ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e25	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e34	Norway is the only country in Europe that has intact high-mountain wild-rein systems. Norway therefore has a great responsibility in international terms to take care of the wild and the natural habitats it relies on. The wild rain population at the Snow Heat is an important part of a unique population such as: only available at the Snow Heat and in Rondane. It differs genetically from other reindeer in Norway. Since the 1970s, the population of snow heat plants has varied from 1500 to 2,500 animals. On 23 March 1999, the Stortinget decided to set up a new field of fire and drill for the Departments of Defence in the East, the Region of the East in Åvet Municipality. The size decided at the same time that the Hierkin shooting range would be closed down, and that the area would be restored and included in the extended protection of Dovrejell. The Bondevik II Government established in 2002 Dovrefjell-Sunndalsjjella National Park, which covers the area around Snøheim. This is Norway’s largest protection area. The Bondevik II government established in 2003 also the Dovre National Park, while expanding the Rondane National Park. Together with the national park Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella and Rondane, the Bondevik II government thus secured a high mountain area from the Sunndals mountains in the north-west to the Ringebu mountain in the south-east. This gives the largest coherent protection area in Europe where wild fauna lives. As a result of the closure of the shooting area, the defense no longer needed Snowheim. On 3 March 2005, Minister for the Environment Knut Arild Hareide decided that the Norwegian Tourist Association should, under given conditions, take over Snøheim and reopen it as a tourist cabin. One of the conditions was that the way into Snøheim should be removed as part of the backlog project for the shooting field. After the closure of the shooting area, a large natural restoration project has been launched with the aim of restoring the site to the most natural state possible. The importance of the wild rein tribe and its habitat on Dovrefjell is a central element in the rationale of the project. There is a great local commitment to this matter. The municipalities of Dovre, Folldal and Oppdal applied for adaptive management of Snøheimveien on 5 March 2007, which the Ministry of the Environment proposed in July 2007. The County rapporteur of Sør-Trøndelag, Tore O. Sandvik of the Workers' Party, addressed the Minister for the Protection of the Environment in August 2007 with a request to postpone the decision on the closure of Snøheimwegen and to commission NINA to launch a five-year research programme for wild fauna, roads and open-air life in the area. The Christian People's Party is committed to making decisions on the basis of knowledge and professional judgement. There is a lot of general knowledge about, among other things. wild rain and disturbances from other mountain areas. The Christian People's Party believes that acquiring specific knowledge from the areas around Snowheim and Snowhatta could contribute to a better decision-making base, and it could also help mitigate conflicts. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that screening of wild fauna, open air and business development based on different scenarios should be carried out when restoring the Hierkin plant. Such monitoring should include, inter alia: consider the land use, the tractive and grazing of the wild rain and the effects of tampering. It is very important that the monitoring and knowledge acquisition start rapidly, so that we can use the period up to the end of 2012 to measure the effects of the re-entry of the shooting field, including the effect of the road. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a majority in the Committee who have joined the comments of the Christian People's Party on the implementation of such a screening project. There are many colleagues in this room who have told their voters that they should work for the road to pass. I regret the fact that the parties to the government cannot participate in a proposal that is similar to the one they are in. But there is a majority in this case to acquire knowledge. I believe that the Government is aware of this, and that one implements the majority's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e55	During this period, the members of the Energy and Environment Committee have gained insight into how other nations, both in Africa and in America, exercise their protection policies and the combination of use and protection. It's been useful. I think we in Norway can be proud of the way we have gradually combined ever-increasing protection of natural areas with a limited and controlled use. The closure of the Hierkin shooting range provided new opportunities for new natural protection gains in the area. A very extensive and high-sounding activity could be reduced to almost zero, and the basis was for what would become Norway’s largest protection area. It is also part of this picture that the local management of natural areas and values can be an example of good governance elsewhere, both for government and for local administration. This is also linked to historical facts, namely that over time the population's life base has been inextricably linked to a balance between the use of nature and the protection of nature. The same has been the case for a gentle tourist and leisure activity for locals and visitors. These include: on this basis that we should understand the unusually broad and strong commitment to continued local management, and in this context the desire to maintain the disputed 14 km Snowheim road into the protection area. There is no need to conceal that we are in a dilemma between the community and the region's strong desire to maintain the Snowheim Road and the recommendations of the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, on the removal of the road. There is no doubt about the conditions under which the Bondevik II Government of the Minister for the Environment, Knut Arild Hareide, laid the foundations for the reopening of the Snowheim cabin. One of these conditions was road closure, implemented in two phases until the end of 2020. This was clearly the reason for the error and the potential for the road to disrupt the return of the area to the most natural state possible. It has, among other things, objections have been raised by local teams to the fact that the road and very strictly regulated traffic there would have an adverse effect on the further good development and adaptation of the wild train in the area. A growing wild reindigenous tribe, even during the literally noisy activities of the Defense Department on and around the shooting range, would suggest that the conclusions are not as obvious as many claim. In Norway, we have received more and more knowledge-based management. I, and the majority, believe that one should carry out further screening and knowledge-gathering, and use the time that one has before the road should possibly be shut down, to just assess and study the impact of the road. The point must be the woe of the wild, and not whether it's a road or not in the area. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for the Environment, in his letter to the Stortinget of 23 November 2007, announced that he would look at the referral from the County rapporteur in the South-Trundellag, who asked for the decision to close the road to be postponed and that research was carried out to clarify the possible effects on the wild rain trunk. The Minister for the Environment then announced in the letter that he would return to this project. This, I think, is a wise and pragmatic approach to a conflict that can achieve a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e78	I think it is good that the Snow Home Road was put on the map again, but I had hoped that the matter would be resolved today. I think that unfortunately is hoping too much. It's a big local, partly national, commitment to the preservation of the road, and I don't think today's decision will make the commitment any less. The municipalities around the National Park have accepted most of the demands that have been made, but I don't think anyone can say that they are satisfied with today's results. It's too little concrete. One thing that may seem unimportant in the debate is the fact that there has been a passage into the area for many generations. Already in 1834, the road to the foot of the Snow Hat was marked on a map. This shows that the road in the shooting area is not only a result of the activities of the defense, but that the road has actually been in use for over 150 years. This also means that by removing the Snow Home Road, you will remove a well-established access that has thus passed for a long time. The arrivals go more or less parallel, and it's probably quite natural that when the new road came in the 1950s, it was the one that was used, not the old one. The standard was better on the new one, and the old one has not been maintained at all since the new one was opened. Deaf municipalities have said in one of their notes that the rights attached to the road have to be investigated, and then on the basis that it is actually as old as it is. I think the Dovre municipality here is concerned with something essential that also needs to be seen as part of the whole. The Progress Party wants to leave all parts of the management of the road to the Dovre Mountain Council or to the Dovre Municipality when the Defence Agency no longer needs to dispose of it. We think it is right, as the Dovre municipality as a local planning authority will of course have respect for the area, and that the district plan for the Hierkin shooting grounds is in all respects in line with the Stortingen assumptions laid down in the decision on the closure of the Hierkin shooting grounds in 1999. In the Address Paper of 8 February this year, the Labour Party leader, Asmund Kristoffersen, stated that there is little doubt that there is a majority on the Stortinget to keep the road. But he also says that it is not common to make big business decisions that instruct his own government. Well, if I haven't been completely wrong, it's actually one of the biggest problems. If the Storting says to the Government that the road should be preserved, then the road should be preserved, it is not worse. I have a hope, and of course I encourage everyone to vote for what they think is right in this case, regardless of party membership, so that we get a decision that documents this majority. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter, but at the same time I would like to ask that the vote be put so that we can vote in favour of the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e101	The representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e104	This conflict reverts to a Document No. Eight proposals made by the Right, through our representatives Burnde, Gundersen and Thommessen, about one over a hundred years old. It's a little funny to see that the core of the battle is 14 km of road that three municipalities, Dovre, Folldal and Oppdal, have applied for to remain in their custody until 2020. At the same time, they have received a no from the Council of State, although there were 15 000 signatures in their community that wanted this way back to the municipalities. Let me just say that important decisions were taken here in 1999. When a shooting range was laid down and another one was created, it provided an opportunity for the Norwegian Tourist Association to take over the cabin at Snøheim. It was an excellent opportunity to get more people to use our amazing nature, and it was a great victory for both the environment and the outdoors in general. No one should be in doubt that the Norwegian Tourist Association is doing an excellent job of facilitating both outdoor life, recreation and nature experiences. That was also why they just took over Snowheim. Overall, Norwegian outdoor life is a very important source of both well-being, health and natural knowledge, and it is part of who we are as Norwegians. Then it is important that the Storting takes decisions that allow us to use our nature as much as possible, but in a gentle way. Among other things, organised by the previous government for much more national parks. The Dovrefjell-Sunndal National Park was established in 2002 and the Dovre National Park was established, while the Rondane National Park was extended in 2003, as two major and important examples. I wish today's Council of State followed it up. It is known that there are several applications for national park status on the Council of State table, but nothing has happened. It was not until the former councillor, Bjørnøy, that the press, among other things. from the right, in the last part of 2006 six national parks were established. Let me just make the big difference between today's government and the previous government. So far during this period, in three years' time, six new national parks have been established, while under the previous government several dozens were created. I believe that today's Council of State cannot be aware of it, and I also ask the Council of State to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for the creation of new national parks, so that we better facilitate the use of our nature. In this context, Snow Home Road plays an important role in enabling people to use precisely this nature. If we want to facilitate foot tourism and peak trips as day trips in this area, this road is also completely inalienable. The question is, what does it have to do with drumming through this decision now without investigating it any further? The proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party is really nothing but a postponement proposal until 2012, when a final decision can be made and one has had the opportunity to get facts on the table. So my question is why today's positions parties, especially with their politicians from the South-Tronde Team, Uppland and Hedmark, are now running away from their vows that they solemnly gave during the election campaign, and at all events have not intended to follow them up in this room. It seems to me to lead the voters behind the light and to run a double morale that the Stortinget that institution is not served with. We should deal with the decisions that are taken, and that should also include promises made to our voters. This is undoubtedly an important matter in the local environment of the three mentioned states, but when we have red-green politicians who are pouring out of an inexhaustible well of promises, it is clear that this is enough a breach of promises, unfortunately. But you still have a couple more hours of the evening to come up with better thoughts and vote for what you've actually said you're for. We have two proposals in the vote, both a compromise proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party and a proposal from the Right, which is our primary position. Finally, let me address the two suggestions I have referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e121	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 3, from the Right, which is included on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e124	In 2003, the Bondevik government created the Dovre National Park, while expanding the Rondane National Park. Together with the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsfjella and Rondane National Parks, the largest continuous protection area in Europe where the wild train lives has been ensured. A large natural restoration project has been launched with the aim of restoring the site to its natural state as much as possible. The importance of the wild rein tribe and its habitat on Dovrefjell is a central element in the rationale of the project. Norway is the only country in Europe that has intact high-mountain systems with populations of wild fauna. Therefore, it is a Norwegian primary responsibility in the international context to take care of the wild rain and the natural habitats it depends on. On the website of the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research, NINA, we read: ‘Norway is the mountain, the wild train is the mountain animal. No species of Norwegian fauna, like the wild reindeer, can mirror the country's awakening after the last ice age. In addition, the wild rain and the people of Europe have a common history that is over 30 000 years old. Thus, the wilderness can be said to be one of Europe’s leading cultural carriers. For this reason, it is both exciting and frightening that we in Norway - as the only Europeans - can bring history forward. However, our remaining wild reindeer populations in the Dovre and southerly mountain areas are largely small and fragmented. Many of the wild areas have been heavily affected by heavy technical interventions from, among others, hydropower, road and rail deployment over the last century, and areas are currently under pressure from a variety of user interests such as cab expansion, tourism and transport. The management of both the wild and the wild-cleaning areas is therefore complicated and involves many different actors.’ An example of how complicated this is is, we get with this case. We see that there is a great local commitment to conserving the Snowheim Road. The ‘Bevar Snøheimwegen’ action has collected more than 15 500 signatures. County rapporteur Tore O. Sandvik has requested the suspension of the decision on the closure of the Snøheimweg and that NINA be given the task of launching a five-year research programme on the wild reindeer stock, road and outdoor life in the area. A little look back: during the planning of the closure of the shooting area, there was a thorough discussion of what was going to happen with Snøheim and the road from Hjerkinn to the tourist cabin. Following a comprehensive treatment round and an overall assessment, the Bondevik II government - which was part of Peter Skovholt Gitmark's party - decided by the then Environment Minister Knut Arild Hareide in a letter of 3 March 2005 that the Tourist Association should, under certain conditions, take over Snowheim and reopen it as a tourist cabin. The conditions were: The relevant building mass at Snøheim shall be transferred to the Norwegian Tourist Association to repair the site of traditional tourist cabin operations in the context of the provisions and purposes of the national park. The cultural historical values of the installation shall be kept in the best possible way. The future operating concept of Snowheim is to assume that there is only summer operation. This means that tourist cabins should be closed in winter and spring to the summer season for the sake of animal life in the area and in particular for the purpose of restoring the areas within the shooting area such as winter and spring pastures and calving areas for the wild rain. The issue of extended opening time shall be considered in the light of the experience and knowledge of the use of wild reindeer in the areas around Snøheim, in particular in the current shooting area. The future operating concept of Snøheim shall not be subject to the establishment of additional tourist cabins in the national park. The way into Snøheim shall be removed as part of the backlog project for the shooting field. The Norwegian Tourist Association may use the road for the transport of materials, etc. in the case of conversion of Snowheim, it is necessary to clarify directly between the Association and the Defence. Overall, these conditions would help to reduce the negative consequences that a re-establishment of Snøheim as a tourist cabin could have for the objective of bringing the shooting field back to natural conditions and thus provide a better basis for a sustainable wild reindeer tribe on Dovreberg. The decision to close the road was thus one of several important elements of an overall assessment and a central part of a compromise between use and protection. DNT has accepted that Snowheim can be operated as a tourist cabin without the Snowheim road. Now, however, we need to acquire specific knowledge from the areas around Snowheim in order to get an even better decision-making base. It writes the parts of the government in the annotation form. Hopefully, this can also help to mitigate some of the conflicts we have heard about during the debate so far. A screening of wild rain, open air and business development based on different scenarios shall be carried out in the case of the return of the Hierkin facilities. Such mapping should, as we write in the setting, among other things. consider the land use, the tractive pathways, the grazing and the effects of tampering. It is important that the mapping and knowledge acquisition start quickly, so that we can use the period up to the end of 2012 to measure the impact of the return of the shooting field, including the impact of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e157	The president has the pleasure of informing Stortinget that there is becoming more and more technology in this old building. Now we've even got the list of speakers on the two big screens. It's come today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e160	Environmental protection is important. It requires different resources and costs money. But to spend 20 million. To dig away, or to remove, the Snow Home Road is a rather useless measure. We're a lot of people who mean it. It is mentioned here that there are 15 000 who have signed that the Snowheim Road should be preserved, and there are also many who have not been given the opportunity to do so. This is simply against common sense. Return is actually also a new operation, and the money, the $20 million. kr, it may not be difficult to find useful use. Today's Environment Minister has inherited this matter from the previous government, and has loyally followed up the views of the then U.S. Councillor Hareide. Hareide decided that the tourist cabin Snowheim could pass, but that the road in there would be removed. I would like to remind you that this matter has been dealt with in Stortinget once before. It's been a while. But in St.meld. No 11 for 1998-1999 on the regional firing range, which also deals with the closure of the Hierkin firing range, says: ‘The level of return to original state must be clarified in consultation with the parties interested in the area. One might assume, for example, that some parties wish to maintain roads, civil installations.» I am aware that the Dovre municipality, as a local planning authority, has not participated in any process either with the Ministry of the Environment or with other governmental bodies in order to achieve some sort of ‘compromise’ about the land use in the shooting area and the future use of the Snowheim Road. In my understanding, this is contrary to Stortinget's intention based on what I just quoted. The municipality has, of course, developed as a planning authority a municipal sub-plan for the Hjerkinn area, specifying that a regulatory plan should be drawn up for the Snøheimwegen and neighbouring areas. The aim of the municipal sub-plan is to maintain the road for regulated movement into the current national park border, which runs approximately. 2 km from Snøheim. I think that's very good, and in parentheses, there's another parallel as it happens at Glitterheim. Otherwise, the municipal sub-plan imposes very strict requirements on the repatriation of the area around Snøheim. The majority of the comments in today's case help to substantiate this. I notice that the majority emphasise that it is important to acquire specific knowledge from the areas around Snowheim, and that it will contribute to an even better decision-making base. The majority further argue that monitoring of wild fauna, open air and business development should be carried out on the basis of different scenarios for the return of the Hierkin plant. Such monitoring should include, inter alia: consider the land use, the tractive tracts, the grazing and the effects of intervention. In addition, the majority of the Committee underlines the importance that monitoring and knowledge acquisition must start rapidly, so that one can use the period up to the end of 2012 to measure the impact of re-entry of the shooting field, including the impact of the road. This is initially good and reassuring reading. I may have to add that if anyone is in doubt about this, the Center Party has worked as hard as they could to make the Snow Home Road pass. As I said, this was good and reassuring reading, but recent statements in the media from political leadership of the Council of State in the Ministry of the Environment have unfortunately contributed to such doubts as to the ministry's intention in the further follow-up to the case. I would therefore like to stress that it is necessary for the Council of State to clarify what is meant. Is it certain that the road is open until the end of 2012? Can we, who believe that the Snowheim Road should exist, be sure of this? The Council of State's response here today will be crucial to what I am going to vote. It might also be indicative, at least for our party, and perhaps also for how other parties deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e185	Let me start by promoting the Left's proposal. This is a strange thing. It started in the snowhouse and ended up in the fog home! It's a strange thing because it started with a crystal clear and well-founded decision. The Bondevik II government, by Minister of Environmental Protection Hareide of the Christian People's Party, decided that DNT would take over Snowheim and reopen it as a tourist cabin. One of the conditions was that the road to Snowheim should be removed. It was a compromise with yes to the cabin and no to the road. Had it been for the road to be kept, I am pretty sure that the Bondevik II government would conclude that one would not reopen the place as a cabin. The decision was duly justified. There was a NINA report showing that road removal will increase the proportion of qualified wild land and have an impact on cleanness. It is also confirmed by the letter received from the Ministry of the Environment in connection with the examination of this matter. In addition, it is emphasised that successful implementation of the project could be an exhibition window for Norwegian nature protection policy. It's not like that, like that. The Christian People's Party representative said that you need a thorough review of this. She thus indicates that the party's own state council had not done so when this case was decided by the Bondevik II government. It was a compromise that was based on a careful scientific assessment that was made. I find it completely incomprehensible that someone is now justifying the proposals that are being proposed today, that there is a need to obtain more information. In addition, it is clearly underlined that the value of obtaining information at a time when this area is undergoing reversal is very limited. The right, which has proposed that the decision to remove the road should be reversed, does not even have time to wait and to obtain information until they reverse what they were doing in their own government. What today's government parties think is completely impossible to understand by the settings that have been presented. It spews from Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who argues strongly throughout his speech that the road should be removed, to the Center Party, who says that the removal of the road is contrary to all common sense. This is the case when the government is to unite the two counterpillars of Norwegian protection policy, namely the SV and the Central Party. The centre party will have a break in protection and was annoyed by the previous government that led an offensive protection policy. What does the Council of State think about this? It's possible to wonder at. The letter given to the Committee by the Ministry of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, is on two sides with a package of good reasons for removing the road. There are two sides with good reasons for the decision taken by the Bondevik II Government. There are two sides with good reason that this could be a project that is noticed beyond the borders of the country. So it ends up with two lines in the end where one says one will look closer at the input that has come from the County rapporteur in the South-Tronde Team. This is very unfortunate because it creates uncertainty in this case, where there was a clear and well-founded decision. I do not understand that a state council that has said that he is tired of cleaning up old environmental sins from previous governments, here zeroes out a balanced, good environmental position and creates full uncertainty in the future. When one hears how the representatives of the Central Party want to use this and almost threatens their own state council today by voting against their own government if they don't get what they want, then one knows what is the goal of those who now want to obtain more information. I believe the Council of State believes what the Left believes. He has today a good opportunity to man up and express a clear view and thus avoid putting into play an important matter in which a decision had been made. I also want to underline the negative in that a case can be reopened this way. This means that one undermines the importance of other protection decisions and indicates that there are opportunities for rematching if one only mobilizes local actors and does as one here has done, to play on the split that is evident in the Government in these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e208	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e211	Let's not forget in this little disagreement in this case that it's basically a cause of joy, that the defense's business on the Hierkin is shut down. A large, significant open-air area, one of the largest we have in all of South Norway, is released and can be completely or far on the way back to its natural state. It's a difficult, nice, nice thing that, regardless of the little disagreement about actually a little tab of this, namely the road, has to stay standing. We must not forget that. The legendary Ringebu rapporteur Erik Winther spoke of one having to get the pebble out of the shoes. With that, I think he thought it's actually pretty nice to go in there, and the little irritation that someone had to feel is like pebbles in the shoes to count in a very, very nice area. That has to be the starting point. So Norway - another part of the starting point - has a very special responsibility to take care of the wild. That responsibility takes the government seriously. The establishment of a wild reindeer on the Hierkin is a visible proof of this. It's part of our international environmental responsibility, but it's also one of the most beautiful animal life in Norway. Whatever the conclusion of the road question itself, it offers a far greater opportunity to take environmental responsibility. So it's true, as the representative Kvassheim said, that the Bondevik II government here came up, obviously was a compromise. It was supposed that you would open the door for the Norwegian Tourist Association to take over Snowheim. There was a compromise between use and protection. But it's part of the story, when you blow yourself up to quite considerable heights above others, that there were just representatives of the Bondevik government who wanted to zero out the compromise that the Bondevik government found, and brought the matter into the Storting. I'm not saying that with irony -- just a little irony -- but at least it does make us think that maybe we should dampen my fellows something in this case. The majority of the Committee considers that the acquisition of specific knowledge from the areas around Snowheim could contribute to an even better decision-making base, and they also believe that it can contribute to the mitigation of conflicts. The majority therefore believe that a screening of wild fauna, open air life and business development based on different scenarios should be carried out in the restoration of the Hierkin facilities. Such monitoring should include, inter alia: consider the land use, the tractive pathways, the grazing and the effects of tampering. It makes no sense to carry out the entire investigation if the conclusion is given in advance. That is why I agree with what is in the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, that we come back to the Storting for final decision on this matter on the basis of the information that this significant work on acquiring more knowledge entails. This does not prevent me personally from being very skeptical about the long-term traffic on this road, and believes that there are very strong reasons why it should be shut down. But there's nothing wrong and negative about compromises, on the contrary, I think it's a pretty big and nice thing that we're able to make compromises in Norway. That there are compromises between the local commitment shown in this case and the considerable protection responsibility that we have, that we now get this done much, much better, and that with more detailed knowledge we see the extent to which this influences the movements and lives of the wild train, must only be of the good. But let me still, since some of the representatives take a bit of the opposite direction, as I see it, just remind me that the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research says that maintaining the road network ‘will result in a permanent continuation of the main adverse effects of the activities of the Defence Agency on animal life in the area and will be likely to enhance this effect when transferred to general and more uncontrollable civil use. Rehabilitation of fixed interference in the form of roads will significantly increase the proportion of qualified wilderness land in the area. In addition, renovation of Snowheim will have a clear positive impact on long-term cleanness. This will ensure the restoration of clean living space and associated qualities corresponding to the condition prior to the establishment of the firing range. Below, an increase in carrying capacity of 10-15 pst could be expected in the long term.». To sum up, I believe that there is every reason to be critical and sceptical about opening this road area. There are good reasons why the consideration of the wild train suggests that the road should be closed for traffic, but there are also all sorts of good reasons for concluding the compromise that this will be thoroughly investigated and that a final conclusion will be reached in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e233	I have to say that I became a little more calm after I heard the council today, but I just want to have a confirmation of what was said. That letter states that ‘within 4 km of the road shall be released during phase I and will be removed by the end of 2012’. Does that mean that those thoughts are put on ice until that investigation is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e240	That means that we need to get a thorough analysis of all of these relationships, and that in parallel to that, we don't do anything that predetermines the conclusion of that investigation. It doesn't make sense to do a lot of research on all aspects of this, and then draw the conclusion in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e245	I also thank the Council of State for a very clarifying statement. There is a back-up process, or a clean-up process, to say it in good Norwegian, throughout the area, which involves a planar intervention around the construction of the road itself. I ask the Council of State to confirm that, when he is now probably giving a message, and I expect it to come quite soon, it also makes it clear that it means that the interventions involved in this road section itself are taken out of the plans that exist - that is, that the road should be, we should say, possibly operational if such conclusions were to be reached in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e252	I don't now have a full overview of all the details of this, but it doesn't make sense to ask researchers and others to investigate and look at all the aspects of this and see to what extent the path has a significant impact on the wild rain, if you have determined in advance what the conclusion is. It has to be open. I guess the answer is yes. You can't make irreversible changes in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e257	In the letter sent to the Committee by the Ministry of Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, more than two sides argue that the road should be removed. Finally, the Council of State says on two lines that one should come back to this matter after it has been further evaluated. Is that what the State Council today is doing in Stortinget? He came back to the case after it has been further assessed, and concludes that yes, there is uncertainty about the decision to remove the road, because a five-year investigation project is now to be launched, where the outcome is completely open. So he's moved far in relation to what's in the letter to the committee, and it's a dramatic change in an important environmental issue - not a very small environmental issue. I am very surprised at what the Minister for the Environment says in the letter to the Committee that it has very limited value to obtain new information at a time when this area is undergoing rehabilitation, and thus disrupt the normal activity, when he found that there is such an ingenious solution in a difficult matter for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e262	Compromises are almost never brilliant. It has taught me a long life. Very often it is that blowing the hook and fanfare is not something you do after compromise, but often a compromise is the most sensible solution in a matter. What we come up with here today is, as I see it, a compromise between my and Left's desire for a maximum protection area with the least possible intervention, and what I am registering here from many in Oppland, South-Trundellag and More and Romesdal, and from a broad majority in Stortinget, a desire for more knowledge of this, more knowledge of how road, car traffic and more people in the area are working on the wild. You want more knowledge before a final decision is made. The fact that a compromise is reached between the will to protect, which the Left and the SV definitely have, and the interests of others, I do not see as a negative. That's something we can just be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e269	I think the Council of State has been reasonably clear, but we just have to remove any doubt: can the Council of State now guarantee that this matter will be submitted to the Stortinget so that the Stortinget can take the decision, so it will not just be such that the Council of State, after obtaining the knowledge, takes a decision that remains standing without the Stortinget being allowed to say anything more in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e275	If Ketil Solvik-Olsen can guarantee that I am the Minister for the Environment in 2012, I will guarantee back that it will!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e280	This is a joyous day, with which the Council of State initiated its inauguration. I think he was significantly better when he read from the letter from the Ministry of the Environment - but it is now. It says that the value of re-establishing this area is high in nature and in animal life. It also states that this will be a return project that could attract international attention and interest. Does the Council of State not fear that today's government is creating uncertainty in this area and that this will lead to the opposite, namely that it will be wondered whether this government will continue the policies of the previous government for these important natural areas? I also want to challenge the Council of State on what transfer value this may have for other matters. Does this mean that it is free for new rematches and in other protective matters only it serves the great art of making good compromises, which seems to be superior to the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e287	Without being overly polemic, but since the representative repeats and repeats that we are changing what the Bondevik government agreed to, let me remind you that this is a case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party. There were representatives from the Right who brought the matter before Stortinget. So those with whom compromises are made are at least the representatives of the Bondevik government in the matter - so that's what they say. Otherwise, I agree that bringing this area back to its natural state as much as possible is very important. It doesn't just stand and fall with this little thing. That's why I started by saying that this is a fantastic, joyous and beautiful thing, regardless of what you think about the Snowheim Road. Getting the shooting range out and getting this area back so much is brilliant. Then I would have liked to see that we had today concluded the debate on the Snowheim Road by shutting it down, but I see no big problem in that we are making this compromise, which has broad support in the Storting, and for which there is a strong desire in the community. We now get to know more about Kvassheim and I are right, or if others are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e294	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e299	It's a little sad today for those who are fighting to preserve the Snow Home Road on Dovreberg. Unfortunately, the proposal of the Progress Party to reverse the decision on the removal of the Snowheim Road falls. And then we'll see what happens in 2012. As a former professional officer, I have been to Hjerkinn in connection with my job many times, and I know the area, nature, animal life and Snowheimvegen fairly well. I don't think it's going to keep this road at approx. 14 km, to the great delight of many users who had otherwise had problems using nature here, in some way would harm animal life or nature in general in this large natural area. While the defense was at Hjerkinn, there was great military activity, not only by Norwegians, but also by foreign troops. They used all the Brains as a good place to practice, and the area provided opportunities for, among other things. shooting with large and small weapons and the use of small and large vehicles. It gave possibilities for large exercises of different lengths. Even bombers were trained here. Despite all this activity, it turned out that the amount of animals was large and growing. It didn't seem like the animals got mentioned plague of all the fighting at their time. Clean and musk went side by side with warring soldiers. At the same time, there was an ordinary hunt for the time of the year when this was allowed. That after the defense has gone out, you're going to spend a lot of money, maybe 20 million. To remove a road that is there and has been there for almost 200 years is difficult for me to understand. It is okay and not least good that it was cleaned up after the defense, and that as much as possible goes back to what nature once was. But removing this path and thus also removing the quality of life for some will be totally wrong. When this is also against the wishes of the municipality and local democracy, ‘maladministration’ becomes the word that remains. Therefore, the road must pass so that the area can be used by all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e310	I agree with Erik Solheim that this is a happy day, primarily in relation to the enormously important protection measure behind it. In addition, I was a little happy when I heard Erik Solheim clarifying what would be the follow-up of this case, after a somewhat vague setting. Rightly, I may perceive that Erik Solheim and I have different views on what should be the conclusion in this case, but at least we are some of them that there should now be a trial period until 2012, where a necessary knowledge of the consequences for the wild rain if the Snowheim Road exists. Then I underline what Solheim himself said, that then the conclusion should not be given in advance. Then it might as well be the second conclusion. As referred to in the proposal and in the vote, Dovrefjell-Sunndalsjjella National Park is Norway's largest protection area. Hoping with Rondane, this is the largest protection area in Europe where the wild train lives. With the resolution of the Dovre shooting field, the living conditions of the wild train have been significantly improved. That's what's the big and important measure that we're a few about, and that people live in the region around are also some about. It's superior to ensuring the biological deficiency and the ecological natural system. Then I have to say that when this is done, why does the Snow Home Road, which in this context is likely to have minimal significance for the survival capabilities of the wild train, have to be removed? I think I have to use the same words as Solheim did when he referred a former supervisor in Ringebu and spokesperson Erik Winther: if we're going to get people with us and understand one thing, we have to remove pebbles in our shoes. With that in mind: when we have come to understand that it is necessary to take the great deal of action to protect that area, why then come up with proposals and measures of a de minimis nature that simply provoke the opposite? The removal of the Snow Home Road is such an irritant measure. It's actually 15,500 who have signed that they're going to keep the Snowheim Road. That must mean something. We can't arrogantly ignore it and say that the county council and the people who react here don't know. Throughout history, people in the region have lived both by nature and by nature, and of course they have no interest in destroying nature - nor the tourism industry, which has no interest in telling of the green branch on which they are sitting. That is why I am very pleased that Solheim has made clear in this debate what will be the follow-up of the Snøheimvegen-saka in the future, and we will get back to it in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e325	At Dovre, reindeer animals have lived by highways, European roads, railways, armoured carriages and low-flying bombers for all years, and the animal population has only increased. This is the big community that has arranged for. But now that the military disappears, it is suddenly the local people who are considered a possible harm in the future. The big community and environmental management deprive us of the rural people's right to decide in our own village. We say we want people in the villages. We want to strengthen local democracy, we say. We want light in the windows, as it's called fun in the center partition entrance, but what do you do? Well, you run over the local population on every occasion. The builders are needed to preserve nature. It goes wrong if we forget about feelings and values, and the practice of the rural people living in the pact with nature and the landscape in the countryside. Respect and nuanced understanding of the local population’s potential as nature managers is little present in the environmental management’s value base and practices. The environmental management and the so-called environmentalists regard us people in rural areas to a great extent as harms, and they deprive us of the right to self-determination of our own rural areas. Unfortunately, this is the case after the case with regard to something that is too built. Finally, it could be a little fun to come up with a little spatiness. They've been talking about pebbles in these shoes. Little stone gets one when a walk on a gravel road, as this road is today. Maybe we should pave this way after the 2009 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e338	I had actually written a cracking good post that I now have to put aside after listening to the debate here. First of all, I am pleased with the clarification from the Minister for the Environment. He now says clearly that we are going to have a research project, and that the road will pass until it is clear. That's exactly what the three municipalities applied for. None of the municipalities applied for permanent protection of the road, as some try to present it. Nor is it what the Progress Party says, that the Action Group wants permanent protection of the road. On the contrary, they have been on the line of the municipality and wanted knowledge about it. So it is also that very much of the cleaning work that is done must continue. We can't stop that. It's also the way that most of the roads in the area go. So there are some things that are kind of unsound in the debate, I think. Just to take a brief history as a small answer to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark: it was the locals who initiated the expansion of Rondane National Park. It was the local municipalities that wanted a national park around the Snowhetta area and Sunnmørsfjella. Fortunately, local government has been in order. It was not given that it would be easy. There was a lot of noise back locally in all eight municipalities and four county municipalities when the project started. However, a management plan has been put in place, so that all local authorities have a common understanding of the benefits of protection. It is also the case that all eight local authorities have fully completed their work on the management plan that has now been adopted. It is also a management plan of which the Ministry of Environment has boasted a lot. Only as a discretion can I say that Rondane National Park still has no overall management plan - that's the state's responsibility - and it's been there since 1968. So it's not always like local government and local people don't do their job. I think that's why we got the huge commitment around the Dovrejell plateau with over 15,000 signatures. There are more signatures in that campaign than there are people living in the three municipalities who applied for adaptive management. So it's been a huge commitment, and it's very good. I don't think I've seen the same commitment in that area since there was a discussion about the closure of the mine and what we were going to use the facility there. At the time, 5,000 environmentalists arrived and were to march on the Snow Roof in protest against special storage waste. It was in the middle of the reincalving. So we all have something to learn from time to time. It's referenced to Erik Winther. I'm not going to help make him a great prophet today, but he really has a lot to tell everyone about error management. Much of the knowledge he has built up from the mid-1970s until now has been transferred to the four administrative responsibilities of the four wild reindeer tribes in the area. There is a great local pride in how we have managed our wild reindeer tribe, and I don't think any of these municipalities want a decision on this matter that goes beyond the wild reindeer. That is why we also want a research project.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e351	Good nature protection is about trust. We've had a debate on environmental protection, climate, on the really big issues facing the globe in earlier days, in six rigid hours. What are they really about? Well, they're about uprisings in the population, they're about uprisings in democracies that give signals of where you want to go. Then you have to know about, and you have to trust. We are getting knowledge about ourselves quite slowly and safely, more and more. Trust is about being faced with a political system where you feel you are being listened to, and where you feel that you are part of a whole. In the communities, which we are talking about now, there is a genuine desire for knowledge. It is a genuine desire to take responsibility, and I also believe that the municipalities at the northern end of Gudbrandsdalen have so absolutely taken responsibility through their involvement in both protective plans, municipal plans and in other ways. There's nothing in the way they work, which would mean that you don't have confidence in strengthening local government. Then it is very positive that the Council of State at this crossroads chooses to listen, chooses to stretch out a hand and give trust. It will be noticed, and it will enhance awareness of environmental protection in a good way. We're talking about small communities, a few thousand inhabitants in each of these municipalities. It's actually, I think, per. today 15000-16500 who have signed. That means that there are people with outdoor interests far, far beyond these municipalities who have engaged. In these municipalities, environmental protection is about much more than just questions of -- I had just said -- outdoor life, or the birds or reindeer that are there. These are the assumptions and framework conditions for the existence of municipalities. Then it is important that, in the planning processes that are being carried out, we bring competence into a broader horizon than I think we are doing today. We also see that a discussion about the protection plan around Rondane National Park is going to be the next crossroads. Then we see that economic interests, outdoor interests in more -- what to say -- sporting sense has a rather small base of competence compared to the bodies that have investigated this in advance. We should do something about that. Although I would like to have a final decision on the Snowheim Road today, I read this as a joyous day, having confidence that the Council of State will carry out what he has signaled, and that we now have a postponement of the procedures on the Snowheim Road until 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e385	I would like to begin by stressing the satisfaction of the very clarifying contribution made by the Minister for the Environment. Of course, we are very happy that it came. So it's important to say that it's very bad if this is to be made a question of whether you're for or against wild. I also believe that the Minister for the Environment was very wise when he said that in the big picture there is a great deal of consensus. Now, there's a consensus that there's going to be hundreds of million dollars to clean up after the defense's activity. There is a consensus that most of the road system should be restored. It's just this know-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it. Otherwise, as I said, there is a great deal of agreement that the conditions for the wild train need to be significantly improved. Nor can there be any doubt that the conditions of the wild train must improve much in the future, regardless of the solution to this problem, when the defence ceases its activity, when it removes the pollution that has occurred over decades, and when it removes a large part of the road network. That's why it's very bad that the representative Kvassheim uses this opportunity to increase the level of conflict, to create a greater distance between the feeling you're having locally, and the need for Kvassheim to mark its own policy. Just the fact that it was the Christian People's Party and the Right who raised this question shows that there is no simple answer related to what is good environmental protection, and what is not. On the contrary, I would like to say that I believe that too many people in this area are just the love of the area, the love of nature, and not least of the wilderness that makes you interested in planning to get in and out of the area. That's why, I think, so many people have engaged. If this path goes away, it'll go away, for example. be such that it becomes difficult to get on a day trip, and it will make the snow heat, national mountain, inaccessible. The mountain that is almost mythical in Norwegian culture, it will no longer be possible to visit people who are not spoken. Now we're going into an investigation job, and it's important not to draw the conclusion in advance. I agree with that, and I would also like to see the basis for the order that the Ministry of the Environment will make when they address research institutions. Tore O. Sandvik refers to NINA. The person who has been most involved in wild reindeer research where, Per Erdhøj, withdrew from a project in which Børge Brende was the director, the ‘Willreinfangsten as World Heritage’, protesting that the proposal was promoted. I think it is good to challenge who has made a clear decision on what should be the answer. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] I expect that we'll put an open mind to the ground there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e401	The President reminds me of the term of the term of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e404	This is one thing that engages locally, we do. It is also a matter of engagement in this Chamber, as this debate has shown. The representative of Kvassheim had a little visit to me in his post. Let me make it clear to the representative of Kvassheim: Minister for the Environment Knut Arild Hareide did a good job in 2005 when he took his decision on the basis of the facts that existed in 2005. But we've been talking about another case and the facts there for six hours today. When it turns out that the facts we used in 2005 and have used in the past are from other areas in Norway where we have lost our way, and not explicitly so, the Christian People's Party wants to gain knowledge about the living conditions of the wild train in this area, and then use it for further work. I would also like to comment on Breen's posts in relation to the creation of national parks, especially Dovre. I think it was a very special approach. There is no doubt about which government established the Dovre National Park. It was Bondevik II. But I think we should now raise our eyes a little bit and make this matter what it's about, that we now want to acquire new knowledge and then move on a few steps. The Council of State confirms in its statement that it wishes to follow the observations made by the majority to launch a survey. It's very nice, because I think in a little bit of difficult things it's just through compromises that we can move on. Therefore, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will convert their proposal into a transmission proposal, with the confidence that he will follow up, and that we will be presented with the matter in the autumn 2012 session. Hopefully some of us will be sitting here then, and we will be ready to take the debate on the further development of this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e415	The representative, Line Henriette Holten Heimdal, has now moved on to proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e418	Just until the last one: I tried not to doubt that it was the Bondevik II government that decided to set up the National Park. My point was that there was an extremely strong local commitment to get it to. It was a ten-year job in advance that was at the bottom of the Bondevik II government's decision. That was my point. There were a few things I wasn't going to say in my first post. One is that I would like to ask the Minister not only to focus on the wild train when making a mandate for a research project, but to have a larger whole in relation to the environmental aspect by road or not. For one thing that's been claimed by the municipalities, if you take the road away, it'll be easier to reach the four peaks of snow heat from other areas than the Hierkin. This will mean that we get a channelling of the movement that is different from today. There's also a reason to think that a lot of it will come from the Dredal side or the Fox tumours, because it's easier to go that way. In the Drivdalen there is a large concentration of musk, which has some problems around it, especially because there is a lot of deciduous forest there. It's not entirely harmless. Bredvold talked about people and musk having gone side by side. I don't want to recommend it. It's just very dangerous. But what I'm asking is whether you can design the mandate for the research project a little bit wider than just for the wild train, that you also look at the channelling of traffic, because it has been successful in Rondane for the management of the wild train. That's the one point. The second point is that I record that the Left is very pleased with the compromise reached between the Bondevik II government and the Norwegian Tourist Association, although there was a clear breach of the majority in the Stortinget in connection with St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99. It stated explicitly that what was going to happen to the road was going to have a local political anchor. It didn't happen, and that's probably the basis for the extreme engagement around the Dovrejell plateau when the case came up. I'm recording that the Left thinks it's a completely right way of working. It is good to know for the voters that majority decisions in the Grand Duchy do not really need to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e427	The day in Stortinget today started with the treatment of the climate announcement, which the Progress Party was one of the few who were satisfied with. There, the Left has helped to further develop the policy, so that we have a climate policy platform with which the Progress Party is not so pleased. The day ends with an environmental issue in which the Bondevik II government made a decision with which the Progress Party was not satisfied, but which has an outcome, as the Minister for the Environment today formulated what the Progress Party is among the most satisfied. It is an important point that the decision of the Bondevik II Government was well justified on a professional basis and that it was a compromise. So that's what the state council said he should do in such cases: give different weights. This decision stood behind all the former government parties and followed up loyally while one was in government. I therefore share the concern of the Minister for the Environment that the Christian People's Party and the Right take a different position when they do not cooperate so closely with the Left and ensure a good environmental policy in government. I see no good reason for what the Right and Christian People's Party has done, but I record that they have changed their position. Then I also register today that the Central Party has carried out a pinching maneuver that has put the Minister for the Environment in a difficult situation, where he must conclude in violation of what is clearly his opinion, and he creates full uncertainty in an area where there was an important clarification. So Ola Borten Moe says that now it's going to be investigated without a drawing the conclusion in advance. But there is no doubt about who directed what we are now witnessing. Well, there are those who are absolutely sure that they know today that the road should stay, and among them is Inger S. Enger, who has said that removing the road is against any sense. And so Ola Borten Moe is going to make us think that his party has not concluded in this case. There were doubts about the recommendation given by NINA. I can then show that the Director of NINA's research has made it clear that the advice given in 2002 is still available, and that the advice is that the road should go away, because having the road network, including the route it is about today, will be to continue the main damage effects of the defence activity in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e440	I think it is very surprising that the representative Kvassheim does not agree with the positive that large parts of Dovre are being brought back partly to areas that are far better suited to wild rain than what has been the case in the past, that activity stops, and that overall we are doing much better for the wild rain than what we have done in a very, very long time. Then, of course, there's a balance between human activity and the presence of the wild train. Now, E6 is also going over Dovre, the Dovre track is going over Dovre, and if you're going to have a fundamental approach to these questions, you should have started to discuss those facts. Then I would like to say that while I was on the Energy and Environment Committee, I was with the head on a trip abroad and looked at the national park administration there. What characterized all of these trips was that they went per. bus, on the road into the national parks. So the fact that you have transport veins into a protected area doesn't have to destroy the protection values, rather the opposite, and I'm going to think that one of the reasons we were on these trips was actually that we were going to learn and attract knowledge about new ways to do things. So to NINA. It's already done a lot with regard to wild rain and activity on the Dovre and Snowheim road, and I want to draw up a little quote -- it's from a report that's made to the Defense: ‘Insulatedly, the road body itself is not the major problem for the clean, but what it had to generate from disruptive movement. It must be pointed out that even a closed road will have a real, unpredictable disruption potential under a civil/local management than a clean road.’ So, what you're afraid of from the NINA side is not that the road is there, but what a local administration regime might have to think about in terms of passage into the area. It further underlines my point that there is a need to acquire knowledge and in the light of the knowledge provided by a management regime that also ensures the interests of the wild. At least that would have been my starting point. But I am not the one to write this wild report, and that is, of course, the Storting, the Minister for the Environment has said, which is to draw the final conclusion. So I'm going to think that the new knowledge that will then be acquired is going to benefit this whole room, and then you're going to have to make a final decision in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e454	Just to confirm a few of the things that have come to pass at the end of the debate: I'll of course go into carefully who is to be asked to make various reports about this, of which Borten Moe and Breen were concerned. There's every reason to look at the larger picture, because that's the total protection of natural values that we're concerned with. Then I want to at the end of the debate maybe be a little bit philosophical, or whatever you're going to call it. We have a series of issues that various circles in Norway are trying to bring to a confrontation between what one might call environmental interests and more traditional urban interests. It's about predators, it's about Trillemarka, this case -- we have a lot of such cases. I think we're all good at trying to find ways to mitigate the conflicts in these cases. At least I'm absolutely convinced that we're getting a lot, a lot more protection if we do it in a way that makes the vast majority of people in District Norway participate in this, see the benefits of it and not the disadvantages. And we must not forget the main picture in this matter, in spite of the small disagreement here. The main picture is that a large area is now protected in a completely different way. No matter what you think about the road, the road is not a field of fire. So there's a completely fundamental difference in that, and that's the positive in this case. Dovreberg will in a completely different way be a natural area. But I feel like we're a little bit in the mind box, and we should think about someone and everyone not to maximize these conflicts, and we should think about what we can do to make a larger part of District Norway see the benefits of protection. We are going into a situation where we certainly have to count on reductions in some of the traditional forms of regional aid that have been operated in Norway, such as agricultural aid, as a result of the World Trade Organisation and other measures. Different forms of protection give rise to a large potential flow of income to the future of District Norway. It is very important for many other places in Europe, and it will almost certainly be more important in Norway as well. And different forms of protection are something that many people are proud of, that gives tourists income and many other things. We have now come close to a competition between municipalities that want to be declared a national park municipality. It's an example that protection has ended up being positive, something you're proud of, something that can give you income, and something that's nice and beautiful. I'm looking to see how we can reduce these conflicts, which at the end of the day makes both District Norway get worse financially, and we get less protection in Norway. So let's have an idea of how to find better solutions for this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e463	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2338]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e478	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e493	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Sortevik, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Per Sandberg, who has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e504	On behalf of the President-in-Office, Per Sandberg, I will refer the matter to the representatives of Borghild Tenden, Odd Einar Dørum and Trine Skei Grande on measures to combat fraud and fraud and organised crime in the taxi industry. The proposers shall submit the following proposals: ‘1. The Government is asking the central government to instruct the taxi centres to store all shunting and driving data for 10 years and to make them available to official control authorities.2. The decision requests the Government to impose an obligation on the holders of rights to be associated with a taxi centre.3. The decision requests the Government to carry out multi-car ownership tests.’ The Committee has carried out an open consultation in its examination of the proposal. The majority of the Committee, all except the member from the Left, records that the proposers are launching three implementing measures, irrespective of the work undertaken in a multi-departmental cooperation. The Ministry of Transport has had the matter for its opinion. The Ministry refers, as regards storage and reporting obligations, to the fact that the centres are often owned by the perpetrators, and that this may create instability conflicts that lead to the establishment of more external supervision of the activities of the central banks. With regard to central connectivity, the Ministry points out that it is the privilege authority, i.e. the counties and the Municipality of Oslo, which determines this today, and not least that such obligation of connection has already been determined for most cities and agglomerations. With regard to the launch of multi-car ownership tests, the Ministry points out that this is already permitted under the existing legislation and that several licensing authorities have practised this without the Ministry having any indication that practices have provided users of taxi services with a better offer. The Progress Party refers to the clearly expressed desire and willingness of the taxi industry itself to clean up practitioners who do not comply with legal requirements or rules and norms in each central bank. The Progress Party underlines the urgent need for industry to demonstrate to both the public and public authorities that the industry operates in good and safe transport, provides good and safe service and remains safe and secure within the applicable laws and regulations. The Progress Party underlines the importance of a comprehensive package of instruments for tackling the identified issues and that this minimum includes provisions that enable the centres and industry themselves to clean up their own situation. The progress party assumes that this can be done quickly. The Progress Party refers to repeated references to the need for modernisation and overall review of the framework conditions of the taxi industry. The industry, in our view, is subject to old-fashioned regulations, is not adapted to free nutrition and flexible operation in line with local demand and local market needs. The lack of modernisation helps to hinder the effective and lawful exercise of the profession and recruitment. The Progress Party indicates that this is mentioned in the State budget for 2007, by the Ministry itself in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, chap. 5.10 Regulation of the taxi industry. The 2007 budget outlines and clarifies the need for the modernisation of the Professional Transport Act, and states in that budget that the Ministry will continuously assess measures. Taking into account that no action has been taken to meet the needs and challenges identified by the industry itself, I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the suspension:‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a complete review of the framework conditions in the taxi industry and to provide the Storting with appropriate measures such as: (a) ensuring the safe operation of the law; (b) ensuring the flexibility and market adaptation of free and modern business; (c) ensuring a modernised professional transport law.’ Finally, let me point out that, both during the hearing and outside the hearing, there have been some objections and comments from the industry itself to the three points in the proposal that this matter concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e549	The representative of Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e552	In view of the tax evasion problem in the taxi industry, the government has now started work on several of the ministries to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat offences in the permissive transport sector, including the taxi industry. Action is being taken to increase the risk of detection and improve the possibility of rapid response, for example: in the form of withdrawal of a licence or driving licence. The government is also working to improve the exchange of information between the different authorities, so that enforcement of the legislation becomes more effective. By imposing on the tax authorities an obligation to disclose information to the privilege authorities if they are made aware of matters relevant to the operation of taxis, the privilege authorities will also be able to respond more easily with withdrawal of the right. Consequently, the consequences of tax exemptions for taxi owners will also increase when they are at risk of being granted a right of withdrawal. It is the police who manage the right to drive taxis through the driving order. The government is also working on the creation of a central banknote register. This will increase the effectiveness of police work in the collection and seizure of driving passes. Other measures The Government is working on, is to coordinate control work in respect of taxi operations, to raise awareness of industry regarding the applicable legislation on the withdrawal of licences or driving licences and to introduce requirements for the taximeter. Many of these measures have also been requested by the industry itself. There is reason to be concerned about the development of the taxi industry in some of our metropolitan areas. It is therefore positive to focus on this, including through this proposal for a representative. Of course, it is unacceptable that losses are made and that taxes are avoided. But it is also important to remember that the taxi industry is diverse. The problems in big cities are very different from those in the districts. It is therefore necessary, in the opinion of the undersigned, to exercise local control. I now believe that the City Council in Oslo and other local permissions authorities that see these kinds of challenges, in the future their responsibility is conscious and creates a good taxi industry in their areas. Driving taxis must again be attractive - drossa must be a good offer to the local population. An example of a negative development is that of the Oslo City Council in the 1990s, when the City Council proposed to increase the number of permits by more than 400. This was not adopted. What was adopted, on the other hand, was a proposal from Trine Skei Grande to increase the number of taxi runs in Oslo by 300. This also happened in a situation where the main aerodrome moved from Fornebu to Gardermoen, and the taxi would no longer be the first choice for travelers by aircraft. So Oslo now has over twice as many permits per year. As with other major cities in Europe, it is natural to compare with this. This has led to a poor performance situation for owners and employees. In addition, the quality of customers has been reduced. A situation in which taxi drivers cannot expect to have a normal income without working large parts of the day makes it very difficult to build a healthy industry. It is therefore necessary that Oslo Municipality, as a privilege authority, do more to clean up the Oslo industry. In my opinion, by avoiding this development, we have helped to develop an unculture. At the hearing, the Oslo Transport Workers' Association informed the Committee that a joint taxi regulation had been put in place for all taxi operators in Oslo. It was stated in the hearing that this could have been used to withdraw rights in the event of a breach and to create a new and common standard. We can only record that this work has been still since August 2007. I would like to make an urgent call for all good forces now to help clean up that situation. I think, as opposed to Sortevik, that the solution to the problem is not more release and a freer nutrition exercise, but that we need more control and more follow-up to be able to build a good and healthy taxi industry in the capital and in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e569	I thought for a moment that I had ended up in the wrong room, namely in the City Council in Oslo, after hearing the comments of the representative Wickholm, who cheesed a little frustration over again to sit in a minority in Oslo City Council - but I'm going to let it pass. I understand that the representative of Wickholm's solution is regulation, tightening up the liberalisation that has been, and turning taxi into a scarcely good thing again, with long queues - with the problems that this entails. At least the right is pleased with the focus that has now been put on cheating, cheating and criminal relationships in the taxi industry. The consultation on this proposal for a representative has also made it clear that the industry is serious about the matter, that they are prepared to clear up their own ranks, but also that there is a need for clearer laws and rules to restore the reputation of the taxi industry. The market economy itself wants changes in order to have full control of taximeters, and changes that can contribute to greater transparency and transparency. In the last issue of the trade journal TAXI - which was on my shelf today - there is a small attachment: Ethical guidelines for the Norwegian Taxi Federation - it is so little that it is possible to have a breast pocket. It shows that the industry is now willing to exercise self-justice, and that there is now a strong focus on preventing similar situations that we have seen in Oslo. At the same time, the Government announces a review of legislation and laws relating to the taxi industry. A broad majority of the Committee points out that the Ministry of Transport underlines the appropriateness of the instruments in place to facilitate the control tasks of different authorities in relation to industry, is now being assessed in the context and implemented as an overall package. This is a tragic matter because it affects an entire industry. Of course, there are many serious practitioners in the taxi industry. Much indicates that the seriousness has begun to tell the whole industry, that one will end the culture, and that one will restore the reputation of the industry. In short, it means that you have to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. It's the most important thing. That's why I'm positive that the rules and the special conditions that characterize the taxi industry are now being reviewed. But first of all, we have to make a moral appeal to that part of the industry that is unprofessional, to sharpen itself, to follow Norwegian laws and regulations - and also hope that the police have the resources to straighten out the matters that have now been revealed. It is tragic that as extensive a crime as the one discovered in Oslo could last for many years before it was revealed. Tragic is the case when the police in Oslo almost publicly announce that they lack the resources to investigate new issues that might have to arise in the taxi industry. The right has sympathy for the Left's proposal in this matter, but given that the Government is notifying a broad review of the laws and regulations, we choose to attach the matter to the protocol. When I said that, I was a little worried after hearing the representative Wickholm – who was speaking in my form in large parts of the post – because it seemed as if it were notifying the review of the laws and regulations almost meant that a person would go back to old conditions with taxi monopoly – to do that, as I said instead, a taxi to a scarce good. I am very pleased with the liberalisation that has been of the taxi industry, because someone like the customer - and it is actually the customer who is the most important for the taxi industry - has the opportunity to get a cab when you need it. The fact that there has been competition in the industry is initially positive. But the fact that someone chooses to cheat, that someone chooses to reduce taxes, that someone chooses to commit criminal acts, is something that can happen in many industries. It cannot be claimed that the individual has poor income, etc. If it were to be that people with poor income chose to commit criminal acts to get butter on the bread, we would have been in a hopeless situation. Therefore, I hope that the review that has now been announced does not mean a tightening of the liberal attitude that has taken place in connection with the establishment of taxi centres recently, but rather a clear and clear indication that there is a regulatory framework to be followed, that there is a need for regulatory changes to facilitate transparency and that taximeters are subject to stricter controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e586	The Christian People's Party will commend the proposers for a rapid response to the major problems faced by the taxi industry in Oslo in complying with the laws and regulations governing the pursuit of the business. There have been very unfortunate conditions in the taxi industry in the capital for several years. Tax evasion, social security abuse and breaches of accounting laws are some of the illegalities that have been discovered but appear to continue without adequate sanctions by the authorities. This damages the taxi industry, and it damages the people's sense of justice. Here, there is a need for both short-term and long-term measures. In the short term, there is a need for faster and consistent responses to obvious abuse of the right, and in the longer term, the entire legislation relating to taxi runs must be considered. There are longer-term measures proposed in this proposal for a representative. The Christian People's Party is committed to tightening up the Professional Transport Act, which is very general, in order to provide clearer guidance and stricter requirements for local licensing authorities. Furthermore, the requirements for taxi centres need to be tightened up, which is something the industry is concerned with. Furthermore, there should also be stricter criteria to allow the driving of a taxi. Both control procedures and the sanctioning system need to be improved. It may well be asked whether more should not be required of drivers, for example: mandatory rates on different aspects of having a driver’s voucher and what it implies by obligations and rights. And especially important is the increased risk of detection of crime. Perhaps we should consider introducing a separate control body for the industry? In this way, it is more effective to identify breaches of the rules and to check how the rights are actually exercised. Moreover, I would like to give my full support to reflecting the principle of professional secrecy, so that the NAV and the Equation Service could be required to inform the Licensing Authority in serious cases. I also expect the Government to assess the possibility of withdrawing taxi licenses without a judgment against the holder of the license. Then I must also comment on a very surprising remark from the government parties, where they criticise Oslo City Council for the increase in the number of permits in Oslo and at my discretion use it as an excuse for the crimes committed. I quote: ‘This majority believe that a situation in which taxi drivers cannot have a normal income without working large parts of the day makes it difficult to build a healthy industry.’ It is not the number of taxis in Oslo that are responsible for the unhealthy nature of the industry. There must never be any doubt that the individual perpetrator is responsible for complying with the law, and that is where it fails whether there are many or few taxis in the market. I hope that this remark from the government parties is a mistake and not an expression of what they think is the main cause of the detected offences in the taxi industry in Oslo. The Christian People's Party has a strong sense of the proposals launched in the proposal, but at the same time it is very important that we now have an overall assessment of the size of various measures that can be taken to create clear driving rules and strengthen control of the taxi industry. According to the Minister's response to the Committee, this is very complicated and involves several departments. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that a work has been started in the Government in which several departments cooperate for measures that can facilitate the control of the taxi industry. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is appropriate that the instruments in place to facilitate the control tasks of different economic authorities be assessed in the context and implemented as an overall package. We therefore vote in favour of the vote that the draft representative from the Left should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e610	The threshing industry in Oslo is struggling with trust problems after the discovery of tax fraud and several criminal acts. Dry-nutrition has come in a bad light. As always in such situations, a few are unfortunately ruining the large majority of people who are feeding in a legal way. The threshing industry takes responsibility itself and shows great willingness to clean up. It is also very positive that a multi-departmental effort has been undertaken to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat crime in the permissive transport industry, with a particular focus on the taxi industry. It is with some wonder that it is noted that this proposal for a representative has specific measures, regardless of what actions the departments together with the Municipality of Oslo and the taxi industry themselves come up with. The left will include: establish an obligatory link to a taxi centre. It would be to withdraw the delegated image that the individual municipalities and the municipality of Oslo currently have to decide whether or not to associate with a central government. When testing multi-car-owners, it is already allowed within the current legislation. Such attempts have also been practised without a holding point to say that it has given users of taxi services a better supply. The centre party wants to await its work before concluding. The central party sees that the challenges for the industry are lacking. The challenges in cities are not necessarily identical to the challenges in the districts. It will always be important to look at the causes of unculture and crime. Often there will be more and more causes. When a person is aware of any reasons, it is very important to take action to address the negative developments. It is a fact that after suggestions from the Left Party, the Municipality of Oslo decided to increase the number of taxis by 31 pst. -at a time when maybe it wasn't natural to have an increment of your moving the main airfield from Fornebu to Gardermoen and getting less needed for taxi transport. The result of this increase in the number of permits is poorer ignition for the owners and those added to the taxi industry, and unfortunately the quality of the users has also been reduced. Yes, it is the individual's responsibility to enforce laws and regulations. But in a market where supply is clearly greater than demand, some could be more easily tempted to engage in illegal acts. In Oslo, a no has more than twice as many permits per year. A thousand inhabitants like cities that it's natural to compare with. It tells us about a development that might have something to do with it. During the hearing in this case, the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association said that one must have 590 inhabitants per person. dross for profitability, and in Oslo this is the number 258 inhabitants per. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. When this is said, I would like to emphasise again that the law is unacceptable, regardless of the cause. The question is whether Oslo Municipality as a permit image in this case will use a tool to remedy this situation. It is quite clear that the tool can be used without going back to a monopoly situation. The centre party is very positive that work has been started between several departments and that contact has been established with the Municipality of Oslo in order to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat the crime of illegal transport, with a particular focus on the taxi industry. The centre party supports the plural recommendation that the submission be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e638	The background to this proposal for a representative is that we, the proposers from the Left, want to help put an end to the unculture of the taxi industry, an unculture that causes some individuals to destroy the entire industry. On my taxi trips, I have met many drivers who ask us politicians to take some action so that honest drivers can regain pride in their profession. Such enquiries make an impression on me. The thrush industry is struggling with a trust problem following tax fraud detection, and after taxi drivers have been involved in arms trafficking for criminal gangs in Oslo. This goes beyond the clear majority who operate honestly, and the customers who can experience insecurity and unpleasant situations. It is also unfortunate from the general legal point of view that fraud and crime in an industry are not reduced. Therefore, measures to combat this part of the taxi industry as well as tax fraud and industry fraud must be put in place as soon as possible. Professional transport legislation regulates the taxi industry, and it is the county municipalities and the municipality of Oslo that award taxi licences. We are pleased to note that work has been started between several departments to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat crime in the taxi industry. However, we believe that some changes can be made in any case. It's important to have a code that rewards the honest person. The thrush centres currently have some control over the industry. However, we believe that the responsibilities of the centres should be strengthened, that more stringent quality requirements should be imposed on the centres, and that they should be imposed on them to store taximeter data and report to public authorities. Among other things, central centres should be required to report on entry and change data to the Equation Office. This will ensure a control of the industry and will make it easier for the Equations Offices to be able to obtain the necessary information from the centres rather than from the individual licensee. Where a storage and reporting obligation is appropriate, the permission holder must be obliged to be connected to a taxi centre. Today, the privilege authorities have the power to decide whether the privilege holder should be connected to a central authority, but there is no absolute obligation. A central connection obligation will increase professionalism in the industry by accepting complaints, holding find goods, accepting phone orders, etc. We believe that a mandatory obligation to connect to the centre will be a way to give the centres more control over the industry. Today, the starting point is one per permit. copyright holder. We believe that there is reason to implement pilot schemes with multiple car drivers, i.e. that the person authorised to operate taxis may dispose of more than one car through more than one licence. Such a scheme exists in Copenhagen, where those with the highest turnover per year. Car, get more permissions. This has proved to work very well. Experience has shown that multiple - car victors often run seriously. Furthermore, a multi-car-owner system will simplify the control of the authorities of the equation. Therefore, provision should be made for exemptions from Section 43 of the Professional Transport Regulation, so that trials can be carried out on multiple-car-owners in Oslo. I have noticed that the Managing Director Wiggo Korsnes of the Norwegian Taxi Federation agrees with the proposal to the Left, but that he wants to go even further. In the setting, the members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre point to a proposal supported by Trine Skei Grande in Oslo City Council, to increase the number of taxi runs in Oslo, claiming that this has led to a poor performance situation for owners and employees, that the quality of customers has been reduced, and that this makes it difficult to build a healthy industry. What kind of logic is this? That if there's competition in the market, it creates cheating and fantasy? Here it has to be a logical flaw, and I think it's a shame that this is written in a setting. Finally, I would like to say that I am disappointed that no more want to support the proposal to the Left in order to show that we, as politicians, are taking this important work seriously. With this I address the proposal to the left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e659	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e662	It is an important theme that is on the agenda of the Stortinget today. I'll make some comments from my side to my case. Licences are currently required under professional transport laws in order to be able to operate professional goods or passenger transport services by road. According to Section 4 of the Transport Act, there are three general requirements to be allowed: good conduct, satisfactory financial ability and adequate professional competence. In order to assess the reputation of the applicants, a fresh police record is required. The last time five years after the last time the police certificate has been submitted to the law enforcement authority, a police certificate has to be reissued. The county council for taxis is the county councils, in Oslo it is the municipality that has this task. Permissions may be revoked if the terms of the assignment are no longer present. The same applies to offences against professional transport laws or to offences against legislation such as those relating to the pursuit of commercial activities in general. In Oslo, the Equation Board found that some 340 taxi owners have kept away from the average of 1 million. kr from taxation. 20 owners are currently reported for violations of accounting laws. This number is expected to rise to over 300. The five first cases have now been brought before the court, with the result of a failed judgment. In connection with the above-mentioned cases, about 600 taxi drivers have given up more than 100 million. kr too little in salary. In the cold water of these matters it has also appeared that it has been cheated with social security. The scale of these cases is linked to the failure of the control system, by the involvement of an accountant who has subsequently been sentenced to long prison sentences. On the basis of these taxi cases from Oslo, a multi-departmental effort has been undertaken to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat crime in the voluntary transport industry under the Transport Act, with a particular focus on the taxi industry. The aim of including several departments is that there is a clear need to coordinate resources in order to obtain the broadest possible basis for a concerted effort against taxis in several areas under different public responsibilities. One will thus have a basis for looking at different measures in context, rather than dealing with fragmentary schemes. In respect of the contents of Document No: The 8 proposal, I would like briefly to mention that issues related to securing electronic information in tariffs such as evidence of revenue from taxi companies are a matter primarily of the tax and tax authorities, which will be assessed in the work. It is precisely in this case that an overall assessment of different actions under public responsibility as referred to above can be useful. It's e.g. not manifestly that public authorities such as the tax and tax authorities should agree that the central authority, as a private legal entity, is most often the property of the rightholders, should be responsible for obtaining and maintaining sensitive information on behalf of the public administration. When it comes to the proposal to impose a central connection obligation, it will mean that a central one will override the freedom that local government has today to organise the taxi services as they think is best. I can't see that this freedom has caused a problem for the audience, and I'm not sure what one would achieve with such a coercion. Drosses are need-tested, and the limitation in the number of available permissions results in some long search lists becoming available. Nor can I see that there are good arguments for a system to legislate that allows copyright holders to collect a larger number of rights on one hand, to the disadvantage of drivers waiting for permission. It would also break the principle of equality. Legislation already allows to grant additional privileges to existing ones in a specific case. I refer to what I have mentioned above, and see it as primary and necessary that all the tools that may be relevant to facilitate the control tasks of various public authorities in relation to the taxi industry, and generally in relation to other rights under the law, are assessed in a context and presented in a single package. However, the comprehensive review shall not prevent individual actions from being carried out if they are on their own and otherwise will contribute significantly to the achievement of the objectives they wish to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e700	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. In the autumn of 2004 the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party were in opposition. They would then have framework conditions that would enable serious operators and qualified drivers. In the autumn of 2006, the same batches had entered their government position, and the 2007 budget indicated that the Ministry would continuously assess measures to improve taxi services and possibly return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. Would you like to come to the Storting? How do you want to get to the Storting? Want a case for Stortinget about, among other things, serious operators and qualified drivers in the taxi industry and good control measures also include the modernisation, if necessary a revision, of the applicable professional transport law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e709	We are now working on a number of departments, where we look at many areas around the taxi industry, not least how to control the industry more easily. We - there are several government councils involved in this - will come back to the Storting when the work is finished. This is a work with a high priority. I've had a meeting with the Minister of Justice - and I'm going to have it again. If in this work there will also be a modernisation of professional transport laws, we do not have a position on per cent. today. We must first assess the concrete proposals that are on the table, and then we will see if there will be any such action. I must be allowed to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e716	The Council of State was very clear in its review of what was needed to possibly lose a permit, and what was needed to obtain a permit. At the same time, the government parts - the center part included - write in the setting: ‘Oslo Municipality as a privilege authority has done too little to clean up the Oslo industry. Avoidance of development has contributed to the development of unculture.’ The Council of State also heard the contribution from the representative of Wickholm, who pointed out that giving more privileges helped to make it easier to become a criminal - to say that - or to get a healthy diet. Does the Council of State agree that the Municipality of Oslo has done too little? And what could they have done if that's what the Council of State says, that in order to lose a permit you either have to commit a criminal act or break the Traffic Code?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e730	There is no doubt that the municipality of Oslo, within the framework of today's legislation, had the possibility of going further into this area than they have done. Having said that, we now want to develop a good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and other counties, so that we can together come to life what I would call the «uvesenet». We must never forget that the majority of taxi drivers are decent and decent people on board and are making an important social effort. So to this with permission. Increasing the number of taxis to such an extent has led to - it has also been said by taxi owners themselves to me with more - that it is difficult to obtain a living to run taxis in Oslo. If there is a main reason why some have developed a criminal racetrack, I am not able to respond directly to it. But when you're not able to get a good enough income, it might be tempting to try to raise your income in an unethical way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e737	I will first commend the Minister for having addressed this matter on such a broad basis, and so that we can get this back to the thing as a whole package. We look forward to that in the Christian People's Party. I am surprised that the Minister defends the majority's comments on what is the reason we've got this joke. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it cannot be the number of dross that will remain after this debate as the cause of the juxtaposition that we have experienced in Oslo. I hope the minister will clarify it in his reply to me. Finally, I was in my post saying that there might be a need for a separate control body that is accompanying the taxi industry in the future. Is the Minister prepared to assess whether we should have such a control body?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e746	To take the last first: the Council of State is not set to it in this round. I think that the county councils and the municipality of Oslo - which is also the county council in this context - must take the responsibility of controlling the industry. Then, in the dialogue with the county councils that it owes - and that applies to all - we get to know whether they also see the need for a control body, that is. that they do not feel able to do that job. I think it's up to the county councils to do that job and maybe make it even better than what they've done so far, as we've come in this situation. When it comes to the observation from the majority, the council has no need for corks to be true or to reject it. The note is on its own bone and expresses the vision of the three parts. I believe that there has been an over-establishment in the municipality of Oslo, but as I said in my previous answer: I do not have enough insight to say that it is the sole cause of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e762	Thank you for the review! I have noticed that the majority here today expect the City Council in Oslo to clean up itself. Of course, I agree with that, but at the same time the industry is asking for assistance from the central team. I understand that this is working, but it's urgent. Can the Council of State fix the time when this drag can come? I thought I heard the Council of State say something in the post that there might be some action coming along. Is that right, or did I hear wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e771	Once again to take the last one first: we don't plan to come up with individual measures, we plan to come up with a package of measures. I just wanted to confirm that it is possible, of course, to come up with individual measures, if they are on their own and so feel the matter. So for festivities, like the other question blasphemously. I can't make this happen. Actually, I never do that in matters that are being dealt with. But that this is a work that has a lot of attention, I can go under. The departments involved, they work very well - I would say - to find out the good measures, but some distribution work is required, and the impact assessments of the measures put in place are required, so that we are sure that they are accurate in relation to the objectives of the measures. I'm asking for respect for the time it takes, but the ambitions are to present this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e778	I have to follow up the question from Arne Sortevik - which has been raised to this extent by Borghild Tenden. So it's the same parts that are in government now, that in the opposition in 2004 were very clear that something had to be done here. It's the same batches that the state budget wrote in the autumn of 2006 that this was something you wanted to do with, and something you had to do with. I also record that the Council of State often asks questions, including: in the case of school bus children, they say it will continue to be investigated and continued to be assessed. And in the case of the 70-year age limit, it's still to be evaluated and investigated further. When it is said that this matter is given high priority by the Council of State and in the other departments, I expect you to have a certain opinion about when you expect the matter to be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e786	In the past, state councils have written their fingertips to be precise at the time and know that a case like this, which is complex, where several parties and several levels of government are involved - for we also need to have a dialogue with the county councils about this - can take some time. Then I choose to say that we come back as soon as possible, but the matter is of high priority. It is reflected in the fact that we have met at the level of the Council of State and that we are going to have more meetings at the level of the Council of State. We don't have that in issues that don't have a very high priority. And we have these meetings to clarify the situation along the way and to get things moving. I can only repeat what I have said: I will come back with this matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e793	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e798	I think first of all it is good to hear that the Council of State has a high focus on this matter, and that this is something that is being worked seriously and diligently in the department. It appreciates the signed. Then I have to be allowed to comment on some claims, some rhetorical questions or what to call it, that have come here. The representative of Greece asks if it is such that the undersigned will return to a situation where the taxi is a scarcely good and where we have a monopoly on the taxi. No, it doesn't want to sign. However, whether or not taxis are scarce or not does not necessarily have to do with the number of permits that are at all times granted in a region. It also has to do with how these rights are used, when you choose to drive the taxis, at what time of the day you find it most profitable, and if you find it even profitable to drive a taxi at all times of the day. As sometimes a major consumer of taxis in Oslo center, I would say that taxis are also about quality. When you can constantly experience situations where you stand at the bus terminal in Schweigaardsgate and specify the address of your own residence further up in Schweigaardsgate, and you get questions about where Schweigaardsgate is, you have to say that there is a rather low quality of the offer you get. And as the representative of Greece quite rightly said, it's the customers who are in focus. Therefore, it is important that we not only deliver customers a product that is as cheap as possible, but also a product that is as good as possible. But I'm also concerned about another thing. When I pay for a service, or when I am going to have an employee with me, it should be at a reasonable price. The right is a party that is normally engaged in having a good market and doing a good trade, and a good trade is often referred to as an act on which both parties serve, and where one party does not exploit the other. I also think it's important to bring it here. The dry-cleaning industry is to be a proud profession, and we must therefore also ensure that those employed there are properly paid for the service they are doing, and that they also appreciate the work so that they want to do the best possible job, and not just finish the shift and get home. So no, I don't want to go back to good, old days--I'm often a little uncertain about whether they've ever existed--but I want a state where we have a good quality of service, like with more companies, but with a good regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e811	There is no doubt that this is an important matter to follow up. I think the initiative taken by the proposers is good. I also think it is very good that a job is now being done by several departments to look at the efforts against offences in the licensed transport industries, with a particular focus on the taxi industry. However, I have to reply to Mr Wickholm's comments, where he makes it clear that there are the number of rights that determine whether it is a fraud or not in this sector. I think it's too simple. Whether there are few or many who operate within one area, it is sadly so that there are some who sometimes destroy for all the others. I think it is very good that the taxi industry in Oslo wants to clean this up, so that all those who are law-abiding and act within the framework and the rules that are set, now make sure to clean this up and ensure that you cannot continue to abuse this system. I just want to give an example that shows how hopeless I find that Wickholm's presentation of the case is. I know, in fact, that in the transport sector there is very strong competition to supply goods and services for different companies, but I don't think anyone here in this room can say that for that reason there is widespread abuse and cheating within that industry. In fact, I think the most important thing is to make sure that it is now being cleaned up. It can be seen that both the municipality of Oslo, the taxi industry itself and the departments are in the process of doing so. That is why I hope - although the Council of State would not respond, because she would not promise anything she could not keep with regard to deadlines - that this matter will soon come back to the Stortinget, so that we will also discuss the other issues, so that we can have a modern licensing system and a professional transport law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e822	I will not withdraw the debate, but when the representative Hoksrud and others here after the addition of the plural remarks that we have said that there is the number of rights in Oslo or other places that are the reason some are involved in cheating and crime, it is directly wrong. It's in our comment that's pointed at here: ‘This majority believe that a situation in which taxi drivers cannot have a normal income without working large parts of the day makes it difficult to build a healthy industry.’ Of course it does. When there are so many people on the bone that it becomes difficult to get a normal income, it is also difficult to build a healthy diet. But it has a lot of reasons, and one has to go on every single one of them and ask him why he's having the jokes, and what's the background for the criminal activity. It's a distortion of what's the plural comment here, and a distortion of what's happened to the plural number, when you're going to add this comment to such a content.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e834	I noticed what the debate was like. When you talk about that there are too many permissions, so that there are too many drivers and you don't make money, you can think of comparing them with other industries. If there's too many shops in a business, there might not be a market for so many stores in that business. Then someone has to stop in that industry, stop selling the goods, because there is not enough customer base. If there are too many permissions, that is, too many drivers, and they can't make enough money, they have to find something else to do. There is a shortage of labour, and it can't be so difficult to retrain from being a taxi driver and not using that license if it doesn't provide a basis for making money for the rest of your life. Then one has to do something else. Sunn competition pushes the price down. Those who can't make enough money for the rest of their lives need to find something else to do. It's that simple in the industry and in all the other industries that the market controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e839	Several have not asked for the word for ideological debate. The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. [[Fotation, see page 2339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e854	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e861	There may be opportunities for ideological debate in this matter, too, if someone wanted it. The case concerns a proposal from the representatives of the parties to convert the Railway Agency into a company and at the same time ensure that there is more railway development in Norway and better maintenance, following the text of the proposers. The proposal otherwise raises some interesting problem settings that the government is already working on, and I want to come in on some of them. But let me first say that under the red-green government one has got a completely different bet on the railroad than one had with the previous government. One has also looked at what one can do with regard to the ownership structure in order to get more efficiency out of it. That's what I'm doing. The split that the Progress Party and the Right have stood for - perhaps for ideological reasons - so that a now has a number of companies running by rail, also have their weaknesses. One now has NSB, CargoNet, ROM Property, BaneTele, terminal operations. One has quite a number of companies to run by rail. This sometimes makes a lot of cooks and a lot of garbage. It is likely from the point of view of a principle of efficiency for competition. One sees, among other things, in connection with what is now happening in Oslo, it is precisely that there are many cooks and no one really wants to take responsibility. This is currently running the Government and is cleaning up. We now assess the ownership page. But I have no faith that the Dacherism that the Progress Party wants is a good solution. But I agree that, as the government is doing now, we have to go in and see what we can do to get more out of the railway. The one important point for me is what we've been discussing for six hours before today, climate. We need to get a completely different ‘drive’ when it comes to node thinking. Getting people to live in the vicinity of the station, on top of the railway or by the railway and make sure that the transport needs with other polluting sources get smaller, something we're not good enough for in Norway. You can go abroad and see. Berlin is an extreme example, where there are 5,000 who only work at the station. Oslo S also has a huge number of jobs at the station. That means one takes away some of the transport needs. Now we're building the railroad for over $2 billion on the North Juice. There is a great potential if ROM Eiendom, the railway network, the NSB and others work together to drive the development of ownership by the railway, and like to cross the railway. Here we can do a lot of good if we can clean up problems related to ownership. A problem that is also raised involves funding. As I said, this government has increased the rail path by 50 pst. Hopefully, we will continue to keep our ups and downs when it comes to national transport plan and rail. It's interesting, I thought, when Halleraker from Right and others look at other countries, e.g. to Sweden. There are other forms of funding. There's a Botnia Railway, which is spending less money than we spend on the corresponding in Norway, which builds faster, as a builder as a project, and which makes one get more of the money in the railway operation. I think we'd be more likely to look at what one actually does in Sweden, and what's now happening to the Bothnia Railway. That's what I think the Government is doing, at least we're very concerned about it in the plural fraction of the transport committee. In addition, since I mentioned Sweden, the Swedish have it so that if they invest a penny on the road, they will bet two kroner on the railway. It is also a powerful signal in relation to climate. The issues raised by the proposers are now mainly concerned with ownership, node thinking and funding. The conclusion has not been given, but I am absolutely sure that it will not be proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e878	The railway system is a government management activity which has the development, operation and maintenance of the network in Norway and the traffic management on that network as its responsibility. Activities are financed from the State budget. The issue we are about to deal with today is a proposal from the Progress Party on the reorganization of the Railway Agency to state companies in order to ensure predictable and long-term funding for the necessary upgrading and expansion of existing rail networks in Norway. The government of Stoltenberg has ambitions on behalf of the railway. It reflects not least the investment budgets, which have increased by more than 50 pst. since 2005 and increased resources for maintenance during the period beyond the need provided by the NTP-department, which is a significant contribution to the previous Government. And the strengthening of the railways will continue, especially in populace areas and on routes with a lot of freight transport. The Government has committed itself to this in the Soria Moria Declaration, and in the Climate Change Agreement, all parties except the Progress Party state that rail investment will increase more than the growth of road investment in 2009. In addition, high-speed trains shall be identified and reported in NTP 2010-2019. Nevertheless, after many years of depriving the railway, there is still a significant lag in investment, renewal and maintenance, which must be resumed before the railway becomes a modern and competitive mode of transport. This is particularly important for the intercity sections of the East, where the development of double tracks for higher speeds is important and necessary in relation to the large traffic growth for both passenger and freight transport that has been on the rail in recent years. This has been underlined by the Railway Agency in the NTP proposal for the next period, where it has presented the needs for investment, maintenance and renewal of today’s rail network over the next 10 years. The proposal is demanding and confirms what today’s NTP says that there is still a great need for increased railway investment, not least on the maintenance side. Despite the government's historical movement rate in this period of level, and the fact that there is a government's initial follow-up to a decision on the priorities of today's NTP, after many years of railway down-priority, increased traffic growth and increased construction costs have led to the Government's increased investment on the road. This means that many NTP projects are not implemented as intended. The expectations of society and its citizens for development and implementation have also strengthened in recent years. The impatience is great to build up the road and rail networks now. In this picture, the question of the Progress Party indirectly raises in the matter, how to ensure predictable and long-term funding for the necessary upgrading and deployment of existing rail networks, is important. I fully agree with the intention of the proposal to ensure predictable and long-term funding for upgrading and deployment of the rail network. That's what I've been working for throughout this period. In addition, I am committed to a coherent development of the railway network over longer distances, instead of the parallel development we have today. However, if it is right to convert the Railway Agency into a state-owned company in order to achieve this, I am unsure. But I would like to stress that it is important that the Government at all times assess whether the organisation and funding are optimal in order to carry out these tasks. The government has also said that they will investigate how we can achieve predictable and long-term financing of the infrastructure project within the current budgetary system. We are actively working to clarify this. However, it promises well for the railway that we are many who are impatient and see the need for a strong development of the railway in order to strengthen its competitiveness, albeit in some different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e904	The railways in Norway face difficult challenges. The core investigation states that 80-100 billion kroner are missing if we want to have a modern railway for both today's needs and the future needs. Then it helps very little if this government boasts that it has increased the appropriations for investment in the railways by 50 pst., when this amounts to only less than 1 billion kroner, and is also perceived as a decision with historical sus over. With the huge needs of the root-net investigation, $1 billion is going to be like a pocket price. In the debate today, we will hear from this House arguments that the Progress Party has cut the appropriations for the railways in connection with the treatment of the State budget. Yes, it's true that we've cut something in the budgets of the Railway Agency and the NSB, but that's just a very, very small part of the overall picture. Because there is no doubt that the Progress Party has a much stronger commitment to public transport, including rail, especially in population-based areas in the East, which I shall show by several elements. We have proposed to set up a fund for sustainable and predictable financing that could secure up to DKK 3 billion per year for rail and collective solutions. Unfortunately, all the other parties have said no to this. We have proposed means of crossing tracks to strengthen the capacity of freight transport, thus removing many of the trucks that are currently driving on our roads. We have proposed a high level of competition to strengthen both companies and services. Where in society are there queues left at all today? Well, that's where the public has questioned its own monopoly. With the proposal that is now before us, we take the organisational approach of modernising the railway network to a time company that can increase the development rate and quality of the country on the railways. The railway need no longer be connected to the previous century. The Progress Party will therefore work to ensure that Norway has the best infrastructure in the world and that it is the one and the modes of transport that are best suited to the different routes to be prioritised. This means that, in some places, the railway will be heavily upgraded, both because it has competitive power and because it is an important part of the overall collective offer. Unfortunately, we believe that with the enormous needs we face, and with the small will of the political majority to increase the appropriations for road and rail purposes, it is essential to look at other possible ways of raising funding for, among other things, the development and upgrading of infrastructure. the railway on. On the basis of this Progress Party, it is considered that the transformation of the Railway Agency from an establishment to a State company could help to allow the company to make its own necessary investments in the railway network - this is because the company itself has large values that can in themselves be a guarantee of possible borrowings in private financial institutions - or, which would be even better, the company could borrow funds from the State, in the same way as in Sweden, where the State lends government funds to investment in infrastructure. The Progress Party is also convinced that this will help to strengthen the competitiveness of the rail system, while at the same time providing for large and fully-needed railway development and ensuring predictable progress in development, irrespective of the annual State budgets. The Progress Party will also point to the situation over the past few weeks, especially in Oslo and Akershus, where several incidents have led to full stoppages in train traffic in large parts of the country, or large parts of the East, because the railway infrastructure is several places of such a constitution that it should have been replaced a long time ago. We have also learned that there are no backup solutions when communication or signalling systems are switched off. This has almost disastrous consequences and clearly demonstrates that these are factors that need to be corrected in order to ensure that a network of lines is operationally stable and with user confidence. The Progress Party therefore proposes today that it be granted up to 100 million. additional to the necessary immediate measures to ensure the operational stability of the railway network. We also believe that it is important to carry out an analysis of the Oslo network and, in the light of this, to provide an overview of the measures needed to ensure the stability of the network. We also ask that, in the light of this investigation, a case be brought to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with proposals for remedial measures and their financing. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e923	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e926	First, a line to Irene Johansen: No, you haven't followed up on NTP yet. The government is still at NOK 1.1 billion. The right-hand side has the same intentions as those expressed in the proposals of the Progress Party. This is how the Progress Party is on the track. However, the Right does not support all the proposals, and I will come back to that. We are also dissatisfied with the government's priority of the railway. On the right of the government, there was a historic investment on the railway. Never before has it been so offensive on the railway, if you ignore the extraordinary investment that the debt restructuring on the Gardermoban meant. It's not just money. It's not just money. The previous government carried out a series of structural measures that gave both passenger and freight services on the railway a great deal of progress. I would like to mention the organisation of combined rail transport and the transformation of NSB freight into CargoNet. We opened up competition for freight, we opened up competition for passenger transport, and the result is the success of the Gjøvik track. The railway works’ tasks in the field of heavy maintenance were separated into a separate business. The first Stoltenberg II government did after it got in position, was put the railway station on a siding. Further separation and competitive outsourcing of the maintenance and production activities, which we were in the process of doing, received a red signal. Since then, it's gone outboard. The government has not delivered as promised, and there is a complete stop to reforms. The government has not turned any shot, as they themselves like to express it--an expression that otherwise is as unexplained as perhaps this matter is. I think everyone who travels by train agrees. From the Right, after the government change, we have continued to bet offensively on the railway. We have given more priority to the railways in our alternative budget, and we have promoted a number of proposals that would change the course that the red-greens have set for the railways. The very positive development of both passenger and freight transport that the previous government has given rise to price change and large-scale investment is now threatened by a lack of capacity and an increasing frequency of operating deviations. For example, why do you have to do this? did not the Council of State ensure that the Railway Agency has prioritised its efforts in the most vulnerable parts of its activities? Why does the customer focus fail? I would venture the claim that if the operating and maintenance tasks had been put at a competitive disadvantage, as we were doing, we would have escaped many of the recent problems. The Council of States shall, however, be commended for now requiring changes, even if it is legally late. We're going to follow closely what's going on in the future, and expect to report to Stortingen on the progress of this work. The salmon must test when the railway can be freshly reported, we only get to the harvest when the Council of State first submits its budget and then national transport plan. The character, however, is the character of the voters who set the next harvest. Project funding was the mantra for renewal of the Soria Moria Declaration. It was scraped at the first crossroads. The content of the spell remained unsubstantiated. The government is now standing without new solutions and new ideas, and now we're waiting excitedly. The right really hopes the Government will soon complete internal disputes and open up alternative organisation and financing of large infrastructure projects, including on rail. At a time when the price of inputs such as steel and concrete goes into the weather, and the government hangs on to its own promises to the voters with $1 billion to the railway, there is a need for a new grip -- more than ever. Why, then, does the Right do not support the proposals of the Progress Party today? That's because we consider the state-owned company model to be suboptimal. The Progress Party, with the proposal for a State Enterprise Model, probably also has among its intentions to achieve predictable financing and rational construction, and can therefore achieve much of the benefits of OPS. But OPS organisation is so much better because it requires private OPS companies that are also in charge of maintenance. Otherwise, I am surprised that the Progress Party wants the form of state enterprise, when one can instead separate non-government activities by other means. The right may consider supporting points 2 and 3 of proposal No. 3 presented by the Progress Party. We think it's unnatural first to grant the money and then get the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e949	The Christian People's Party's heart beats for the railroad. The train has great advantage in competing with other means of transport. The Christian People's Party believes that as much as possible should be able to travel by train, and not least we need to get more goods across from road to track. In that case, collapse and government must ensure that this is precisely the case, and the State must use the necessary governance mechanisms to strengthen the rail system. The proposal proposes to reorganise the Railway Agency into a state company. Let me first make it clear that in the Christian People's Party we share the proposalers' wish for an offensive investment on the railways in Norway. That's why we prioritised the railway when we were in government, even though the Stoltenberg government is trying to create a picture of the opposite. I am pleased that the Stoltenberg government is continuing the increase in the railway appropriations that the Bondevik government started. The Christian People's Party has voted in favour of any proposal for increased investment on the railway, but with regard to the proposal we are considering here today, we in the Christian People's Party believe that there is the wrong answer to the right challenge. Yes, we have to be willing to look at how we organize the development of rail and infrastructure here to land. For example, OPS organisation has proved useful in road construction, and we believe that it is a good solution even in major railway projects. We in the Christian People's Party want a lift for the railway, but the solution is not to reorganize the railway works into a state limited liability company. We politicians are responsible for ensuring good railways. We who are elected to the people should be responsible for the priorities we do. That's the way it should be. The Railway Agency is currently an executive body of the Ministry of Transport. It ensures strong State involvement in central parts of the railway system’s areas. It is a means of ensuring good rail services here to land. Today, as a governing body, the Railway Agency is financed by direct appropriations for gross expenditure and revenue from the State budget. The railway works do not have, nor shall they have, a significant commercial income page. The railway works must be public tools to ensure good railway services and strong State involvement is necessary to ensure the position of the train in competition with other modes of transport. Steering mechanisms must be used to strengthen the railway. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposalers' wish to reorganise the Railway Agency into a State limited liability company. The Christian People's Party is concerned that an increasing share of freight traffic is on the move. The railway has a competitive power when large quantities of goods are to be carried over long distances. We have to get a greater share of the freight from road to rail. In order to succeed, the development of double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals needs to be intensified. Should people take the train, we must have an offer that customers perceive as good and stable. Customers must be satisfied with punctuality, the information provided, departure times, travel times and the comfort offered. Here it is a significant potential for improvement. Among other things, we do. in the case of the most recent Central Eastern region. The situation is totally unsustainable and needs to improve, especially in the case of local genes. The solution is not to detach the Railway Works from state control, on the contrary. This requires policy-makers who take responsibility and use the tools needed. Finally, the representative Arne Sortevik has been very busy on behalf of the Progress Party. A new, offensive proposal is on the table: 100 million. kr i revised for immediate action on the Oslo network. The Christian People's Party would like to participate in an offensive initiative in the central eastern region, but 100 million. kr is not taken right above the table - in that case it is only in the Progress Party it is acceptable. This must be taken into account more closely in the budgetary procedure, whether it be in the revised budget when it comes or in the final budgetary procedure. Then the Christian People's Party will decide. I listened with interest to Bård Hoksrud's articles. Nevertheless, I have a certain feeling that the Progress Party has got a bad conscience, and therefore now compensates for 100 million. kr at full speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e964	The question from the proposers is whether to reorganise the Railway Agency to a State-owned company. The railway system has the development and maintenance of national railway infrastructure as its most central task. The important question in this case is whether setting up a state-owned company is the right answer to the challenges, or whether there are other and better solutions to ensure the maintenance and development of the existing network in the short and long term. The central party, together with the majority, suggests that the Government should assess whether the reorganisation and financing of the Railway Agency is optimal. In this work, you will have to make several assessments. The challenge is that, in spite of the increased financial framework of this government, there is still a great need for both maintenance and infrastructure development. I'm open to assessing the consequences of a solution where the state lends money to itself, and then realize a larger both road and rail project. The State will then be the one that lends out of its equity. Such a scheme will probably not bring any greater economic benefits in terms of construction, but it will probably ensure a faster realization of major road and rail projects. The centre party sees a connection between the allocated financial framework and what you can expect from services. It is therefore very positive that the Government has increased the investment frame by more than 50 pst. since 2006. At the same time, the progress party has markedly cut the lines of the Norwegian railway. Yes, then there might be reason to wonder what bet the Progress Party would like on Norwegian railway to reorganize into state-owned company and thus contribute to the dedemocraticisation of governance. The centre party is busy giving the inhabitants of this country good services in both a long-term and a short-term perspective. Directly elected governance will have a responsibility for the whole-society, and thus not just rule according to purely business-economy principle. The grips to be taken must ensure a holistic, prudent and long-term construction of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e977	People are more than ever willing to turn in an environmentally friendly direction. We are now in a phase in which it is time-critical that we politicians follow up and trigger this potential. The time has come to focus on environmentally sound solutions in the transport sector. These included: Therefore, the Left in its 2008 Alternative State Budget proposed nearly 800 million. a significant increase in investment on the railways and also in other public transport in urban areas. The left is open to discuss how best to finance the various railway projects. However, we believe that there should be a focus on measures other than those proposed by the members of the Progress Party in their proposal, so that we can get more money back for the money we spend on the railways. In the road sector, the Bondevik II Government implemented a very successful transformation of the State Road Service through, inter alia, the the excretion of Mesta AS. With competition for work on the road network in Norway, there has been a saving of billions in public spending on maintenance and investment. The left wants rail to be strengthened both through increased public contributions and through more efficient use of the money allocated. It is important that the resources made available by the Community are used efficiently and appropriately. The left considers that the construction, operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure shall be a public responsibility. Operation and maintenance has been a priority area for changing governments over time. Despite this, customers experience constant settings due to faults and deficiencies in railway installations. Today, the Railway Agency has both the role of ordering and performing party in the operation and maintenance of large parts of the railway. The fact that the same organisation is responsible for both economics, progress and quality in the work being done can lead to an unfortunate mix of roles. Left wants to professionalise the Service Order Railway Agency. In parallel, the Left will increase the use of tenders in the operational and maintenance tasks on the railway. We believe this is a good solution to ensure that Community resources are used as efficiently as possible, and that the quality of what is being done is better targeted and more effective. Within the railway area, this is environmental work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e988	I have noticed that the proposal is justified by the need for long-term funding for the necessary upgrading and deployment of existing rail networks in Norway. I do not disagree that there is a need for significant resources both for renewal and for the development of the network, but it does not appear that it is necessary to reorganise the Railway Agency to the company in order to do so. Looking at the Progress Party's proposals for the railway works' promises in recent years, there is reason to wonder if there is another motive behind this proposal. I'm worried about the next step the Progress Party will take when one has turned the Railway Agency into a state-owned company, is to propose a privatisation of the company in accordance with the Progress Party's ideology and strong faith in privatisation and market management. In this case, this would be clearly contrary to the policy of the sitting government in this area. I find it rather unlikely that the proposers have such great regard for railway operations as a means of transport when looking at what the Progress Party has proposed of licences to the Railway Agency only during the years I have been the Minister for Transport. In 2006, the Progress Party proposed to cut the railway works' licenses by approximately NOK 1.4 billion compared to the Government's proposal. In 2007, the cut-off proposal was approximately SEK 1.5 billion, while in 2008 the cut-off proposal also amounted to DKK 1.5 billion. This does not mean that the progress party is specifically busy ‘to ensure predictable and long-term funding for the necessary upgrading and deployment of existing networks in Norway’; I am completely overconfident that regardless of how one organises the Railway Agency, it will still be dependent on large government contributions. I think it's the responsibility of the state to take on the great risk of building and operating a national railway system. I believe that this is also the main reason why railway infrastructure in other European countries is being run under state control. In this case, changing the form of connection to the Railway Agency must be based on factors other than the financing of railway development in the form of State loans, as proposed by the proposers. Although the Railway Agency is being converted into a company, State loans for railway development must be granted over the State budget. As the situation is today, the state does not need to borrow money for itself. Whatever the form of organisation, the most important thing will be how much money the sitting government and the Storting are always willing to provide advice for railway investments. In this context, I would like to point out that the current government has increased the investments for railway development by more than 50 pst. Compared to the 2006 budget of the Bondevik II Government. When it comes to the question of financing road and rail development in connection with the proposal for a National Transport Plan for 2010-2019, I will also refer to my answer to the question from the representative Sortevik in Question Time on 6 February of this year, where I indicated that various forms of project financing have previously been discussed in the context of the discussion of St.prp. No 1, Yellow book for 2007, but that I am willing to look at new points of view that had to emerge in connection with the work on a new national transport plan in the ministry. When it comes to the form of organisation of the Railway Agency, this must, in my opinion, be assessed on the basis of the tasks and responsibilities that have been added to it today. Current organisation must be based on the fact that the Railway Agency is alone in its tasks and that there are major societal interests attached to the tasks pursued by the Railway Agency. This activity requires political governance in some form. Compare with e.g. Avinor AS, which is mainly self-financed, does not have the Authority's own financing to any particular extent in addition to ordinary government promises, or operates with commercial activity to an extent that is important to the entity's overall income, which requires the enterprise to be organised as a company. In accordance with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is engaged in direct political management of the main parts of the Railway Agency’s operations, which include the operation, maintenance and construction of railway infrastructure, the quality of the services offered by the Railway Agency to train operators and the public, and the priorities of new investment projects. Due to the lack of self-financing and the desire for direct political governance, it is not appropriate to consider the Railway Agency as a limited liability company, and I have no concrete plans today to propose changing the organisational form of the Railway Agency. To Halleraker's posts, I have to say that due to the cost of starving during the previous period and a work with a start to competition, which scared 250 skilled employees away from the railway station, I am now struggling with the infrastructure in the Oslo area. The suspension of competition did not solve the problems. There's a need for money, and that's what this government is asking for, as opposed to the Bondevik II government. I also remind you that the level in the national transport plan, which we are now implementing, is 1 billion kroner above the level that the previous government partners could vote for. It was to throw blues in the eye of the voters, it was said. In other words, for two years we have fulfilled a framework that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left saw as unattainable in government, but which they are now trying to reduce to nothing. Such a rewriting of the guise shall have a frenzy's grace to perform from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1016	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1019	This was a rather strange contribution from the Council of State, but it was finally put on some sort of assessment of the material content of the proposal after speculating in the darkest and worst political motives of the proposers. They are, in fact, honest and sincere, among other things. to supplement the Government's fairly empty toolbox. Project funding has been cancelled. This proposal may provide predictable and long-term funding for the development of Norwegian railways faster than the Government can. Does not the Council of State see that this can be a model that can provide faster development, which can provide clear, predictable and long-term funding? Doesn't the Council see that this is actually a model we're already using? If we take a side view of Avinor, it's essentially the same thing. The creation of a state-owned whole-time company that can operate in the financial market and with the financing of projects in a freer way than can be done by being bound to annual government budget appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1024	There is a large and significant difference between Avinor and the Railway Agency, namely that Avinor has substantial revenues and largely finances the whole operation through revenues from its own business, while the Railway Agency is dependent on the provision of state resources. It makes it absolutely impossible to compare their work in a good way. No matter how you turn around and turn around, the state will have to finance the development of the railways. One can do many types of curve jump - one can create OPS, which allows private companies to spend money on it as well, one can create project finance, which allows the government to deposit funds, for example. in a lending company, as one has done in Sweden - but one cannot escape, no matter how one turns around and turns on it, that it is the state that has to pay the value to the seventh and last. Then one has to have promises of the state budget. You're gonna be back. So that funding becomes so much easier by creating a company, I can't see, simply because there's no substantial income to provide to the Railway Agency other than those provided by the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1031	The president regrets that he did not get the push of the button, and thus confused the state council, which got more than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1034	The center party, of all people, should know the difference in years of unyear and good years. We had to correct the premise in order to be able to operate export-oriented activities in this country at all. This government has NOK 130 billion more to go with. That's what the issue is, and that's the difference. NTP has been met, we hear from the government parties in almost every post they hold in the transport debates - so the gifts are fairly well distributed. My question to the Council of State is brief and correct: Is this government $1.1 billion according to its own promises regarding the fulfilment of the NTP on the railway, or does it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1041	This government has met NTP, as I have said from the pulpit many times, for two years. And it's true that there's a backlog from the miserable budget that this government took over from the Bondevik II government, which we fixed up a little bit. We are now trying to absorb the rest of it, and of course we have hope of doing so, but we still have to close the budget discussions before we can come back with the result. But that we have fulfilled for two years, I and the Government stand firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1046	There is now - and it has been granted - a lot of money for the railways, and of course there could have been much more money for this sector than for most other sectors. In my post, I suggested that it must be possible to look at schemes where you can get more rail for the money, and I mentioned the separation of Mesta in the road sector. Does the Minister for Transport agree that the separation of Mesta was wise and that more money has been made available? And is this something she might want to do even within the railway sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1053	I believe that representatives of the previous government repeat their concern about the separation of Mesta and all the funds that have been set free. I've done a lot of attempts to take care of the funds, get to know where they're going. But it's impossible to track where to find the resources in the system. I found it quite problematic that it is difficult to see where the funds are. It is also very difficult to demonstrate that they do not exist. They probably float around some place, just that no one can get a hold of them. The central part was not positive at that time to separate Mesta. It has given some positive effects, but it also has given some negative ones, which time doesn't allow us to go into it. I have no desire to go the same way with the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1060	To follow up my previous line: The answer could leave the impression that you simply do not understand the effect of establishing a state-owned company. I believe that the Council of State who answers, does so, but that the Council of State who sits behind me is not happy with that arrangement. The point is that a state company that can borrow money gets past the limits of the cash principle. So it makes it possible to build faster, speed up investment, and write them off over 20-30 years through the appropriations that go over the annual government budget. I think many people see that there is a way to speed up the investments in the railway works. It is completely parallel to a proposal we have had in the road sector, which the Storting has also rejected. This is part of the modernisation of Norwegian transport policy by the Progress Party, and I am convinced that it will come, and that it will be a good effect of this and similar measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1067	If one goes the path of the representative Sortevik in a great way, one in a few years will have no freedom of action at all when it comes to prioritising new projects. Then the entire budget line would go to write down and pay back the projects already carried out. It looks like we're talking about OPS. Once the three projects have been completed that can be comparable to this, 600 million will be needed. kroner of the frame each year go to pay back. There's no free lunch, that was my point. In any case, the money must be obtained. But of course it is a positive effect, which was also mentioned by Sortevik, that one gets the projects advanced. It's the only effect. But the funds we get can have exactly the same effect by increasing the budget. One gets the exact same effect if an increased border is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1074	Since I was a little rhetorical the last time, I want to be a little constructive now and try to contribute some support to Sortevik. It is such that under the previous Swedish government, led by a social democrat, Göran Persson, the organisation was established around the Botniaban, which is thus a success project on the east coast of Sweden. Here's exactly what happened, as Langeland pointed out earlier in the debate, that a separate company has been set up that borrows into state finance to finance a state issue. Does this government not think that it could also be a good idea to look at it more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1082	It's always interesting to look at success stories, and I'd like to take a look at the Bothnia track, but I can tell you what's going to come out of it. When it comes to alternative funding, the government has said about it so far in what is in the 2007 Yellow Book. I have also said that to the extent that new elements arise when this is the case, I of course consider them towards the national transport plan. The Botnia Railway may be a project currently visible in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1089	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1094	A few things in 3 minutes - first as a follow-up to the line change: the time effect can then be between 15 and 20 years. For those who are interested in getting things done faster and will not wait 15-20 years more, this should be a model to try out. Here the Government stresses that there is a question of funding, a predictable and long-term funding. Then, of course, you can operationally choose which model you want - it's with the address of the Right. It is also possible to choose a OPS operational solution within the framework of predictable and long-term funding. But first of all, I'm here to take up proposal No. 3 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, distributed in the Chamber. We have a special and crisis situation related to the vulnerability and quality of the Oslo railway network. Train stop. 50000 passengers are waiting: excessive delays, excessive extra costs and great irritation, mainly for the passengers, and great frustration for the carrier. The Progress Party believes that it is natural to include proposals on this in this important rail matter. That's how we have a certain tradition of doing that. When we had the problems in the Hanekleiv tunnel, the money put in place, they quickly got in place. We had the server crash. Then the accident was over. It was a crisis, and we got the money in place quickly. There is a crisis situation related to vulnerability and quality of the Oslo network. I refer to a look-up in the evening post last Thursday, where the infrastructure manager of the Railway Agency admits that he could do more if he had more money. We'll do three things. In paragraph 1 of the proposal, but in a total package that is linked, which we are asking for an overall vote on, we propose to allocate 100 million. to exceptional emergency measures. In paragraph 2, we propose to use international consultants to look at the Oslo railway network with new, fresh eyes. We think the environment is small. We think the same eyes have seen too long, and maybe they don't see the good and glum things that can be done. We want someone from the outside to look at this with new, fresh eyes. On that basis, we propose in paragraph 3 that a new case be brought forward to the Grand Duchy with proposals for action and also the appropriations needed to implement the measures. The aim is to reduce vulnerability and improve the quality of the Oslo network. We have no obscene intentions about this, but on the contrary a desire to improve regularity and ensure that 50000 passengers do not risk waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1107	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1110	Earlier today, we had a debate on the climate agreement. And as far as I was concerned, much of the debate revolved around whether the Progress Party has understood what major climate change we are facing. The more pleasant it is then to take the Progress Party seriously, considering that it has now become a really railway party. Not many years have passed since leading party representatives stood up and said that the railway was in the past. Its more parties that are now committed to getting a better railway in this country, the better it is - so I would like to be absolutely welcome. When the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, begins to boast of what the Progress Party has done for the railway in the last few years, the threat falls throughout the embassy. It's easy to go into the annual budgets, and speech is ready. In the 2007 budget, the Progress Party, among others, proposed: a cut in the purchase of train services, and the NSB concluded that this would result in the decommissioning of the local train to and from Oslo, which would lead to over 100,000 more passenger cars from and into Oslo by day. There are so many passenger cars that even the Progress Party had not had the possibility of being close to moving out of that situation. The organisation of the Railway Agency must be kept under review. We have increased the permissions of the railway, as the state council and others have done, quite a lot in the last few years. We're all looking to get the most effect out of the money that's being inserted into this system. I'm not going to go into the political game, but Right and Halleraker are talking about that in the previous period there was a historic lift, a historic bet on the railway. Then it sounds very strange that Halleraker is dissatisfied with the bet we have now, when we've increased the bet on the railway dramatically compared to the previous period. Then one shows the other grips that were done. That's what's today's situation for the Railway Agency. The railway operation has been complicated by all the electronics and signalling systems and everything in it. The railway system itself says that it is lacking in competence. Why do they lack such competence? Well, because the Bondevik government decided, and they asked Steinar Killi and the company to make sure to cancel a lot of those who were really going to do this. Then they would buy them services in a market. That's the actual ratio. That market was not found. That is what the Railway Agency is struggling with today - a lack of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1121	After listening to the representative Halleraker's eloquent outreach of the Bondevik government's so-called railway investment, I have to comment on it. The figures are clear if we compare the budgets. There is no doubt that the government of Stoltenberg has a far more offensive investment on the railway than the Bondevik government. I am sure that the representative Halleraker will also see, even if he will not admit it. It is therefore strange to hear the representative, Halleraker, claim that after the Bondevik administration, the railway has gone off the ground, and that the railway works have been sidetracked, and that this is something that everyone who travels by rail agrees to. The representative Halleraker even claims that if the outsourcing of the operational and maintenance tasks had been carried out, we would have released the recent problems - claims for which there is no coverage. The capacity of the railroad is detonated. The growth in passenger and rail freight transport has been enormous in recent years, and especially since the Stoltenberg government increased its investment in rail. There is therefore no indication that the railway is going outhill - on the contrary. The railway station has increased appropriations and stopped the outsourcing of the operational and maintenance tasks in order to increase the effort on the development, operation and maintenance of the siding on which it stood after Bondevik's depriority. It's a fact that the situation we're seeing now, especially in the eastern part of the country with disruptions and stoppages, is a result of years of railway down-priority. So-- this isn't something that's come in the last two and a half years. In addition, it is a fact that the attempt to outsource the operational and maintenance tasks undertaken by the Bondevik Government in spite of poor experience from other countries has resulted in the railway system losing important competences, among others. in the field of signalling, which is a challenge today. They're building it up again, but it takes time. I would therefore like to claim that the current situation of the Railway Agency, and the problems we have with the operation, is the result of years of delays in investments, operation and maintenance, which several governments have to take responsibility for. With regard to the Bondevik government's experimentation with the outsourcing of core competence at the Railway Agency, I would argue that it was directly irresponsible to eject such a unique competence as it takes time to rebuild, without a market to accept. But if we don't agree on the historical picture, I hope at least we agree that the railway effort must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1136	I understand that I have helped to extend the debate a little bit, and that it may have been because of my pointing out that the government parties should also relate to the facts when they mention the effort they constantly misjudge that they have fulfilled their national transport plan. So now, the Bondevik II government increased the railway appropriations by over 50 pst. seen in relation to what Stoltenberg I delivered. That's why I have absolute ground for calling it a historic bet. When we also did a number of structural interventions that the users of the railway, the road users, are very satisfied with, with which the freight distributors are very pleased, yes, I think we can allow ourselves to call it a success. But the red-greens are dissatisfied with all the structural measures that are moving towards privatisation or competition. What Irene Johansen forgets to say is that while someone was redundant at the Railway Agency, a new company was created to take care of the same tasks, i.e. track service. Then it becomes a bit funny to be taught that if the competence disappears from the public and from the private sector, yes, the competence disappears! That's a strange reasoning. It sounds to me like the position is satisfied with what we see this day, and then they're actually the only ones that depend on the railway, which has that opinion, I think. We see that there are major deficiencies, and to blame it for trying to put off competition and get more efficient operation of both maintenance and other railway tasks, is a bombardment in the night.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1143	It wasn't very strange that the representative Rudihagen was going to take up exactly what I said in the introduction of my post, that we from this pulpit would probably experience arguments that the Progress Party has cut the appropriations for the railway in connection with the treatment of the state budgets. I was honest and said that we actually did. But we have also looked at giving the Government new tools in its toolbox that can be used on rail and infrastructure construction, and that at least we believe are important tools to ensure a really good deployment and infrastructure. Both in 2006 and 2007, the Progress Party proposed the establishment of an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion, which would provide a return on road, broadband and rail of approx. NOK 10-12 billion, i.e. approx. EUR 3 billion for rail and public transport, which means DKK 1.8 billion more than the billion this Government has added to in the context of the 2008 state budget. In the context of the revised budget, we have also proposed to increase the allocation of cross-rails, precisely to increase the capacity of freight traffic in order to ensure the alarming need of business. So because the capacity is now detonated on several of the routes, we want to take immediate action in relation to the revised budget to develop new crossing tracks for freight traffic. So it's about having tools in the toolbox. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like the Government is willing to use all of these good tools that we are now giving the Government the opportunity to use. This proposal that we are discussing today is one of the tools. The second is a proper infrastructure fund that will ensure a proper development of infrastructure with over 10-12 billion kroner to road, rail, public transport and broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1152	This debate has gradually developed a little strange in relation to the starting point, I thought. Let's ask the question: would there have been more railway bet if the Bondevik II government and the Progress Party had managed? If an answer to that question is based on what happened when the national transport plan was signed, everyone knows the answer. There had been a poorer bet on the railway. So it's important to say once again that a good advice to the voters is to keep these parties out of the office if one is to get more stakes on the railway, just as it's important for the climate policy as a whole. The best climate policy outcome is when the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are out of government offices. See for yourself the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party in the bet on climate! What is the result? I thought those who were in the Bondevik II administration should calm down a little while when the cigar was loose. It's easy so that one doesn't have any very good accounting to refer to for the railway. We have a lag in this government because of a poor budget that was provided by the Bondevik II government, and we're working on fixing it. So we're going to have an even better railway effort than we have today. As case spokesman, I also think it's a little strange that a single ticker is that when there's a number of companies in the railways, BaneTele, Terminal operations, NSB, etc., which in a way won't take responsibility when there's a problem, for example. in Oslo, that one cannot then see a little critical of privatisation at all. That's what I thought was very strange. So this government is looking at how to organize this, because it thinks it can make more of a rail. in relation to node development, to make people bow and work so that there is less transport and more to climate. Many of these things work with us now, including how ownership can be better. For those who are busy with the railways and concerned with climate policy, my conclusion is: Keep this government going! Keep the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party out of government offices! It's good for the railway, and it's good for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1161	Øyvind Halleraker believes that the government party asks questions about the competence, and that he disappeared when transferring to private. No, we don't believe that. But why drain the public, the community, for good resources? When we hear the opposition talking, it's all the time under a deep distrust of the public, to add the community. There is no trust in competence. There is no trust in the feasibility. There is no trust in the organisation of what is managed by the community. I hope to add to the public sector hear what's being said, that everything gets so much better if you get in private. Some of us believe that good services can be organised within the community framework. Some of us believe that all of the thousands who are added to the public sector are actually competent, have good competence, and that there are leaders there who can direct them to do an efficient and good job. Several have been in the state of the railway in the Oslo area. Is there really anyone who thinks that this state has arisen because we have increased the rail budget by $1 billion? Is there anyone who thinks it's because we've collected most of these funds right in the Oslo area, with clear clues and clear directives to bet on the intercity triangle and on refurbishment and renewal in this area? The state has arisen because of lack of promises over many years, including the previous four-year period when the Bondevik II government put on the rudder - not because of increases in the last two years. I think it's going to be a little bit too silly not to realize that there's a debt division here. The railway has not been a priority. This government has started on a spin-off and has ambitions to continue the bet, because we see that the railway is important. The railway is probably just for 5 pst. of the carriage of passengers. The road stands for the rest. But precisely because the railways are so important in the populous areas of Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, we are primarily investing in passenger transport in these areas, and we are also investing in freight transport on the long distances. It's a forward-looking bet, and it's going to keep the government going.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1168	This debate has grown considerably. I would like to remind you that it was not the opposition parties who took the term ‘greedy gift’ in their mouth. The minister did. Then you have to assume that you get an answer with the same slope. On the opposition side, we have over a long time listened to a minister who owes her to the previous government when she comes into a needed position. It also does the minister's staff, time after time. Here it was pointed out that there is a backlog on the other side of NOK 1 billion. The Christian People's Party has boasted of the Government for offensive bets on transportation, but one must be willing to admit that on the railway side you have not fulfilled the promises you made. It doesn't hold to blame for the poor budget of the Bondevik government. We didn't make the same promises. We have to admit that. We did not give the same promises as the parties that are now in government. It was also reflected in the last budget of the Bondevik Government. We had to expect that those who took over kept their promises and studied what was going on in relation to promises, and that was what we have today. It has nothing to do with the gift of fear when you point it out. Then to the Progress Party and their proposals. I said it might have something to do with a bad conscience. I see it doesn't. It is, in my opinion, a purely demonstration proposal. Why do I say that? Yes, the right asked for the possibility to be allowed to vote for parts of the proposal. The answer from the Progress Party was: No, this is a package. We want you to vote all over the package. This is something that we sometimes try to engage in dialogue with the Progress Party, experience over and over again. When we offer support, they go one step further with their proposal, and then we cannot support it. At the same time, when a desire is called for to reach an overall opposition, I call for the will of the Progress Party to be open to cooperation where cooperation is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1178	The railway is for the users, and if we're going to put the consumers in the center, there's at least a very uninteresting debate who has done what, and who has the debt and responsibility for one thing or another. But when the Progress Party and the Right began to boast so enormous of their own efforts in the previous period and at the same time is so dissatisfied with and critical of what this government has done, one could not avoid dragging up a debate on what has happened both in the previous period and now. When asked if we are satisfied with today's situation, my answer is that we are not satisfied with today's situation at all. There is someone who has said before me that we should be proud, but not content. We are so absolutely proud of what has happened to the railway, both when it comes to the licenses and the huge increase in traffic that has been, especially on the freight transport. In case of long distances, e.g. between Oslo and Bodø, actually goes 80 pst. of the goods on the railway, Oslo-Bergen 60 pst. and Oslo-Trondheim 50 pst. There are probably a lot of people who are going to have the honor of it, but at least there's something we have reason to be proud of in this room. When you look at today's operating problem and what it brings to passengers, there's no reason to be content -- it should just be missing. And when you see that the capacity on the railway network is blown up on both freight and then it starts to be on passenger transport, you can see that you can't be happy with it. There are solid challenges, challenges that require us to build double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals in time to solve them. Then we're a little bit over what was kind of the topic of the whole debate: how are we going to organise ourselves to do this in the best possible and most effective way? It's the railway station that's primarily our tool to get it done. I then pointed to a clear relationship, and it is that the Railway Agency must strengthen its competence. At least that's the message we get from the Railway Agency itself. One of the reasons is so clear that in today's press market it is not easy for the Railway Agency to purchase and acquire that competence, for those who can do this have completely different jobs and have already disappeared into other jobs. The second point we're going to look at is: should the Railway Agency continue as a management body, or should we turn it into a state limited liability company - a corporation? Then, as many have pointed out here, in such a reorganization, we lose valuable political governance. But one thing is to do within today's system, and that's to open up the railway station on the same line as the State Road Service. So I would like to say a little bit about project financing, but I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1195	Irene Johansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1198	The facts are important, and that's what I tried to get. It becomes wrong when the representative Halleraker tries to present it as if there is no development of the railway today, and that the situation in relation to the maintenance of the railway and the slowdown that has caused the disruptions today is due only to the current government. The railway works themselves point out that this is due to years of down-priority of the railway. The railway system and the NSB say they are pleased with the increased resources of the railway they receive with this government. Those who use the railway are satisfied. We saw that from the customer satisfaction survey when we were visiting the NSB. Of course, no one is satisfied with the disruptions that we are experiencing now, but it falls on their own unfairness when we hear the representative Halleraker only owes to today's government and takes no responsibility for the miscarriage of the previous government, that there is a contributing cause for today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1203	Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1206	I could ask for the word of a manifest misunderstanding, for the Council of State almost made it appear that communion was synonymous with public servants. It's not like that. Community is what we do together to create, both private and public employees. Community is also the same as, among other things. employees of the NSB, as they themselves describe it, now feel competitive, when, after a restructuring, they are now in a position where they appeal to customers, and customers stream to the offer they have to make. Then to Irene Johansen. We recognize everything we've been on, including within the railway. But we can't get away from the fact that we had managed to organize ourselves in another way that had also given us a competitive situation related to operations and maintenance tasks, and that had also given top skills for those tasks, we would probably have been in a different situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1213	I had an errand in the Chamber pending new matters, and I must say that there was a debate that was tempting to attach some views to, since I had the pleasure of being the party leader of the Minister of Transport in the previous government, to which I understand it would be very bold to stand here and defend the efforts of. I want to point to some important issues. The problems that are at the railway station today, I think many governments are going to take responsibility for. There are generations of neglect when it comes to investment in railway infrastructure that brings you to a point where it is so worn out that it is becoming a big problem. It administers today's Minister of Transport, that's right. It coincides in time with the fact that the labour market for skilled engineers and technicians with which the railway system is full is very demanding. And then it's tough within a traditional organization to keep the workforce. When we talk about the railway sector, I would like to point out that what it might seem most from the previous period is a reorganization that makes the NSB now a company that has great profits, which has flexibility and is capable of investing in, investing in and renewing railway equipment. It has to do with organization. It is quite essential to succeed in creating organisations that are willing to bet and get it done. One has, to the extent of this debate, also been within the reorganization that took place in Vegvesenet and Mesta, another reorganization that today's Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, here from this pulpit has now been very supportive, saying that it gave great success precisely because the production part was separated, and because those who previously worked in a monopoly company had to compete in a much more flexible business. Everyone who has followed this development sees that the old state road system, today called Mesta, has modern, great equipment, enthusiasm and entrepreneurship. It was said by the Ministry of Finance that a obtained road, maintenance and new production for 850 million. kr more in that reorganisation. The question we're facing here is: should the railway works continue in the old way just because we have a government that won't think again in any areas, but reap the benefits of the renewal that happened in Vegvesen, through Mesta, through reorganization, by getting more money for one, and reaping the benefit of having an NSB that is able to invest and earn money and even pay dividends to its owners? The big question is, what happens to the Railway Agency? If nothing happens, these four years with today's Minister of Transport will be the period when there were huge problems in the Railway Agency. That's what's going to be the story. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1226	No one else got to the challenge. Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 6 is over. [[Fotation, see page 2339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1241	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2340]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1256	No one has asked for the floor. The size thank the Minister of Finance for coming to the hall. [[See page 2340]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1264	Then the Storting is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1288	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote Kyoto measures in line with the proposal in Document No. 8:97 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1315	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Hanne Dyveke Sweets on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 3, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 4, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, during the debate has been turned into a transmission proposal and says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government launch a wild-cleaning, open-air and business-development survey based on different scenarios in the restoration of the Brain Facilities. It is recommended that the Government inform the Storting appropriately about the results of the survey and the future status of the Snowheim Road during the 2012 harvest session.» The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. - It is deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the planned removal of Snøheimwegen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1352	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to immediately reverse the decision to remove the more than 100-year-old Snøheimweg from Hjerkinn to Snøheim on Dovrefjell.’ The voting boards showed that 87 votes were cast in favour and 16 against the proposal from the Right. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.49.15]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1364	There must be 88 votes in favour. The president was too late to vote. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to reverse the decision on the removal of the Snowheim Road and to leave all parts of the management of the road to the Dovre Mountain Council or the Dovre Municipality, when the Defense no longer needs to dispose of the road for clearing/recovery purposes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1450	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 2, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The decision requires the Government to instruct the taxi centres to store all shunting and driving data for 10 years and to make them available to official control authorities. 2nd@item: inlistbox The decision requests the Government to impose an obligation on the holders of rights to be associated with a taxi centre. 3rd@item: inlistbox The decision requests the Government to carry out multi-car ownership tests.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1481	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the Government to carry out an overall review of the framework conditions in the taxi industry and to provide the Storting with appropriate measures such as: (a) ensure the safe operation of the legislation; (b) ensure the flexibility and market adaptation of free and modern activities; (c) provide for a modernised professional transport law.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1521	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Authority to organise the Railway Agency as a State company or public limited liability company in order to facilitate a faster and more socio-economic development and maintenance of an efficient, secure and environmentally friendly rail network in Norway, based on today’s railway concept. The government asks the Government to assume that the company will receive long-term low-interest government loans for its projects and that the company's expenditure on interest and repayment of such loans will be covered by the annual government budgets.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own case to the Stortinget without delay with information and evaluation of the professionally justified input from the trade unions related to the proposal for NTP 2010-2019 on the recommended financial framework for, respectively. investments and maintenance. The Storting stresses that this applies to the State Road Administration, the Swedish Railway Agency, the Avinor and the Coastal Works.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement exceptional measures to reduce vulnerability and improve the quality of the Oslo network. The following actions are implemented: 1st@item: inlistbox On Cape. 1350 item 23 Operation and maintenance The railway station is granted 100 million. kr. to the necessary immediate measures. This amount is covered by the revised national budget for 2008. 2nd@item: inlistbox With the use of international consultants, the analysis of the Oslo network is carried out with the corresponding proposals for the necessary measures. 3rd@item: inlistbox On the basis of such a consultation, the Grand Duchy shall be assisted by proposals for action and the corresponding additional appropriations.’;» These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-2.ana.ud1267e1640	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
