ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e35	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and divided by 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity for a change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e42	The experience of the patient representatives suggests that the need for assistance is at least as high in the municipal health service, where in fact 90 pst. by the healthcare services, as in the area of responsibility of the specialist health service. Last year the patient ombudsman received 2,200 enquiries relating to a lack of community health services, and, as I know, they have also in many cases tried to help, even if this was not their responsibility yet. Patients’ representatives shall work to address the needs, interests and legal certainty of patients and users towards the State specialist healthcare and community health and social services in order to safeguard the rights of patients and users and to improve the quality of these services. At the meeting of the State Health Authority in 2007, the members of the Health and Care Committee were informed that references from the State Health Authority to systemic deficiencies both in the specialist health service and in the municipal health service led to little conversion of routines, and that the organisations were too little learners. The Committee now expects healthcare at both levels of administration to take the concerns of the patient representatives about the lack of serious offers and weaknesses and to systematically work for improvements. The Committee supports the legislative proposal now presented by the Government on a patient ombudsman scheme covering both specialist and community health services, and the majority, with the exception of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, supports the exclusion of Chapter 5 of the Social Services Act on Economic Social Welfare and Chapter 5A Qualification Programme and Qualification Aid. The members of the Government of the Parties to the Committee ask the Government to consider this under the same regime, but the Progress Party believes that it should be kept out of the way and that it is not time to consider new extensions until it sees whether the scheme is functioning according to the intention of the new tasks now being assigned. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left make it clear that especially older caregivers and other groups that may have difficulty in obtaining adapted services in the community health service need to be provided with good assistance, and that matters are dealt with quickly and continuously. It is, as the members of these parties see it, important that all those who need it receive prompt help, and that rejection of matters takes place only on the basis of a professional assessment and not on the basis of excessive labour pressure or lack of resources. Manning needs estimates have been made, assuming that an extension of the scheme will mean that 110 000 people currently receiving municipal health and social services will be included in the new scheme. The Progress Party assumes that, in addition, the scheme will also target an uncertain number of care and caregivers who do not currently receive the service to which they are entitled. Therefore, the number of new posts, as the Progress Party sees it, must be significantly higher from the start than the 25 proposed and for which the other lots are in favour. The representative of the patient and the user shall have the right to comment on matters falling within the scope of the Ombudsman’s work and to propose concrete measures for improvement, but the opinions shall not be binding. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party see that this can be a major weakness of the Ombudsman's own system, and therefore believes that sanctions should be imposed on the Ombudsman when there is a lack of service and a clear breach of rights, and that this must lead to penalties in cases where the responsible do not follow up. I would particularly like to stress that the Progress Party has on several occasions made proposals for its own senior care agency and for its own representative for mentally retarded people. These proposals have never received a majority in Stortinget. But the ombudsman system we have proposed for mentally retarded people has been supported by the Christian People's Party. The Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe it is important that there should also be an outreach activity, so that people with mental retardation are well cared for. The party knows that there are major gaps in care for the elderly, and that in many cases elderly caregivers have difficulty in meeting their demands. The new patient ombudsman regime is not the main wish of the Progress Party, but we want to go further in favour of the bill, as the proposals for our own representatives that we have promoted in the last year have not received a majority. The Progress Party sees that by establishing a general system over fragmented ombudsman schemes based on diagnosis groups and age, it will be a challenge to ensure that all equivalent assistance is provided. Older caregivers and groups unable to express their own service needs, including those with developmental disabilities, dentures and others unable to attend to their own interests, must be guaranteed a formalised user representative. The Progress Party also believes that the name should be ‘patient and elderly care services’, as many who want to use this scheme will be older. The Progress Party has also proposed that the County Dental Service be included in the scheme already now. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e74	The representative, Vigdis Giltun, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e77	In the Labour Party, we are now very pleased that the patient ombudsman scheme is being extended to users of municipal health and social services. Without a doubt, we think it's right -- based on what we now know -- that so many of the requests that come to the patient representative relate to the community health service, and that the need seems to be increasing. We have listened to the experiences pointed out by the patient representatives. The experience is that the need for assistance is at least as great in the community health service as it was in the specialist health services, as the rapporteur also pointed out. Experience has shown that many users, and more and more older, are in contact with several health services in both first- and second-line services, as the Committee has also noted in its position. It'll be good when it's possible to get help in one place. However, we believe that it is difficult to get a clear picture of how much the increase in requests will be when the scheme is extended and better known to the population. These developments need to be closely monitored, including: to see how resource-intensive this work really is. We believe it is right that the scheme is properly evaluated after two years, as the ministry has proposed. We know that both in Larvik and in Hamar there has been a trial project over many years with an extended patient ombudsman system. This is something the municipalities have arranged on their own initiative. The services are purchased from the patient representative of the counties. All the information we have in hand shows that there has been good experience with these projects, and that it has to be seen as successful. The increased use of the scheme also shows the experience of these municipalities. I hope that the experience from both Hamar and Larvik can be seen as a good experience that we can take into account in the further work, when we are now to expand this system. In the Workers' Party, we are concerned that the Patient Ombudsman scheme should represent good quality and a high level of competence. In addition, of course, we are concerned that this system should be well available to those in need of assistance. The Health Committee is made clear that there are different opinions on the name of the extended scheme. Our opinion is that the "patient agent" is a well-informed concept. Everyone embraces it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e92	The right has always been concerned with the legal certainty of individuals, and an extension of the patient ombudsman regime will strengthen legal certainty for many people. Clearly, many public service employees make a formidable effort every day. But it's just as clear that people every day are being subjected to injustice by the administration that was really supposed to help them. This is clear from the supervisory reports of the Health Authority, both from the specialist health service and from the local health service. Many who become dependent on help are often quite powerless towards bureaucracy. In this way, the current extension of the patient Ombudsman regime will ensure that more people are helped to uphold their rights to administration. That's good. However, what is alarming in this case is that government parties will close the door to the representative of social clients. Economic social assistance and qualification support under the Social Services Act shall not fall within the scope of the new patient ombudsman’s work. This is particularly alarming in view of the fact that social clients are among those most vulnerable to legal security. The state’s full supervision points out in its consultation response that complaints of social welfare decisions constitute the majority of complaints to the country’s county councillors. Enquiries on such cases also constitute the bulk of the cases dealt with by the Health and Social Ombudsman in Oslo. At the same time, the Civil Ombudsman, by letter of 27 July 2007 to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, pointed out that there are specific legal security challenges in the management of social welfare. It is also a fact that social welfare constitutes the lowest social security network in our welfare systems. This means that social welfare is the last way out for those who cannot provide their own living. Social clients are the group most often experiencing poverty. Therefore, as recipients of social assistance, there is an extremely vulnerable situation towards administration. It therefore appears completely incomprehensible that this group should not be assisted by the new ombudsman to care for his interests. When we know that there were 10,000 more poor people after a year of red-green government, there are a lot of people who want to meet closed doors at the new ombudsman. The reason for excluding financial benefits from the Ombudsman’s work is that legal certainty mechanisms should be investigated in the light of the NAV reform. On the right, however, we believe that the consideration of users must be more important than the consideration of the administrative challenges here. It is also worth noting that NAV itself is going in to integrate the financial benefits into the new ombudsman scheme. In fact, the majority, as many as 31 hearing bodies, agree with the Right that the recipients of social assistance should receive help from the new ombudsman. These include the Health Inspectorate and the Health Directorate, the Department’s leading specialist bodies in the field. In Right-Handed Oslo, social clients have long been offered help from the health and social ombudsman. The right would have liked social clients in other municipalities to have an equally good order, and we find it incomprehensible that the government parties do not agree with this. Finally, I would like to challenge the government parties to respond to why bureaucratic considerations are more important than consideration for those who need help. Furthermore, I would challenge them to explain why these users cannot get help from the new ombudsman until another scheme is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e107	Does the President wonder if the representative should make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e110	Yes, I'm addressing proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e115	The representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e118	A patient representative is needed for people receiving municipal health and care services. There are increasing numbers of older people, and people with chronic diseases are still living longer. Many of these are totally dependent on the help of others, and are therefore dependent on them. They can't always fight for their own cause. Furthermore, many relatives are very tired after fighting for their child, mother or father to have it safe and sound. For them too, there will be an extra security with an agent fighting for valuable services. In many individual cases, it is a matter of seeing the whole, and of seeing the cases from the point of view of patients and their relatives. One example is an elderly lady who fell out of bed at a nursing home in Oslo, without a doctor being contacted, and where the family did not get information about what had happened. This is not an exceptional case, and the senior officer in Oslo pointed out in this context that there is a major problem for elderly people in nursing homes that they do not receive sufficient information. The parental representative in Oslo also made an assessment of the treatment given to the woman, and could take general consideration of the case accident regarding the needs of the elderly. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal, but cannot, like some others, see any reason why Chapter 5 of the Social Services Act on Economic Social Welfare and Chapter 5A Qualification Programme and Qualification Aid is excluded from the new Ombudsman scheme. In cases where legal certainty for users of municipal services is deferred, there is a need for some to speak their case. 31 of the Hearing Authorities, including the Directorate for Social and Health, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare, the Norwegian Medical Association and the State Health Authority, disagree on the omission of Chapter 5 of the Social Services Act, on financial benefits, with reference to legal certainty, internal control obligations and overall services, and also with reference to the need for an ombudsman system in the field of health and social protection. The Christian People's Party believes that administrative reforms should not affect the legal certainty of the recipients. We have previously supported the proposal for a separate representative for mentally retarded people, since these are a particularly vulnerable group. Outreach activities for this group will be an important measure to ensure their legal certainty. The Christian People's Party believes, like the Progress Party, that an agent should be able to have the possibility of sanctioning in order to put greater pressure behind his references to violations of rights, so that they are promptly remedied. The right to dignity in the care of the elderly has been clarified by the Christian People's Party through a proposal to introduce a guarantee of dignity. This was supported by both government parties and the Left by the agreement on the care of the elderly last autumn. The Christian People's Party looks forward to a swift follow-up of this. Central to a guarantee of dignity is a real right to appeal if the basic needs are not met. A key task for a patient ombudsman will also be to ensure that a dignity guarantee in the care of the elderly is met. Finally, people with chronic disease and injury must be guaranteed worthy treatment and care, and the Christian People's Party sees the extension of the patient Ombudsman's system as a step in the right direction to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e137	The country’s patient representative received more than 11,000 new enquiries in 2007. This shows that the patient representatives have an important role to play. Not everything in the specialist health service works well enough. It's interesting to review the patient representatives' annual reports, and here are some things I'll comment on first: Patient representatives point out that violations of patients’ rights are most often easy to rectify when someone comes in and takes up the case. At the same time, patients’ representatives point out that such corrections in individual cases lead to little systematic learning and that the same type of violation of rights is repeated too often. The fact that hospital organisations are too small as learning organisations also points out the State’s health oversight. We heard that when we were there with the committee. I believe that this must be an important topic in the future in the specialist health service, for example. to ensure better patients’ rights. In its joint annual report on increased numbers of drug and psychiatry enquiries, the patient ombudsmen continue to write. These patient groups have been strengthened in recent years. The requests concern assistance for the fulfilment of rights, such as the right to necessary health care, the setting of individual treatment deadlines, the choice of treatment site and the right to participation and information. Patients’ representatives point out that healthcare does not have sufficient knowledge of the Patient Rights Act. In today’s Odelsting to decide to extend the patient ombudsman’s remit to users of municipal health and social services, more than 110000 people receiving municipal health and social services will be covered by the Patient Ombudsman scheme. The central party believes that the bill supports the process of raising the quality of health and social services. Patients’ representatives shall work to meet the needs, interests and legal certainty of patients and users, both in relation to the State specialist healthcare and municipal health and social services, and to improve the quality of these services. It will be difficult to predict the extent to which the increase in referrals to the patient representatives will be when the patient representative system is now extended and known among users. The centre party therefore believes that 25 new annual works are a satisfactory number of new posts, which means that Oslo and the four largest counties are further strengthened. It is important that developments in the number of enquiries are closely followed, so that patient and user representatives can continue to do the Ombudsman’s work in caring for the needs, interests and legal certainty of patients and users in a good manner and thus be involved and ensure the quality of both the specialist healthcare and community health and social services. It is therefore essential that the extension of the scheme be evaluated after two years, as proposed by the Ministry. In the context of the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to include financial benefits under Chapter 5 of the Social Services Act, it is said that we believe that there is a need for a comprehensive review of different legal security arrangements for users of the NAVs and that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has set up a working group to assess different aspects of the legal security systems for users of NAVs, including – and the representative Sjøli should note this – a separate welfare agency for the labour and welfare management. On this basis, the parties to the Government will wait to decide on the issue of an extension of the patient ombudsman regime to the financial benefits until a recommendation from the Ministry is made. We do not therefore reject the inclusion of Chapter 5 on social benefits under an ombudsman scheme, but, as I said, we will also consider whether it should actually be a separate welfare agency for the management of employment and welfare. So it is not certain that, among other things, The representative, Mr Sjöli, is the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e153	It's actually a happy thing we have on the map here. We had a good half an hour ago as well, so we've had two things within our area in an hour, and I think that's pretty good. It's also a joy for many patients, and that's what it's all about. And the fact that we so clearly focus on them in these two matters, I thought I was well worth mentioning in particular. We in the Left are at least very happy that the patient housing system is now being extended to the municipal health and social services, and we think it's high time. We don't mean that we're going to have an infinite amount of work to do. I think we've talked about what we need, and I want to signal that I think it would be better to incorporate the ones that the representative, Mr. Sjøli in particular, was in, instead of having even more work to do. I think that's the best strategy. I'm going to come back a little bit to the exact proposal, which the left is also on. The fact that we are now receiving health and social services under a patient care system is important, also because we will have a focus on municipal health and social services. It's a different focus. We are in a way involved in increasing the relative status, in using that expression, in relation to the specialist services, and I think that is also important, not least in the debate on health services, where we are now talking about how to solve this huge resource issue, where we are going to bet the most resources, etc. Should it be at primary level, or should it be at high technology level? As someone has said here, it's probably about 110,000, so there's a lot of people, and it's a great deal of progress to get this group into this system. As mentioned, I want to come back to what the representative, Sjæli in particular, was busy with. The left is with the Right and the Christian People's Party when it comes to proposal No. 1 in the configuration, that the economic benefits under Chapter 5 of the Social Services Act must be covered by the new patient and user environment’s work. I understand that there is no plurality today, but I understood it so on the representative of the Skjärlaa that there is at least something going on here, and I have, as I said, signaled what the Left thinks about it. So we think that they should be included, and that one should not create even more burdens. That's at least what's our point of view right now. I also refer to the common comment in the right, Christian People's Party and the left on this issue. However, I note that there is a collection of noblest things behind the main issue in this setting, namely an extension of the patient housing system to, as it were, the municipal health and social services. That's after all the most important things, even though we don't think she's perfect. Then you just have to see how the implementation is going to be. I expect the Council of State will say something about it in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e170	This is an important day, because the proposal for amendments to the Patient Rights Act, which is supposed to be adopted here in Odelstinget today, will strengthen legal certainty for many users of municipal health and care services. As is known, the first patients’ representatives were established in 1984 and became a national scheme in 2001. Since then, we've had an agent in every state. Until now, the scope has been limited to public specialist health services, and not least to user organisations, the representatives of the maritime sector and the Stortinget have called for an extension of the scheme to include municipal health and care services. Patient representatives have become an important contact between patients and healthcare services. It is a recognition that not all users have knowledge of how to find out in our health system. One of the ombudsmen's tasks is to help them do this, and the experience with the scheme is very good. We see that the number of enquiries also increases among patients and users of municipal health and social services. It is incomprehensible to many of the respondents that the scope is confined to the public specialist health services. In particular, these patients need long-term follow-up from multiple service levels. That's why I think it's very gratifying that there's a unanimous committee that joins the Government's proposal, except for the proposal that I've noticed, which is about economic benefits in the Social Services Act. The government also sees that there may be arguments to include the cap. 5 and 5A of the Social Services Act. The Minister for Labour and Inclusion has now appointed a separate working group to review the various legal security issues related to NAV, including: the question of a separate welfare agency, as also the representative Mr Schjélaa had to say. I do not want to advance what that working group is going to propose today, but the door is not closed in order to incorporate this at a later stage. The same applies to the desire to integrate dental health into the duties of the patient and the user ombudsman. The Committee's agreement to the Regeringen proposal means that more than 210000 people receiving municipal health and social services will benefit from the patient ombudsman scheme, i.e.: older people, disabled people, people with mental or drug problems and others. If this is adopted, they can now contact the patient’s representative, regardless of whether they receive municipal services or hospital treatment. Patient representatives have also been asked to be alert to those who are unable to express their own needs for care, including those with developmental disabilities. The government has clarified the need for one ombudsman system over several ombudsman systems based on diagnosis or user groups. We believe that fragmented schemes will only create further confusion. A general ombudsman system will also contribute to the pooling of knowledge and competences in one place. We also think that's better for the users. It is an important milestone that the patient and user ombudsman will now also include municipal health and care services, and that this extension will relate in particular to users who need complex services and long-term follow-up. I am very pleased with the decision that I understand Odelstinget will soon make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e187	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e195	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e203	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2-6, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first deal with the proposal No. 3-6. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a formalised user representative for persons who are unable to meet their own needs for services, including age and persons with mental retardation, in the context of the patient and user environment regime. ‘... Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that sanctions are provided for the new Patient and User Ombudsman. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the new patient and user Ombudsman regime with several posts so that the waiting time for handling cases does not increase. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of dental care in the new patient and user Ombudsman scheme. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then refer to voting proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal concerns the name selection of the new agent. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient rights shall be capped. 8 the term ‘patient and elderly care services’ is replaced by ‘patient and user care services’. [[2007-2008]] [[at]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e428	Section 8-2, first paragraph, third sentence, a proposal, no. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient rights, the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8-2 shall be replaced by the following: For the purposes of this chapter, municipal health services are defined by Law No 19 November 1982. 66 on the health care of municipalities, with the exception of Chapter 4a of the Act, and social services under Law No 13 December 1991. 81 on social services etc. ‘... The President will first vote alternately between this proposal and the third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8-2 of the recommendation from the Committee. Thereafter, the remainder of I, as well as the whole of II and III of the Committee's recommendation will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e453	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e462	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-08-lower.ana.ud2513e473	There is no record available. Thus, the matters on today's map are processed.
