ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e22	The representative Ivar Kristiansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e25	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on the strategy for increased upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e30	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e33	I have the pleasure and honour, on behalf of the representatives of André N. Skkelstad, Vera Lysklattit and myself, to promote a proposal for a representative to prevent the number of young debt slaves, the number of forced sales and bankruptcys in housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e38	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e64	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete State Council Anniken Huitfeldt State Council Helga Pedersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e83	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Norway needs a transport promise. In particular in the road sector, there is a high maturity, maintenance kit and a lack of capacity. The Norwegian road system appears to be inefficient, uncertain and less environmentally friendly. National road capital is disintegrating in the world's richest country. Tunnels are poorly secured. Yesterday we were told that the Railway Agency does not have control of the train safety. The maturity is shown in many ways, including: through a dramatic increase in traffic fatalities in March of this year and to date of this year. In the first three months of the year, 64 people lost their lives in traffic, compared with 44 in the same period last year. With a road network that is getting worse, there is a risk that this development will continue. I'm afraid as many as 300 people can die on Norwegian roads this year. We can do something about that. This government has provided the road sector with something more money than the previous government. That's good. But there are different governments in the last 30 years who have to take responsibility for the growing lag, even when the Senter Party has previously had the Minister of Transport. ‘Something’ is not close enough. Not a hint of 20 pst, either. in addition to the framework given for the preparation of a new national transport plan, it will be close enough. Norway needs a transport promise. We must be willing to invest heavily in Norwegian transport networks to reduce fatal accidents and strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the economy. Does the Minister for Transport have any new tools to provide Norway with a transport promise, a transport promise that can provide Norway with efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads, without having to wait either 30, 40 or 50 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e96	This government has already given the country a trade lift. We've done it as one in the previous period said was impossible. What the opposition said was air money, was put in as an addition, which was also the Progress Party in the compromise with today's government party. We've been overfilling road and track for two years. It's a lift, and it's a turnaround in relation to what's been going on for many years under changing governments. Nor is it the case that if the Progress Party has been involved in budgetary conciliation, it turns out once again when it is involved in trade. It doesn't. This government intends to continue its efforts in the field of commerce. How to do so, which means we are going to use, will fall within the scope of what is being examined by this government in the field, the national transport plan, to be submitted in December. The existing national transport plan was signed in the previous period, and we follow it up in relation to funds. The next ten-year period shall be drawn up in the national transport plan which we are currently preparing, where the counties now have a hearing until 30 April. But, as I said, the tools--the tools--I have to come back to December.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e105	I thank you for your answer. The government tool will lead us to spend between 30, 40 and 50 years getting an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway. I'm afraid we're getting a lot of fatal accidents on the roads before we get there. It doesn't help to refer to the Bondevik government, when many former governments have to blame for the lack of road development. It does not help to refer to a new national transport plan, where the Government has set a ten-fold annual budget in 2007 and suggests 20 pst. extra. Nevertheless, this can take 50 years before we get a real road map in Norway. What helps is to do as the Progress Party says: change the system, look at road development as an investment, use money from the oil return, government loans and project financing. Does the Council not see that, without new tools, Norwegian transport policy will appear to be the worst in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e116	I do not point to the Bondevik government in particular. I only established the fact that the existing national transport plan was drawn up in the previous period and signed. I also said that trade has been neglected for many, many years and also through many different governments. At least there are quite a few of us. The frame in the budgets is a technical calculation framework that is created in the same way as one has done in previous national transport plans, i.e. the last known budget, the 2007 budget, and then plus/minus 20 pst. What the government will end on in December, no one knows today, nor the Minister of Transport, for that discussion has not begun. Then we have enough ambitions, both the Minister of Transport, and certainly Blackevik, for what should be the framework when national transport plans are presented. I can promise that I will keep those frames so high that we will have a safe, secure and good transport network that will also be in line with the society we otherwise have in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e125	There will be follow-up questions - first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e128	In addition to the fact that there were major deficiencies and maintenance delays in Norwegian tunnels last year, we learned yesterday that very serious safety deficiencies have been identified at the railway station, and they are so serious that the railway supervision actually goes so far as to assess the closure of all railway traffic from 1 July due to a lack of control and control in dealing with the activities for which the railway station is responsible. This is very serious. It is known that there has been a conflict between the supervision and the Railway Agency over a period of time. But this cannot continue anymore, because it threatens passenger safety. Does the Council of State see that, in such circumstances, questions can be raised in the organisation of the railways in Norway and that immediate action must be taken to ensure that the train is safe for passengers to use? How will the State Council keep Stortinget informed about the safety of the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e135	The safety of the railway has the highest priority in the further development of the railway in Norway -- let it be absolutely clinking clear. The work on safety approval of the Railway Agency is a follow-up to an EU Directive. Throughout Europe, a now - parallel to what we do in Norway - is working to obtain written documentation of all processes in the construction, maintenance and operation of the network. It goes without saying that this is a demanding job. There are many thousand pages written, and more will probably be worth it. There is little experience from other countries, because there are only two countries in Europe, so far, that have such an approval of their network. We attach great importance to the railway works delivering what is required by the supervision. A deadline has been set for now in July - with a possible three-month extension of it - and I expect the railway works to do the job they are going to do. Of course, we should be briefing the Storing at conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e145	Jan Sahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e148	I noticed that the minister's rhetoric changes a little from time to time. Now it was said that the goal achievement is «overfilled» in the last two years, but the truth is that it is a lag over three years. But I want to focus my question about road safety, about the fact that we have increasing rates of accidents in traffic. In the 2008 downturn forecast, a total of 45 psts for the period 2006-2008 is estimated to have been achieved. in the case of road safety. Then my question to the Minister, who is very satisfied with the fact that the crown has been met: is she equally satisfied with the achievement of the goal in the field of road safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e155	As long as we have traffic accidents with severe damage and fatalities, a Minister of Transport cannot be satisfied. Nor can we be content that the goal achievement is not greater than it is. The reason for this is that we have a much larger growth in traffic than had been foreseen. There are also other ways in which the work I am going to do is that an existing national transport plan has a far too low forecast of traffic growth. We have a strong growth in traffic, especially in heavy goods transport. We work along a broad line to increase the effort when it comes to road safety, both towards the road body, towards the drivers and towards driving gear. All three areas are equally important, and we must continue to work intensively in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e162	Øyvind Halleraker - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e165	The Council of State is still referring to the Bondevik government. But the Bondevik government had to sort out the Norwegian economy and create competitive conditions for business before we could grant more to the public tasks. This government has $132 billion more to travel with than the Bondevik government had. So the maintenance run is calculated at 15 billion kroner by road and 5-6 billion kroner by rail. The response of the NTP proposal to these key challenges is a reduction in investment. The right has launched another solution. We want a maintenance fund both for the maintenance tasks that are imminent and for those that are from the past, with an annual return that can solve these tasks. Will the Council of State support such a maintenance fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e172	First of all, the number of billions mentioned by the representative is uncertain as one would have had the community at its disposal if the right-wing government had continued, because then one had to expect that they would have continued the fiscal policy, which had brought these funds into the private wallets and not out on the road. That being said, I also record a lot of creativity for the time being with regard to financing the commercial project and maintenance, and that's good. It is a good thing that culture has come on the agenda both in many parties and in many forums. But it's about the seventh and last thing about allowing enough money. Whether they're in a fund, whether they're in project finance, or they're in OPS, they're kind of inconsequential, because there's no free lunch. It is due at some point in time. So Ergo is the important question: is there a political will to allow more money? This government has shown that we have that will.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e179	Borghild Tenden - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e182	My question also concerns road safety. As the Council of State itself said, the car density has increased. Trucks have grown in size and buses have grown in size. This goes beyond the already congested roads that rage out. In the state council's own home state, Sogn and Fjordane, the discussion goes high about Dalsfjordbrua - a project approaching DKK 1 billion, which has too low annual traffic to finance tolls. This may be at the expense of road safety on roads known to the Council of State as rv. 60, rv. 609 and the Lote Tunnel. Former State Council for Forestsholm prioritised road safety. Will the Council of State not overrun local democracy, but engage in dialogue with its own parties and give priority to road safety at the expense of large-scale projects of excellence?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e191	We're in a hearing process, where the county has to express its priorities in relation to the next national transport plan. In respect of that process, I do not intend to go into and discuss individual projects, nor those relating to my own home country, although, naturally, after ten years in the county, I have good knowledge of the different projects and priorities there. We'll have time to discuss these priorities in time. Let it just be clear: I'm going to put a lot of emphasis on the priorities from the regional level, both from Sogn and Fjordane and from other countries. It is important that we listen to those who have their daily work in the county. It's the best people know the challenges, and it's the best that can give us the best advice on what we should prioritise in the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e198	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e201	I also have a question for the Minister for Transport. The draft national transport plan was presented on 17 January. The lack of investment in new investment is a major problem across the country. Of course, it is possible to do something about this when the Government will present its proposal to the Stortinget during December. The Minister of Transport boasts of the increased appropriations and the enormous effort that has been made, calling it a journey promise. But as the representative Halleraker said, this government has got over NOK 132 billion more to go with. Very little of this helps to improve a worn-out transport sector. In fact, the share of the state budget for transport has fallen from 2.3 pst. in 2005 to 2.15 pst. in 2008. Then it's important to be creative. The comfort of many red-green politicians has been the Soria Moria declaration, which says: «The Government will: - fund projects for the continuous development and modernisation of new road and rail sections.» This gave many people hope that they would think untraditionally. But in 2007 in the state budget, the government itself said: ‘The Government considers that investments in the road and rail sectors should continue to be granted in accordance with the budgetary principles in force and that no debt financing scheme should therefore be established.’ Then we have a draft NTP on the table, where both the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration want to use that type of funding, either project financing or OPS, Public Private Cooperation. Then we have an evaluation on the table of three OPS projects showing half-time construction, with the savings it has for road users and businesses. Is it the phobia of the Government and the Government against private solutions that the Government has not yet concluded in respect of OPS? Does the Council of State wish to contribute to the construction of roads at double speed, in a faster and more efficient way than we do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e227	I'm recording that the Right is still coming back to the available funds on the state budget. There's nothing to suggest that if the previous government had been sitting there, there would be more money for transportation. On the contrary, there was a lot of hares in this room when we added 1 billion more to the road and 1 billion more to the path. I'm sure that's what the representative of Greece thinks very well. Project funding can be a good way to finance a commercial project. The main evaluation of the OPS project was point 1 that there was no economic gain, but point 2 that there is a social gain through the faster implementation of the projects. I'm now working on how we can make use of that knowledge, so that we can get a greater social benefit for the future from the money we put into the transport sector. So far, we've started everything on that road. I'm now giving priority to launching projects and having full attention to them and their implementation instead of starting up many small projects, which are important enough individually, but which would lead to much later progress on the large projects. That means I'm getting a few fewer loops and opening a few fewer ways, but the projects that are being opened and started are at least giving me a full currency for the money. There is no phobia to project funding in the Government. We will also be sure to discuss it in the future until NTP is presented. As I have said before in this room, we shall come back to that matter. This government has no phobia against anything, but goes boldly into all things. I will also do so when it comes to project financing. I was yesterday at an exciting conference in the direction of the LO where the trade was on the agenda, and where the NHO was on the agenda. It is clear that the social partners are also extremely concerned that we should find a way of intensifying our behaviour. That's what I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e240	That's interesting. The council came in an answer here in the hall instead of Øyvind Halleraker with the slightly alarming statement that it is immaterial what kind of solution one chooses, only one grants the money. Now the Council of State says that it might actually be interesting to discuss both OPS and project financing. Does this not show that it is really very important what kind of tool a user should use when making the money go as far as possible? Just as OPS projects have made such rapid progress, there is a huge socio-economic gain. At a distance of three miles, E18 in Westfold, the State Road Administration spent 89 months completing the project. On a similar route, on the OPS project Grimstad-Kristiansand, the private developer spent 36 months completing the project. Does that not indicate that OPS is a good solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e247	What this shows is not necessarily that OPS needs to be such a good solution, because it binds funds into the future budget for transport for decades. What it shows is that making enough funds available when a project is agreed so that one can have continuous progress is important. That's the experience I'm working on right now, to look at how we're going to work on this in future transportation projects. When I instead said that it is unimportant what kind of tool a user is using, and now says that we should assess project funding, there are two aspects of the same thing. The point is that one has to put the money at the disposal. So in case of project financing, one has to pay for this over many years to come by budgeting, or one pays it year by year. That's the big difference. So these are two sides of the same thing. I'm open to discussing project finance, but we don't have to fool ourselves into believing that OPS is a sesame-sense. The bill must be paid. There's no free lunch.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e254	There will be follow-up questions - first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e257	In the right we think it is nice that the tax policy we conducted in the last period has given so much more to the Norwegian economy and given us the opportunity to allocate more to sensible tasks. It was OPS that was the theme. OPS or public project financing is competition. It's rather realization. It's a better economy. It is about private actors, and it is about flexible, state-owned schemes. So this is a system that works. We have seen three examples of this in Norway. The central party in Sweden, in the civil government, has major plans for reforms in the transport sector, while in this country we see an almost paralysis of action in all structural work in the transport sector. Is it the great ideological disagreement in the Government that we also see in this matter? Or is it simply a lack of will when one does not come up with a single pragmatic structural reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e266	We've seen e.g. in the state roadway after the reorganisation they had, what significant resources you need to use internally in organizations for reorganisation processes. I've been busy making use of the resources that we're currently using, and the resources that have been created are going to be used on the road, not on internal, new reorganization processes. As I said, we have just been through a major reorganisation in the state road system. When it comes to competition and OPS, it is the case today that all the contracts are competitive. I don't think the entrepreneurs that put in an offer will count whether it's the state road service that's a contractor, or whether there's a OPS project that they're going to be operating under their own control. I need to trust the industry that they're the same as the best price possible, and that one wants to get the offer. There is full competition today on all the major road and rail projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e271	Bord Hoksrud - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e274	I am recording that the Council of State is very concerned that there is no free lunch. We are, in fact, in agreement. However, it is likely that costs will be allocated over several years and not pay everything at once, so that more projects can be started. Right-wing requests for OPS projects. The government has said that they want project finance, even if it is temporarily suspended. For the Progress Party, not the most important thing is what it is called, but that it is actually the state that pays the whole bill for road construction and that there is a strong increase in the state appropriations for the development of the road and rail networks. Do the Governments agree that either OPS, project financing or funding can be fully financed by the State? And do the Council of State agree that by exploiting these possibilities, costs will be less bound to the annual budgets? Do the Governments also agree that such tools reinforce the impact of increasing investment and will contribute to a faster deployment of proven profitable transport projects that are over-ripe for the start-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e283	The question of whether tolls or not depend on the way they are financed, even if a person has demanded tolls on the OPS projects that have now been launched. An example is given, for example: from Sweden, where one has a type of loan office that makes money available to builders. So I can't see that one is going to exclude the other. On the other hand, when it's up to being bound to the annual budgets, I'm not the same thing. The three OPS projects that are now being built will cost you the annual budgets with millions of dollars -600 million. kr, I think, for a 20-year period. It's clear that it's tying up the annual budget. If we have ten such projects, we might have three billion kroner that will tie up the annual budget for ten years. If the frame doesn't increase, no means will be given to start a new project after a time. Therefore, I come back to what is my basic point on this issue, namely that it depends on the willingness to allow over the frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e290	Jan Sahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e293	A well-known person said, once, even the stones should cry out. Without comparison, and to put it this way: we see that it is not just politicians who are asking for new forms of contract, for OPS and project funding, but the levels do so in the national transport plan. They've looked at the challenges we're facing. They have put OPS projects into operation. Now they are asking for project finance and new forms of contract. I want to focus on the last one. I think it's exciting, the proposal in the NTP for new forms of contract, where one can therefore imagine seeing investment funds, maintenance funds and other financing in the context and outsourced the work to an entrepreneur over a 10-15 year period to get the road properly put in place. Does the Minister share such a view?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e301	I have previously called on the state road safety authorities to ensure that we see a change in the means of investment and maintenance. We have a project on rv. 3 where we run the width extension. Here's a little bit of a try. If we see the funds a little bit more in context, we can get a whole-scale development of a road where a piece might have to be a new road, while a big piece can be about improving the swings, i.e. the width extension of the road, and securing deferred points. There I found that the state road system was on a very good track. When it comes to how to finance this, there will be a dialogue and discussion that we will have to have in the future. But I thought the recordings that came from the State Road Service at this point were very interesting. Of course, we have a dialogue on this in the further work on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e308	Borghild Tenden - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e311	My question is also about getting more transportation for the money. The red-green ones stopped all forms of railway competition despite red-green rapporteurs on the Gjøvik track filling the Gjøvik track, which now has 40 pst. multiple take-offs, higher punctuality, greater regularity and better arranged for disabled persons. Similar experiences are also available from Denmark and Germany. Chief Einar Enger himself has said that getting competition, it sharpens you. Does the Minister for Transport see that increased competition can contribute to and have a positive impact on more and better rail and, for that matter, on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e322	There's a couple of lines going between the government of the day and the previous government, or the opposition, at this point. The confidence that even those who work in a community-based establishment, or the state, can do as good a job as those who work in private companies, is probably greater in the government party than in the opposition, which I experience has a strong distrust for what added to government enterprises can contribute. I mean that Gjøvikbana works well, it's very positive to pick up there. I have met with the director there to hear how a job works, and possibly get ideas from those who can be transferred to other railway operations. I'm open to listen to all the good ideas about how to get a better and more efficient railway. But it's not per. Today, there are plans for further rail sector competition on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e329	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e332	I have questions for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: In the hearing on the proposal for a new marriage law which was here at Stortinget on Monday, there was a great deal of concern about the future state of freedom of faith. In the proposal for a new marriage law, the government says that it is up to the Church to decide whether or not to marry a couple. At the same time, the government says that they hope the Church will change meaning and will vie gay and lesbian. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality has expressed this in the following way in our country: ‘I have the hope that religious religious communities will also be on the brink of these questions.’ The proposal for marriage law changes marriage in its basic structure. It is claimed that today's separation between marriage and partnership is discriminatory. If it is discriminatory to have a marriage law for the commitment of men and women, how long will it be legitimate, in a new state of law, to assert this traditional view without society having to break it down as discrimination? The National Association for Lesbian and Homophil Liberation believes that if a community of trusts, if they receive state aid, already today can't refuse to marry like-minded couples. Many church and trust societies experience a pressure from the Government to change their vision. They're also uncertain as to what consequences it's going to have foreshadowed that marriage is a relationship between man and woman. I have the following questions to the Council of State: Will it be regarded as discriminatory that a faith society will not dedicate lesbians and gays? And what consequences might this have when it comes to State aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e350	We have put forward proposals for a new marriage law, and I think it is important that everyone participates in the discussion about it. It is obvious that the Church has changed its view of homosexuals. In 1952, it was said that decriminalizing this would result in a horrendous amount of homosexuality. The Christian People's Party said when we adopted the partnership law in 1992, that this can be very unfortunate, it can lead to norm resolution in society. So I've seen from a lot of environments that here we've changed our vision. It is important that we, as citizens, have opinions on this. But when it comes to the question of whether we're going to oblige the Church to commit homosexuals, I'd say we're not going to do that. We respect the fact that the Church has internal discussions on this. We're going to participate in these discussions, it's important that we participate as citizens in these discussions, but we don't want to oblige the Church to dedicate. But we've now made a law. So the law is ready, so when the Church is ready, it's also possible for gay people to get married in the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e357	I thank the Council of State for your answer. What the Council of State says is that the Government will not put any pressure on the Church. The Church shall be allowed to govern its inner life. It can be a little frustrating for some church leaders when one on the one hand says that the Church should decide for itself, and at the same time says that one hopes that the Church will change its vision. One might be uncertain as to what the framework conditions will be for religious freedom in the future. Can one feel confident that the Government will not press the Church, that the Church itself will be allowed to control its own house, and that it will be respected without a consistent attempt to put pressure on the Church to change its vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e362	This is an important value debate, and it is important that we, as citizens and politicians, participate in it. The Church's vision has changed in many areas. The Christian People's Party itself has said that the Partnership Act would lead to a weakening of the position of marriage. It hasn't happened since 1992 - on the contrary, you see more people marrying, and divorce rates go down. So I think it's important that we have a discussion about these questions. If the Church and many in the church environments feel that this discussion is almost an intervention, it is not, but we are going to have open social discussions about this. In much of the discussion we have, it is said that we should have further investigations, that we have not been informed of all the aspects of what this can lead to. I think it's much more important that we get the counter-conceptions up today, so that we can have a discussion. I'm sure this law is going to help many people who have had big problems because of their lay, and I've seen that the Church has met with a much greater openness than what we've seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e369	President: There will be follow-up questions - first Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e372	From media surveys in recent times, we can record that there has been a deep concern among owners of Christian freshly-breds, for both the proposition’s emphasis on the concept of “discrimination” and from strong government statements, these school owners fear that the government will jeopardize the freedom of trust if the understanding of marriage as a relationship between man and woman is defined as discriminatory and as misguided. Nor does it seem that the Government has fully understood the content of the ‘parent’s right issue, because the parent’s right is about the choice of parents in the challenge and assignment of their children, i.e. far more than slightly extended Christian education and a little extra salmeson. So my question to the Council of State is, Will the freshman who teaches about marriage as a relationship between man and woman become a blacklist and lose state support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e380	The question of how the private school law is to be practised is a question primarily addressed to the Minister of Knowledge. However, I would still like to express my opinion, on a general basis, because we have laws in Norway, and we also have attitudes that the school should communicate. For a school student, it's unfortunate if you go to a school where you don't learn that homophilis is practised in Norwegian society. It's natural, and this is something you'll meet as a citizen. So I think that Norwegian schoolchildren, whether in good private, Christian schools or in public schools, should know that homophilia is natural and that they should not discriminate or look down on people with homosexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e387	Ulf Erik Knudsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e390	This change in law, this redefinition of marriage, is a major concern of the various churches and religious organizations in Norway. If you look at previous statements by labour party politicians and SV politicians in Norway, including government positions, you have been involved in bishops' recruitments, employers' policies and the content of school books, and you have threatened church communities and schools with reduced appropriations or with depriving them of the appropriations. The Council's response so far today gives us no reason to believe that the concerns are not fully real. In connection with the hearing we had on Monday, the following questions were asked: Will there be exemption arrangements for children of Christian parents in schools where the new marriage law is to be taught? And: Will there be exemption arrangements for Christian teachers who do not feel at home in the definition of marriage that the Government has laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e397	As regards the practice of private school law legislation and State aid schemes for private schools, there are questions to be addressed to the Minister of Knowledge. Now we've had a discussion in Stortinget, and we've agreed on a new arrangement in the relationship between state and church. We are constantly moving towards giving the Norwegian Church more internal autonomy. But it doesn't mean that we don't want a general and broad discussion about important value issues within the Church. I am sure that the Christian private schools we have today are busy giving children and young people a ballast to participate in the society we have. But the society to which the kids are going is quite different in terms of gays, than the society we saw 20-30 years ago. So these kids have to know that homosexuals are part of our society, and they also have to be prepared to meet children who have gay parents. It's an important part of generalisation in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e406	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e409	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. Through the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, the Government opens up record areas for petroleum activities in the northern regions. We now find that the level of conflict between oil interests on the one hand and fisheries and environmental interests on the other is becoming acute. The Council of State Party and Energy Policy Spokesman of the Workers' Party, Tore Nordtun, have called for a decision on the principle of opening up petroleum activities in the sea area outside the Lofoten and the West Sea when the adoption of a new roll-out election programme in the Workers' Party. In fact, it is one year before the investigation work through the management plan, which will be the basis for the future status of the marine area, is completed. The Minister for Fisheries is in charge of this programme work as Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party. My question is: does the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs share the scepticism of the coastal population and fishermen for petroleum activities in the sea area outside the Lofoten and the West Seas, or will she, as the North Tune trap, open up petroleum activity in this vulnerable sea area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e418	When the Government presented the management plan for the Barents Sea, the leader of the Fisker Team, Reidar Nilsen, said the day after that the fishing industry had been fully informed. I believe that the management plan we presented was a very good balance between the different interests and the different industries that use the Barents Sea. Then we're going to come back to the areas outside of Lofoten and the West Pole in 2010, when the management plan is to be revised, and when we've picked up the knowledge base we've said we're going to pick up on seabirds, seismics and bottom mapping. With regard to the programme for the Workers' Party, we will have an open and inclusive process in which all those who have opinions on this matter will be brought to their attention. But not in the programming process either have we so far concluded on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e427	I thank you for your answer. Sick if you've come a long way, you think, in the Barents Sea, Lofoten and the Western Sea are a much more vulnerable area. It has been protected in the past, and it is also an important coastal area that is involved in displaying a picture of Norway. My question to the Council of State is whether she shares the concern that is, because this area is special, and whether she believes that the fisheries organisations can be as happy and express as much joy when the plans come for this area, as she refers to the Barents area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e432	I cannot stand here and preface the outcome with regard to the Lofoten and the Vestral, but at least I can assure the representative Skei Grande that the fishing interests will be very well cared for in the processes until the decision is taken. It is totally unthinkable that the Government falls on a decision that puts the fishing industry at risk. We must take into account fishing and environmental interests outside the Lofoten and the West Sea to the same extent as has been done for the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e437	There will be follow-up questions - first André N. Skelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e440	Minister for Fisheries, Minister for Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga admits that the land conflicts between the oil industry and the environmental and fisheries interests are at stake. The Minister for Fisheries has so far not been on the road in relation to fishermen's interests. The Oil Directorate has now proposed to launch 104 new oil and gas exploration concessions. Several of the concessions are in vulnerable sea areas, in important spawning areas for fish. The proposal has been met with massive criticism from environmental and fisheries organisations. Can the Minister for Fisheries guarantee that she will take care of fishermen's interests when the Government takes a decision on the final scope of the exploration area through the 20th concession round?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e446	With regard to the Barents Sea Management Plan and its follow-up, including the shooting of seismics, the Government follows up the majority of the population determined at the time of the processing of the notification at Stortinget. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has very good cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy with regard to the allocation of new land and the conditions to be attached to the oil industry and is very pleased with that process. We have also started several working groups now dealing with how to jointly use the land, where both the underlying directorate and the industries concerned themselves have been represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e451	Ivar Kristiansen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e454	There has been broad agreement on the procedure for the management plan. It is also a misunderstanding if someone believes that the fishing industry is opposed to exploration in the Lofoten-Westerålen-South Troms areas. But the whole approach taken by the Government bears the mark of internal conflict, which creates conflicts, and which in turn creates poor communication, not least with the fishing industry. Seismics, on which the main questioner was involved, is one such example. The bad communication -- not to say no communication -- creates a deep conflict, which creates resistance. Will the Minister for Fisheries now ensure dialogue with the Norwegian fishing industry so that the procedure and implementation of the management plan are restored?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e459	I believe that regardless of how dialogue and processes are organised, the extent of the petroleum industry in Norway and where it is going to go will always differ at the end. Having said that, I would like to say that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has a very close and good cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy in clarifying the issues it has been discussing in the last few months, especially in relation to seismic shooting. There have been several working groups in progress. One has made suggestions on how to better announce compensation schemes, and has also proposed new requirements, including: to allow fishermen to be on board seismic vessels, that fishing vessels should always take precedence over field and other specific measures. They will now be followed up both in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So the fishing industry is going to be very much taken into account in the further work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e464	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e467	In Lofoten and Vesterålen we find the best spawning and growing conditions for the fish. That is why the Christian People's Party has said that in this area we must have petroleum-free zones, because this is such an important area in view of our future. We can only see in today's news picture that fish are being pulled out as an important part of the food crisis in the world. This spring there will be a lot of seismic shooting outside of Lofoten. Representatives of the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team call this shooting carpet bombing -- it's hidden from us, yes, but the fish notice it. This may also be why the annual meeting of the fisheries and aquaculture industry last week said no to petroleum activities in the vulnerable areas of the north. 100 billion dollars is the oil in this area estimated at. My question is: is the Council willing to sacrifice Norway's most valuable fishing resources and Lofoten as an important tourist destination for a short-term oil adventure at a price of DKK 100 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e474	I may feel that the questioner here invites me to conclude in advance what we intend to do with the areas outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål, but I do not intend to do so. We will have a thorough process until 2010, and it is obvious that the views of the fishing industry will be carefully assessed and listened to, just as was done when the management plan for the Barents Sea was drawn up, i.e. round 1. Of course, no matter how the conclusions are reached, we must facilitate that the fishing industry and the farming industry are industries from which we can live for generations to come, even after the petroleum resources have ended. The fishing industry does not have the exclusive right to have views on this issue, but it should be listened to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e479	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e482	Recently we had a big debate that dads have to take a greater part in the children's growth. Among other things, it was discussed how much dads should have of the maternity leave. Our new Minister for Children and Gender Equality was strongly involved in the debate. Now, it seems, the Children's Law Committee has also made a recommendation that divorce children should look more at both parents. A lot of divorce kids don't look at their father much. A proposal for a common marriage law for homosexuals and heterophiles is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy. This law allows for assisted fertilization for lesbian couples. It deprives the child of the opportunity to know his father in his upbringing. While the new law is supposed to put an end to discrimination against homosexuals, it is important not to forget the children in this process. They are the ones who are discriminated against if the state deprives them of the right to have a father. Dad's actually more than a sperm cell in a sperm bank. This must be a clear violation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states in Article 7(1) that the child ‘as far as possible’ shall have ‘the right to know and care for his or her parents’. And Article 18(1) states that ‘both parents have a common responsibility for the child’s education and development’. It is also the case that a new law will be a violation of the Council of Europe Convention for Adoption. The party of progress is often accused of breaking international conventions in immigration debates. No one has so far shown it clearly, but we are often accused of it. But here you have an obvious breach of international conventions, carried out by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e493	The President assumes that the question will be addressed to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e496	That's what I was trying to indicate, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e502	It is not natural for this to go to the Minister for Fisheries, I mean!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e505	After all, the government has carried out thorough investigations into whether this is in line with international conventions, and the child law consequences of a new marriage law have been reviewed, including the international consequences. So this has been thoroughly investigated. But what is the reality here is that many children are born with lesbian parents today, and I expect that Ulf Erik Knudsen and many of his colleagues have visited the Storing of children who have lesbian parents. Many of these children attend clinics in Denmark and other countries. If we give lesbians the opportunity to be inseminated in Norway, the child will have the opportunity to contact their biological father when he or she reaches the age of 18, and that is why getting this into the Norwegian law will strengthen the rights of these children compared to what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e510	I have the pleasure of having a three-month-old son at home. He might sit and watch this broadcast on TV with his mother--he probably doesn't understand much of it. Of course, I stress that I believe that homosexuals are certainly good caregivers, but what I think is important to take into account is that children should have the right to know their father and also grow up in contact with father, not as the council says, meet Dad only when you are 18. And it should ring a bell, or rather an alarm bell, at the Council of State when we are breaking international conventions on children's rights, at least according to very many of those who have seen these conventions. The Progress Party wants an effective child perspective, with children's rights at the centre of our laws rather than the wishes and demands of adults. My question to the Council of State is: is it not wrong to make a wish to have children a right to have children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e517	I've had the pleasure of meeting a very speaking 18-year-old. She's a student counsellor at the Nesodden high school, Sofie's name is her. And what she's saying, who's grown up with two lesbian mothers, is, stop calling your own prejudices of concern to me! She has grown up with two lesbian mothers, she can refer to research that shows that these children are not suffering from other children. So we have no knowledge that these children are hurting. On the contrary, this child is very wanted, and we have no reason to say that lesbian mothers are somewhat worse than you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e522	There will be follow-up questions - first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e525	In the hearing on the marriage law on Monday, one of the hearing bodies claimed that a sperm cell is no father. I guess we all agree on that. But many of us will probably claim that the source of the sperm is father. Does the Council support the statement that biological origin is not a father? And in that case, can the Council of State assure us that Norway is not in the process of breaking Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to Know Their Parents, especially given that it is said in the Proposition that it is entirely right for lesbians to travel to Denmark, despite knowing that in Denmark the donor is unknown?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e530	It is not prohibited for lesbian couples to travel to Denmark, but we believe that we will get this into better forms, more controlled forms, if we allow this in Norway as well. As regards the question of fatherhood, it is also the case in Norwegian law that biological father does not automatically receive the right to fathership. When adopted, other than the biological father will have the role of father. We also have rules in Norway today that solitude can adopt, and I think it is relatively demanding in principle to say that a lesbian mother is allowed to adopt, but at the moment she makes a partnership or marriage, which she will now have the opportunity, yes, she is automatically unsuitable. I think that is basically very demanding to argue for. And so there is no basis for what is the claim of the Progress Party that this is contrary to international conventions. We have had a very thorough review of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e535	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e538	We are aware that there are gay and lesbians who have children in Norway today, and that many of these children are not good enough legal certainty. It is important to ensure that all children grow up well and safely, no matter how they grow up decorate their lives. But what's eye-catching is that the government, when it makes a proposal for a new marriage law, says that it doesn't matter what framework conditions we create in the future. When we on the kindergarten front are concerned that more men are going into kindergarten, and on the school front we say that we want more male teachers into school, it's not because the children don't have contact with men at leisure, but because women and men are different, and it's important that they get different role models, considering that one can take a possibility from many children. We are concerned about the gender quota debate, but in society we are not going to have any quota in relation to facilitating the growth of children for men and women. I think it's alarming that the government doesn't see the significance of a man for the child's growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e543	We have no knowledge of the claims of lesbian mothers that the representative here expresses. Homofile has been met with many prejudices over many years, and both my and other parties in this room have changed their vision. We've gradually gone in the direction of saying that these are people like you and me, who have as good care as others. There is no reason to say that children who have grown up with two mothers or two fathers have had a worse form of care than others. These are parents who are very motivated for parents, and they do an excellent job. I am sure that Molvær Grimstad has had the opportunity to meet some of these children and has seen the care these children have. I believe that this is an area of society where we have gradually changed our mind, and the Christian People's Party has also changed its mind on some of these questions. I'm sure in a few years we'll look at this as completely natural. I am also sure that children who are growing up today will hear about a completely different view of this than that representative and I got when we went to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e548	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e552	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. For almost three years, this government has been sitting, and we have had quite a lot of controversy about child protection. We see child protection in our country in crisis. You have to do a number of things at the same time: you have to save money. You have to bring an organization into the fold. You have to take ideological action to ensure that we have a one-sided state child protection in the future. The right has repeatedly pointed out to various government councils in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality that this is the wrong course. Now we see the results. We see that the queues are increasing, is progressive. We see that more children have to wait longer for the measures they need, and we also see many examples of complaints from municipalities that the measures they receive are not well adapted and that there are too many distances between municipalities and where the children live. In short, we see a government that gives children a very low priority in its approach to child protection policy. It is striking for a small group that we must rightly be able to say is really among the weakest. We're talking about a group of maybe 1,000 to 1,500 children. So you have to pay the bill for a government that prioritises ideology in the first place. It's obvious that the government thinks it's most important to get away from the private places. Second, the economy is given priority, and then most graciously in third place, the children seem to have a place in the queue. I really have to ask the Council of State whether this is a policy for the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e563	We have a good child protection in Norway, a child protection that can still be even better. In general, we follow up on what the previous government started, with a child protection reform that put much more emphasis on actions in the local environment and transition to foster parents. What emerged from the Riksrevision report was that we have achieved the objectives to a large extent, but that when the reform was adopted in 2004 - it was a very good reform - it was under-budgeted. It had not been followed up with enough money. That is why this government has spent a lot of money on increasing the funding for child protection, to give children a much better offer than was possible with the budgetary framework provided by the previous government. We are also committed to improving quality, and therefore we have placed far more emphasis on the schooling of foster parents. We have received good feedback that the possibility that foster parents now have to increase their skills has been important. As far as the question of whether we prioritise ideology over the best of children is concerned, there is nothing in the state guidelines that warrants it. If only private institutions exist in a state or region, they shall be used. But what has been important to us is that the money we spend on child protection should not go in private pockets to the extent that we have seen cases of earlier. We want a turn towards more foster homes, towards more state and non-profit institutions, but there is no ban in today's legislation. The use of private and commercial institutions is also widely addressed. I find it interesting to hear that the representative of the Right looked to the degrees argue for commercial institutions, when in private school policy, for example. considers that it should be prohibited. I support a turn against several NPISHs and public institutions, but I want to use private institutions as a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e572	The point is that the Council of State and the Government are running a race against the private institutions, regardless of the fact that there is a good alternative. I'm standing here with the letter of disposal for the regions. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘In order to avoid, as far as possible, the purchase of private spaces, regions shall in such cases always examine the availability of vacant spaces in other neighbouring regions.’;» It's clear that it means that you'd better move a child. You might want to travel a lot of states away, far from home, rather than choose a private institution in the neighbourhood. We also know that in the case of foster homes, for which there is a great lack, you do not go into the private schemes. It's not about any cowboys getting overpaid. We've cleaned it up, and the state has every opportunity to keep it at a good distance. The state is the only buyer, and it should just be lacking if the state can't get good solutions. In a region south you interpret it briefly and well, and here it says, in a very separate section: ‘The purchase of private foster homes shall not be made.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e587	The 2005 Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, which was under the previous government, issued directives to reduce the cost growth of child protection by contributing to a gradual transition from the use of expensive institutional measures to the use of effective family and community-based measures. It's the same policy we're following now. With regard to the use of private foster homes, there are very few. It's 200 today, while we have over 7 000 in public. If there are private foster homes that are good at receiving children and young people, we will use them. There are no ideological constraints in our legislation on this. With regard to the use of private institutions in the region referred to, contracts with private foster homes have been concluded in that region. So the claims made here by the representative Thommess are not in line with the guidelines to which the agency is subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e596	There will be follow-up questions--first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e599	Government councils are aware that in the municipality of Skien, private institutions have free families, but the Barne Youth and Family Council refuse to use them. Childcare has several examples of issues where children have to wait too long because the state agency is unable to provide foster homes. This is the status. This is reality. And that's because Bufetat refuses child protection to use private measures. In my written question about this to the Council of State it became black from the Council of State that state action should come first, then one should look at the economy, and then, in the third place, as Olemic Thommessen said, one should think about the best of the child. So, according to the Council of State, the child's best is referred to third place. Does the Council really believe that this is in line with the Child Protection Act? Isn't it the child's best to come first?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e606	It is quite right, as the representative Holmberg says, that the best of the child will come first, and so I have not written it in my reply letter to Stortinget that the best of the child comes in third place. Of course, the child law applies. With regard to the use of institutions and foster homes, we have said that state action should be given priority. So we want to use, and we also use, many non-profit organizations, and then we want to give priority to commercial measures at the bottom, because we've seen that many of these have taken huge profits. But we use a lot of private institutions. Half of the institutions we use are private. So to say that we put ideology in front of the child's best here, that doesn't lead to correctness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e613	Karin S. Woldseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e616	Those of us who have been involved in child protection policy in Norway for several decades will probably remember that in the mid-1990s the municipal institutions were chosen to be built up because they wanted to invest in private services. Now, ten years later, signals were sent out - as was heard by the representative Thommess clearly and clearly - that, as far as possible and preferably, private child protection institutions should not be used. Does the Council of State think that this is a way of providing predictable frameworks for those who run private child protection institutions, and, not least, the Council of State believes - as we heard - that these are risky children? Does the Council of State think that this is a good level to put on, that rather than offering these children a private offer, you choose to let them wait in their homes where they do not get care at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e621	In recent years, we have focused on strict quality criteria for the recognition of institutions, so this is a significant improvement from the 1990s. We have also had a transition to more home-based interventions and to measures in foster homes. So it's the child's best that's been crucial in that revolution, because we've seen that many of the children who grew up in institutions have not worked out as well in society as we've wanted. But we've recently received a lot of input from people who've worked in institutions, that maybe we haven't given them enough attention. Some children will be part of their childhood and youth in institutions, and in particular this may be relevant to many young people. But we've now built some good institutions. We have laid down strict quality criteria, and we have, among other things, See that in North Norway, which had a few institutions before, they've got more institutions, so fewer need to move far. We put the best of children first, and therefore we have ensured the quality of institutions to a much greater extent than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e630	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e634	However, a review carried out by the Christian People's Party shows that an increasing number of drug treatment, child protection and rehabilitation sites run by non-profit organisations are being offered, despite the fact that neighbouring countries Sweden and Denmark make considerable use of the space provided by the EU rules for exemption from these types of services. The supply policy threatens the supply of voluntary organisations, and I hope that the Council of State listens to many of these organisations. Because do we want to miss the lack? We want children or older people to experience that their home is going bankrupt, even if they live in an institution. Therefore, the question of whether the Council of State will be involved and look at the proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party in the UK that voluntary organisations providing health and care services should be exempted from the supply requirement, for something must be done if we still want to have a shortage within this range.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e639	The Christian People's Party has, in many respects, been occupied by the non-profit organisations and the institutions they operate. That is why we are also giving priority to these in front of the commercial private institutions. But I think it's necessary, as the representative here emphasizes, to go up the line between non-profit and commercial institutions and organizations, because we know that many of the collectives, for example. has an ideal purpose and cannot be described as having commercial interests. Many family-run institutions that are smaller also have an ideal character. So the answer to the representative's question is yes, we want to look at this legislation, and we should also look at the cross-border rise between non-profit organisations and commercial actors, whether that limit is set in the right place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e644	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e647	The Council of State will obviously go in and look at large parts of this, and then I want to ask about another aspect of the same and whether the Council of State also wants to look at it, because we now see a great twist from institutional places to foster homes, which are certainly in many cases wise arrangements, but which may not be a fanatical choice, because institutions can also work well for many children. We've seen that we're starting to make a lot of demands on the institutions, but we have very poor supervision of foster homes. We see that we have been very good at learning from all the errors that have occurred in the institutions, while foster homes are almost asking their knees to have supervisory arrangements. It's just those foster homes that are very active, that actually get it. Will the Council of State do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e654	In the case of home supervisors, these figures have not been good enough. We have taken action to ensure that we now have more supervisors than before, but the last numbers I have been given an overview of show that 10 pst. by foster homes today do not have a supervisor. Of course, we must look at this very seriously, and we must put in place a system of supervisors for those who are entitled to do so. But what is also important, and which we focus on in child protection, is that the talks between the supervisor and the child should be good. That is why we have issued a guide to give each supervisor the opportunity for a good dialogue with the individual child. So, in addition to putting in place more supervisors, we focus on strengthening the competence of the individual supervisor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e661	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e666	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold and Elisabeth Aspaker, respectively, to the Minister for Defence, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Martin Engeset to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e680	My question to the Minister of Finance is as follows: ‘Credit supervision concentrates, according to the media, its studies and follow-up to the small players in the financial market. This suggests that operators in the market are treated differently according to their size, with the consequences for the competitive situation. Is there a situation the Council of State wants or will further consider?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e694	Under the Credit Supervision Act, credit supervision shall be exercised over those institutions that are subject to supervision. The Ministry of Finance is the overall authority of the credit supervision and provides overall leadership for the credit supervision priorities in the governance dialogue. The Ministry emphasises that, within these overall frameworks, the credit supervision has a separate responsibility for prioritising its supervisory resources. The supervisory work of the CRA has been explained in the budgets and in the annual communications to the Stortinget, at the latest in the 2007 CRA, which was submitted last Friday, with the annual report of the CRA being accompanied as an out-of-date annex. In the field of finance, a significant part of the supervisory work is directed towards the largest financial institutions, where any economic problems may have the greatest impact on financial stability, and there are examples of large players receiving critical comments from the credit supervision. In the securities field, new securities trading laws entered into force on 1 November last year, such as: means that investment advisors must have a concession as investment firms. The law also contains a number of concrete investor protection rules that advisers have to deal with. More than 60 new entities have been granted a concession as investment firms and the supervision of those actors is a priority in the Credit Supervision business plan for 2008. The credit supervision has informed that, in the context of the treatment of the concession applications, it includes, inter alia: has been revealed to have poor product knowledge of a number of managers and employees of the new undertakings, as well as lack of the experience and understanding of standards which one finds in the more established actors. There have been examples of sales of complex products directly to ordinary savings customers, partly with disproportionately high commissions and with a large element of debt financing. Accordingly, the credit supervision announced a withdrawal of the concession in one case and that entity chose to surrender its concession as an investment firm. That entity was the size of two or three in that part of the savings market. We have also been informed that the credit supervision has collected material from those investment firms that provide investment advice to the most significant extent to ordinary savings customers. Preliminary studies have revealed aspects to which the credit supervision needs to consider. The credit supervision will also monitor the activities of the major banks in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e709	I perceive the Council of State's response there to the fact that the top leaders are placed by the Ministry of Finance. It's my opinion that going on, for example. only small and newly established companies would be a parent company. Now I hear the Council of State say that one will also examine the larger banks. For what is behind this is, as the Council of State points out, the consideration of savers, investors, etc. - the usual man in the street. It's perfectly obvious that it's the big banks that have the volume and the amount of customers. I find it striking, therefore, that the newspapers also market this as a strong offensive against some segments of the operators. And I wish that the Council of State would be a little stronger and say that she also thinks that the large ones are included as much as the small ones in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e716	What I can say very clearly is that the premise for the question that the fleet has asked is not correct, and it is clear from my answer. It's not like you pick out the little ones and focus on them. It is, as explained in the answer, so that in the financial field, of course, the big players who are being closely followed are the ones that the credit supervision has reported. But because we have made changes to the Securities Trading Act, so that there are now many more people who are going to have a concession after that, and because we see that there are many people who don't understand what kind of commitments they now have, there has to be an extra effort towards them in the securities trade field. But it has to be control of both large and small. It is not the size that is the criterion for selection for control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e721	The fact that the Council of State can really guarantee that what is produced in the media is that we are looking at the small and the new players more, is not really right. You want to spend at least the same amount of resources on others too, so -- and that's one of the points of this -- all of the clients and investors, wherever they go, can feel sure that the credit supervision is doing the job they're going to do, and not being led by a public discussion and debate about these savings products, but keeping their heads cold in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e726	I must say I am surprised that the representative fleet is taking a stand on how the credit supervision prioritises, as far as he does on this follow-up issue. It's not the size that matters. But for the new ones, who have not had legislation and follow-up from the Credit Authority in the past, it is of course that there is a need to clarify what the legislation is, and how things should be followed up, to make sure that you keep a high standard. Therefore, of course, I cannot say how the resources of the credit supervision are distributed between large and small institutions. What I can say is that you have to go to those institutions where you fear that the standard doesn't hold up, and then you have to follow up on it. Then it's no wonder that you have to focus more on new than on established institutions that you know from before, and that you're already aware of what kind of legislation you're going to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e734	‘In December 2007, the Government decided to drop the storage of CO2 from the test cleaning plant in Mongstad because it was too expensive. In retrospect, proposals for a much lower cost solution have been made. The proposal concerns the use of existing pipelines from the Trollfield for the transport and storage of CO2 in the Johansen formation. What is the Council of State’s assessment of such a solution to get the ‘monthly landing project’ back on track and start transporting and storing from the test facility as of 2011?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e747	The government has set ambitious targets for CO2 management. Norwegian efforts in the field of CO2 capture and storage are one of several contributions to addressing climate challenges. The agreement on CO2 management in Mongstad is an important element in the development of forward-looking technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. I just came from a meeting in Rome, where there has been a dialogue between energy producers and consumers. I believe that from the Norwegian side, we should be pleased with the international developments in relation to the fact that the acceptance of CCS, CO2 management, is essential to help solve the climate challenges. Under the implementation agreement for CO2 management in Mongstad from October 2006, the State is responsible for the establishment of a transport and disposal solution for CO2 from the test centre. Several alternative solutions have been considered, including: temporary transport of CO2 to Snow White or Sleipner by ship, delayed time for full scale pipeline transport and postponement of transport solution from the test centre to infrastructure related to full scale facilities on Mongstad and Kårstø are in place. Based on this work, it became known before Christmas last year that the total cost of a temporary transport and storage solution would be NOK 3 billion. In this context, the government decided to close the investigation related to a temporary ship transport solution from the test centre. Gassnova and Gassco are now in the process of working out a permanent transport and storage solution for CO2 from the full-scale plants on Mongstad and Kårstø and to assess different solutions for connecting CO2 from the test centre to the permanent CO2 transport system. This work also includes assessments related to the use of existing infrastructure for CO2 transport from Mongstad, e.g. possible use of the oil pipelines from the Trollfield. Finally, I would like to point out that an important ambition in the Government's commitment to the capture and storage of CO2 is to contribute to the commercialisation of this technology, so that CO2 management can be widely applied. It is this ‘monthly landing’. We need to bring down the cost of CO2 management so low that it also becomes natural for countries like China and India to use it. Work is under way both with the test facility at Mongstad and with the full-scale facilities at Kårstø and Mongstad. In addition to contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions, projects will contribute important knowledge and experience in disseminating the use of CO2 management technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e811	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Yes, it is important to facilitate technology development in the handling and storage of CO2 - it is the Christian People's Party that agrees with the Government - and therefore it would really be very good to be able to use this Troll tube on the test facility as well. What we could have done now is, first of all, that we could have gained experience in storing in the Johansen formation. We need for the second more research in relation to CO2 and correlation, and this pipe is already there, so it would give us minimal costs compared to building a whole new pipe. The challenge is: why does the Government not choose to use this on the test facility, and not only in relation to the assessment of full-scale sewage treatment plants, for which the Council of State has just addressed it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e826	These are very large, technically demanding and costly projects. In the case of Johansen formation, it is for storage. However, a significant effort must be made to ensure that this is a maximum of a good option. Just to underline the dimensions of this: a lot of the international debate is about whether it is safe to store. We have experiences from Sleipner, where we believe that we can say with our hands on the heart that it is safe. Now we're going to get experience from Snow White. This is going to be important in international work. We have to be absolutely sure that we also handle the storage bit in such a way that there can never be any doubt about safety. That's why this is demanding, and we need to know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e833	I thank you for your answer. Yes, technology development is demanding, but there is also the safety aspect. By using the pipeline that already exists, we have the opportunity to just show the world that this is certain, that through concrete action we will see that we have control of this, and that this should be a future solution that we in the world community will work against. The press release sent out on 29 February states: ‘The objective of TCM’, test centre for CO2 capture, ‘is to test and demonstrate CO2 capture technologies, thereby reducing the costs and risks of large-scale capture of CO2’.» My challenge is, can't we, to show the world that this is safe technology, take one step that we're using the existing Troll line?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e850	As I explained in my main response, Gassco and Gassnova also assess the possibility of using existing infrastructure to transport CO2 from Mongstad, for example. the oil pipelines from the Troll field. So this is under work. This is studied together with other ways to do it. What is crucial to me is that we are able to deal with this in such a way that we not only ensure the necessary technological development and security, but also do so in an economically sound way, so that we are not accused of spending money that could have been spent more wisely, for temporary solutions that have limited effect. I'm now busy putting in place a full-scale solution that's maximum good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e865	‘The authorities introduced a separate price range for power in Central Norway on 20 November 2006. Then the then Minister of Energy, Enoxen, and other red-green politicians, promised that this would only give marginal price estimates, limited to some ears. This promise appears to be inconclusive when TV 2 again reports large price differences on 16 April. There are still many years until some solutions are in place in the region. Does the Council of State think that price differences are marginal, and what will the Government do to limit the extra cost of Central Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e872	The prices of power in central Norway and in northern Norway have been broadly coincident since the beginning of the new year. Sometimes prices have been slightly higher in central Norway than in northern Norway, but these are not significant differences. The greatest difference between Mid Norway and North Norway occurred in week 9, as the difference between the prices in the range was 3.6 øre/kWh on a weekly average. This must be said to be a relatively small price difference. However, the price in South Norway has often been lower than in the northern part of the country. This is related to limited transmission capacity between South Norway and the rest of the Nordic power market. In addition, the resource situation has been very good, with a high level of magazine filling and a high level of snow in the mountains. Thus, the supply of power has been high in relation to consumption. This has pushed the price down in South Norway, so that it has been temporarily significantly lower than in the rest of the market, including both Middle Norway and North Norway. A contributing cause of the limited capacity of South Norway has been technical problems with transmission connections. Statnet expects the price difference between South Norway and other price ranges to decrease when the exchange capacity of the rest of the market is back to normal. The situation is expected to change significantly in the summer. Furthermore, grid reinforcements from central Norway to south Norway will be decisive for price differences between the national parts. The plans for the Ørskog-Fardal power line will be very important in this context. The establishment of central Norway as a separate price range was one of several measures to improve power availability and security of supply in the area. The length of maintenance of the price range in Central Norway is an assessment Statnett has to do, based on the concrete physical conditions. Since central Norway is a structural deficit area, it is important that there is a signal of continued saving of water in the region. This is signalled through the price range, and it is important that actors are included in their planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e883	Part of my question went on what the government will do to limit the extra cost for Middle Norway. I felt that the Council of State did not touch at all. The management of Stryn Energi estimates that their customers in Central Norway will receive an extra charge of NOK 2 250 in 2008, as a result of higher power prices compared to South Norway. On average, the electricity price in 2007 was 3 ø/kWh. There is not much to be heard, but in relation to the Government's promises before the price range was introduced, this is a huge curse on the part of the Government. Arild Stokkan-Grande from the Workers' Party believed that a price level of 0,1 øre/kWh was sufficient to achieve power. Ola Borten Moe from the Senterpartiet believed that 1 ear/kWh was sufficient. So now we see that the average in 2007 was 3 centimeters/kWh - probably the triple in 2008. Does the Government feel that the government has fulfilled its promise that the electricity would not cost much more in central Norway, despite its own price range?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e892	Nothing would please me more than to come to the day when we can cancel a separate price range in Middle Norway. We are systematically working on getting into a situation where it is possible. Then I would like to stress that what is especially about the power prices in Norway these days is that we have a very low price in South Norway. It's actually South Norway that is the exception. The reason why we have a particularly low price in this part of the country is, simply told, that there is a lot of snow, a lot of resources, and that we have trouble with several of the wires out of South Norway. We are talking about the NordNed cable, which we now expect to make available to the market the second week in May. We're talking about problems related to the power connection over the Oslofjorden. We have also had challenges, and have challenges, related to the Skagerrak 3 cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e899	I note that the Council of State indirectly confirms that her own party traps, both red and green, have not understood how the power market works. They promised that a separate price range would give a maximum price increase of 1 centimeter/kWh, because that was all that was needed to stimulate the flow to go into Middle Norway instead of to South Norway or out of the country. I also reported that Ola Borten Moe said to the Address Paper on 23 May 2006 that ‘the inhabitants of Central Norway should not be penalised for poor planning at a central level’. There's something the Council of State doesn't want to go into at all. Because when the management of Stryn Energie - this also applies to many other energy companies - estimates that Mid-Norway will get an extra charge of more than NOK 2000 per year. household as a result of government policy, it is quite remarkable that the Council of State does not even come up with what she will do to fulfill her own promises that you will not have to pay extra for poor central planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e906	I cannot accept the figures that the Solvik-Olsen representative now refers to. My starting point is that we're going to have a situation where we can cancel the price range in Middle Norway. The government took over a demanding power situation in central Norway. We are now systematically working on it, both in terms of increased transmission capacity and in terms of increased production. The government has not stated a goal that this should be a separate price range, and is systematically working to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e915	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The total hydropower potential in Norway is estimated to be 205,3 TWh by NVE. Of these, 119.7 are built-in TWh and 44.2 TWh are protected against hydropower expansion. The remaining reserve of hydropower is calculated for around 39 TWh, which is a significant power potential. At a time when the focus on environmentally friendly power generation is high, Norway has a responsibility to assess its unused power reserve for environmentally friendly hydropower generation. How does the Government view the potential to expand the remaining hydropower potential in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e924	Norway is a country rich in renewable energy resources. The hydropower is here as a base arrow. We are in the privileged situation that almost all of our electricity production is based on hydropower. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that existing hydropower structures need to be exploited better, and the use of small, mini and micro-power plants needs to be increased without conflicting with nature protection interests. We shall ensure continued use of hydropower resources, while taking into account other important interests in the watercourses. Estimates of the hydropower potential should be used with caution. Such estimates do not take into account the environment, property and network capacity, which limit the real development potential. What builders choose to apply for and what concession can be granted can reduce the potential several times. I am fully aware that we have the opportunity to expand a significant share of smaller power plants below 10 MW. The government supports such expansions that contribute to industrial development and housing in the districts. Any use of energy sources has negative effects. Also smaller hydropower plants may have negative environmental impacts, depending on the design of the projects. That is why we have a thorough concession treatment, where most projects make adjustments and require remedial action. In 2007, we gave permission to expand about 1 TWh with hydropower. With increased focus on climate change and the need for renewable energy, I am convinced that further development of hydropower projects will be central in the coming years. Exploitation of opportunities in already developed watercourses will form the basis for this development. With increasingly unregulated production in Norway and on the continent, the focus will be on the special qualities of hydroelectricity with control magazines. Regulatory capacity means that hydropower is not only renewable but also flexible. Upgrading and gentle expansion of our hydropower plants will help to make better use of existing water storage plants without new major environmental impacts. Such measures will be an important contribution in the future to the Government’s commitment to renewable energy production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e937	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that I am a little surprised at the passive attitude of this government to expand more of our unused hydropower resources. We can do that in a very environmentally friendly and natural way. With it, as I see it, very passive power policy that this government stands for, gets the closest impression -- we know that we have a deficit of power in Norway in a normal year -- that the future power demand, with a deficit of 8 TWh, is to be met by imports of coal power, nuclear power or other things. Then it might be interesting to ask the Council of State: is it a goal for this government that the country should be self-sufficient in electricity even in a so-called normal year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e946	The production of hydropower is high in Norway. We're going to enjoy that. I believe that we still have the potential to develop our hydropower. I think we're going to have ambitions that go far beyond being marine powered by electricity from renewable energy sources. It will not only mean hydropower, but it will also have to include renewable power from wind turbines, like sea wind turbines. So the answer to the question is that I believe that the Progress Party has too low ambitions regarding the production of renewable energy from Norway. We should set ourselves the goal of having as a vision that we will become a great exporter of clean and renewable energy to the continent. It must be based on a combination of offshore wind power and our blessed hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e955	I am pleased to hear about the level of ambition that the Council of State offers in the case of future Norwegian power generation. But it is a reality that, already today, in a normal year, we have a power loss in relation to the consumption of approx. 8 TWh. It equals 10-12 Alta power plants, so there's a significant deficit we're talking about. It is only this year with an extraordinary amount of rainfall that we have enough production in the Norwegian hydropower system to be self-sufficient in electrical energy in Norway. We know that the forecasts indicate that by 2020 we will have a consumption of approx. 140 TWh. Last year the consumption was 227 TWh. So that means we have to increase the power output by 0.7 pst. 1 TWh, per years ahead towards 2020. It's a significant challenge. Then my question is: is there hydropower -- the council was to the extent involved -- is there wind power, is there gas power, is there imports of coal and nuclear power, or is there a mix of all of these that the government wants most to invest in? Do you have any favorite areas you want to bet on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e964	Firstly, I fully agree that we should get out of a situation where we have a deficit in power generation in a normal year. That is the representative and I fully agree. This will, of course, be a first step towards becoming an exporter of clean and renewable energy. We'll go along different tracks to reach this. We want to work with hydropower. It involves investing in small-scale power. It involves the wise upgrading of existing production, which may be larger. It involves bet on wind. It involves, not least, energy conversion, so that we use more biomass for heating, and we also focus on energy saving for years to come. So there's a combination of different measures that will enable us to get out of a situation where we have deficits in a normal year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1001	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1007	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende presented the Action Plan A simpler Norway 2005-2009 with the aim of reducing the administrative costs for industry in compliance by 25 pst. by 2010. The government has now received analyses of the administrative costs for the business sector broken down by department. These are in total 2,6 pst. of GDP, or approximately 17 billion kr. What is the Government's ambition for cost reductions for industry, and how is progress in work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1016	The government decided in spring 2006 to launch a project to identify the costs to businesses of complying with information requirements in all laws, regulations and administrative provisions that are directed towards business. The monitoring has now been completed, and the Government will promote an action plan of simplification measures, the aim of which is to achieve significant relief in the administrative costs of enterprises. The work on finding and designing simplification proposals is carried out in close cooperation with business organisations and other departments. There have also been about a thousand interviews with companies to get suggestions on how to make things easier. In contrast to the previous government, this government has wanted to get a more detailed picture of the real potential for simplification before possibly promoting a proposal for a concrete measure. The results of the monitoring show the costs related to legislation, while the socio-economic benefits of the legislation have not been assessed. We need to clarify the utility page before we have the necessary basis to decide whether it is appropriate to make simplifications. There are many factors that affect the simplification potential. An important example is that enterprises also use the information for their own purposes. Another factor is that a lot of legislation follows from international agreements that we are obliged to comply with. The measurements carried out also include the costs related to that type of legislation. In other words, the survey provides a good overview of the cost to business but does not provide the same overview of the actual potential for simplification. We are now actively identifying current simplification proposals. These will be presented by the Government in an action plan that we plan to present before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1033	I would like to thank you for your answer. In my opinion, it has been very quiet from this government in the area of simplification. The measures referred to by the Council of State are largely implemented by former governments. This concerns both the ALTINN solution, the Oracle system and the mapping project that the Government has now completed. In a debate in the Evening Post on 18 March, the Council of State shows that Norwegian industry spends 137 years less on completing state forms in 2007 than in 2006. Set against the total number of annual work in Norwegian business and against the cost of reporting and documentation, estimated at 2.6 pst. of gross domestic product, 137 annual works are hardly a noticeable change. The government writes in a press release on 28 January that expenditure is to be ‘substantially reduced’. Could the Council of State be a little more specific about what he thinks is significant in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1046	As I said in my first answer, it's so that we reach, among other things. have conducted interviews with a thousand companies. I've had the pleasure of attending one of those interviews myself, to see how they went on. That means that the government places great emphasis on the simplification work. It was very interesting to see how that company partially reported on things that they would in any case do for the company itself in terms of information that they need, partly reports on things that concern common legislation across Europe - that's 20 pst. of the legislation in Norway - and in part on things that they perceived as a burden of which they did not fully value. It's at such a thorough review that we get the right starting point to get to a real simplification. I could of course say 27 pst., because then I would have been more ambitious than my predecessor, Børge Burnde, but it's not enough to think about numbers. It is not enough to count forms either. It is the real administrative burden that is important, and it has thus become easier under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1055	I think it is alarming that the Council of State writes a ‘significant’ reduction in the press release, when he is not at all able to specify what is in it. I have just received a copy of a fresh letter from the Department of Economic Affairs, dated today. In the end, it is quite striking that the Ministry has signalled so far that simplification is only about making changes in administrative procedures, i.e. without altering the material content of provisions which impose costs on business. The letter states that, following the NHO’s assessment, this will not lead to the simplifications that are desirable or necessary. The NHO further writes that to achieve ‘significant’ simplification effects — ‘significant’ as promised by the Council of State in its press release — changes in the content of material legislation will not have to be avoided. Is it true that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has indicated that this is only about administrative procedures? Does not the Council of State not see the need to make material changes to the rules in order to achieve the significant simplification promised by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1062	It's a bit striking that the question came the same day as the letter from the NHO. The urgency of asking the question -- to put it that way -- because we have now submitted a thorough review of all aspects of the forms, with other reporting procedures, which companies in Norway have to follow. We're doing that job very thoroughly, and then it's based on the analyses we might want to set measures on how much we want to reduce. Clearly, for some countries in Europe, administrative burdens are much higher than in Norway, and then it is easier to set an ambitious percentage, just as if you are very obese, it is easier to reduce some percentage than if you are not obese. Therefore, it is important to have a proper analysis of the basis to which we are going to make the simplifications. This is done closely with the NHO and with other organisations in Norway. Let me conclude by saying that this is a theme that most governments agree on. There is at least no reason for the Right to make party politics out of this, because the most prominent on the bourgeois side of that, which I want to praise at the end, is my predecessor Lars Sponheim, who among other things. put a strong focus on the importance of simplification, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1071	The president let that rose go a little overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1077	The question is: ‘The government seems to be without new financial instruments to increase the allocation framework for all necessary investments in the transport sector. The government itself has rejected project funding as an instrument to ensure the continuous development of large projects. Will the Council of State provide for the use of advances in State resources as a means of increasing the rate of investment and ensuring project promotion in the field of transport?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1086	For many years, there has been an arrangement for the advance of state resources for road projects. In this context, I refer to the annual budget proposals, which include a power of initiative for the advance of funds to road-goals in addition to the appropriations granted. The 2008 debt authorisation is formulated in such a way that the cumulative current reimbursement obligations do not exceed 1 800 million. kr. Advances shall be refunded without compensation for interest and price rise. The advance arrangements have also been practised in the financing of railway construction. So far, this has been practised by the fact that concrete proposals for the advance of individual projects or measures have been submitted to the Stortinget. On the railway side, there is no system of a general advance authorisation within an upper limit of amounts, such as on the road side. The reason for this is that so far there have been far fewer people who have been interested in speeding up, thus tying up funds, for the development of railway projects. If it is appropriate to introduce the same general regime within the railway system as on the road, interest in advance must be much greater from municipalities and other stakeholders. If such interest were to exist, the Government would consider the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1095	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that, to some extent, advances are being used today. I am concerned about increasing its scope, precisely to ensure predictability and to clarify funding. When the Council of State in the answer refers to the railway as an example where you may not have used it to a particular extent, it is precisely my example to point out that in the case of example: The double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg - to which the government budget for 2009, long before that budget comes, has now been happily announced - could in fact have made progress in the 2008 government budget, showing that it would advance. Then you could have saved almost a year. My point is to demand more extensive use of forwarding to speed up the construction of both road projects and railway projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1104	I'm a little uncertain about what is the purpose of such an advance, because then it would be the state's means as one in a way called advance, and which would be unreservedly the means of budgeting that we put in. At least it will be like me, without going closer to matter, will have to call beyond Caesar's new garments, because it will be without consideration the government funds that we put in--for example. They we submitted for 2008 - we could call it advance, but it's just as full of means of budgeting. I am a little uncertain about the purpose of this type of advance. Then it must be better to do what the Government does, to increase the annual budgets and to call a spade for a spade.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1111	There's neither emperor nor new clothes here. Here is the question of giving signals that perhaps a year can begin before the formal budgetary decision and the formal budgetary allocation are taken. Of course, the state can do this, because it has money. Let me also finally take a different variant of advances, which we actually know from practice in the school sector. For many years, we have granted DKK 15 billion for the upgrading of school buildings. There we have a separate item on the government budget to cover the interest expenses for a period of time. We must also be able to use this in relation to advancement. Many local initiatives to support the construction of important transport projects may well be able to make progress on their own keel, even without tolls, but they may then depend on a certain contribution from the state, much in parallel with what we have done for school buildings, where the state must also provide budgetary resources to cover the advance costs of debt financing in order to build local projects more rapidly. Is there something you want to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1118	There's a lot of creative turns you can do, and you can call it by a lot of names, but it's all about the seventh and the last thing about which framework you're willing to add to each year's budget. I am a member of the scheme that one has, with interest subsidies for school buildings. This has led to a lot of good expansion and maintenance of school buildings, which were absolutely necessary. Of course, it is also possible to assess such schemes in the transport sector, for example: to state roads. But when it comes to the annual budgets, I can't help but say, when I hear Sortevik's description of this, but to conclude that we're here to the seventh and last talking about budgetary means. If we had accelerated Barkåker-Tønsberg in 2008, we would have started in 2008, and we might as well have put in the budget in 2008. A crown is a crown, either it's called advance or it's a means of budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1128	‘In its proposal for NTP, Akershus is committed to EUR 830 million. NOK, corresponding to a reduction of 1060 million. kr in relation to the current NTP. If this is going to cover a new Fornebu track, it's going to add up to 103 million. kr to other national roads distributed over a 10-year period. In the country’s most populous territory, this is environmentally weak and does not contribute to the upgrading of the road network in the county. Will the State Council provide earmarked funds for the new Fornebu runway and ensure the allocation of public highway funds in line with the current NTP?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1135	Akershus County Council decided at its meeting on 10 May 2007 that Fornebubanen should be established as an urban railway. There was a strong willingness from all actors to quickly find a solution to the urban question. The work on planning a regional urban railway solution has been started and will be carried out in cooperation between Akershu County Municipality, Statens vägvesen, the Railway Agency, Oslo Municipality and Bærum Municipality. The question refers to the proposed framework for investment on the rest of the Akershus national road network in the transport networks for the period 2010-2019. I must remind you here that these are the transport modes' proposals for priorities within an assigned planning framework, a so-called technical calculation framework. The government will decide on the future financial framework and its distribution through work on the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. There is considerable work and extensive processes that remain before the national transport plan 2010-2019 can be submitted. I propose to submit the message in December 2008. The concrete priorities under the national investment frameworks have a decisive impact on the county today. Following the planned management reform that will enter into force from 2010, priority will be given to actions in this area as an important regional policy task. The fornebuban is part of the local proposal for priorities within Oslopackak 3. An overall assessment of the priorities within Oslopackak 3 will be carried out in the context of Step 2, which will be submitted at the same time as the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. The evaluations will be carried out in close dialogue with local authorities and in the light of the ongoing KS1 work and priorities in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1146	I thank you for that not quite surprising answer. The proposal of the etats is dramatic for the inhabitants of Akershus in several ways. It was also underlined in the prison last week. There's little new investment. The national roads have been reduced by 54 pst. The Fornebuban is not funded. Double tracks Oslo-Ski are not included, and Oslopackak 3 is underfunded. In the past, during the oral question procedure, I understood the Council of State there that she, like me, believes that it is obvious that the framework needs to be expanded considerably to solve the problems you see in several counties, not least in Akershus, on the tribal network, the national road network and the railway network. Is the Council aware that it is possible at all to build a Fornebu track without extra earmarked funds in view of the localisation decisions and regulatory measures taken in relation to the Fornebu development? And with regard to the way in which maintenance budgets have been aged, does the Council not think it would have been time to consider supporting the Right's proposal for a separate maintenance programme rather than balancing the maintenance budgets with investment funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1155	The question of Fornebubanen has a long history. It is suggested that a find means to the path within the state of its state of distributed means, just as one does in Bergen with the Bergensbanen. A state contribution to the Fornebuban is provided by the etats within the so-called ‘divided investment frame’. That's a promise of 600 million. kr, which is of course fixed, cf. what was also presented to the Storting in the 2008 budget proposal. As I said, as of today, the funds allocated to Fornebubanen - the kind of earmarking of funds for a single project - are an account that this government has not wanted. We want more control to the county councils, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1162	The question of transportation is quickly raised about greeting home in this room. Greetinging home to Oslo and Akershus is a little bit more than greeting home, because that means that people get the opportunity to come home, by the fact that Akershus/Oslo, the capital region, is naved in the transportation network. We believe that a well-developed urban road network in the metropolitan region is a prerequisite for the good functioning of the rest of the country as well. I record that the Council of State naturally will not comment on individual amounts. But the government council believes it's possible to get a real expansion of the highway network in Akershus by 103 million. kr distributed over 10 years - i.e. approx. Ten million. kr a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1169	It's quite easy to answer that question: it's too little to imagine that you're going to have a further expansion of the national road network. There are many issues that need to be discussed in the further work on the national transport plan. One is the distribution between operations and maintenance versus investment. The second is the ratio to what is to be financed by the government and what is to have other sources of funding. The relationship between the large investment projects and the smaller investment measures taken by the agencies is an important question, and also whether we can see the different items, i.e. the means of investment and the means of maintenance, in order to get more out of each krona. When it comes to the issue of a maintenance fund, I again record that there is a great deal of creativity to finance transport, and I usually remind you that at the end of the year it is about the willingness to prioritize transport within each year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1179	‘Children with autism often need special diets to reduce the effectiveness of medical problems. Reimbursement of the cost of dieting children with autism is not granted through popular security, whereas such reimbursement is granted in connection with other sufferings. Nor is it possible to deduct the cost of the tax equation. It would be logical that dietary costs related to disease should be treated equally independently of diagnosis. Will the Council consider imposing a reimbursement for specific costs of autist diet?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1186	Basic social security benefits may be provided to persons who, because of their permanent illness, injury or lye, have the necessary additional costs as a result of the dieting of animals. It follows from the People's Security Act that the need for a specialty for the diagnosis in question must be scientifically documented and widely recognised in medical practice. The State of Employment and Welfare makes ongoing assessments of what can be defined as scientifically validated diets. In cases of doubt, they shall obtain opinions and documentation from, inter alia: health authorities and specialists. In 2006, on the basis of several questions about autism and diet, I asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare for the assessment of the relationship. The Directorate concluded in its reply letter of 15 January 2007 that persons with autism diagnosis alone do not fulfil the condition for basic support for diet. The conclusion was inter alia: based on a meeting they had held with the superior Bentsen from Ullevål University Hospital. He then clarified that current research results have not been able to demonstrate any clear link between mental symptoms of autism and the composition of the diet. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare is not aware that after this meeting new research has taken place which suggests otherwise. I will continue to make sure that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare regularly carries out the necessary assessments of the status of research in this area, in line with that resulting from the Law on Social Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1197	I thank you for your answer. I'm familiar with the strict rules that apply to get reimbursement for this type of expenses. Among other things, this legislation was tightened up in 2004, making it even more difficult for this particular patient group to obtain reimbursement or tax deduction. It is also the case that the Health Directorate has developed and recommended a guide in particular diets for autists. There are some Norwegian children, as well as Norwegian professionals, who are working on projects that are now clearly beginning to show that autists have a very good effect on special diets, which are expensive. It would be fine if also these children -- who don't have this diet because of food allergy, but for quite other reasons -- get reimbursement in line with others. I would like once again to ask that non-discrimination be assessed, including within the different NAV offices in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1208	I guess I don't really have much more to add, but to make it clear that of course I don't have any political objection that you give basic support to people with autism who will then have to improve their situation as a result of diet. But what I must stress is that a political decision on this must be based on a professional assessment of a recognised professional environment, where it is said that such a diet, scientifically documented, could have an impact on autists. As long as I don't have it, as long as it's just about some experience and about something someone has experienced, and as long as there's no research or documentation, I can't use the means of popular fear to provide that kind of support. But we have to keep up. We know that there's always research going on, and as soon as it's possible to say that there's new results in such a context, I don't want anything politically against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1215	I thank you for that answer, but I hope that something will go a little faster than that you have to base heavy scientific research projects on. Already today, Norwegian doctors, employed in the Norwegian health service, recommend this to children. In fact, it should be enough that Norwegian doctors in the Norwegian health service recommend a type of diet and think it should be tried. And if that gives you an effect, you're going to have the opportunity to keep doing this. It should also be difficult for the Directorate-General for Health to issue a guide. Sometimes it takes a very long time to get completely concrete research results that cover everyone, but today, in fact, NAV offices treat this very differently. Some parents get $1,730 in reimbursement each month, while others don't get anything. Often it is that once you have received a no, it is difficult to go further. So I hope you take a closer look at it, so that we get equal treatment from these patients as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1222	I agree that it should be non-discrimination. If there are people who get e.g. basic support from the public interest because the diet should help in relation to the psychological state associated with autism, it is wrong. They shouldn't have. In that case, equal treatment means that they should have lost the benefit they receive. Food allergy is overrepresented by autists, so there may be many autists who get basic support for a special diet. But it is related to the food allergy, not to the psychological effects of the diet in relation to autism. I must say, with all possible respect for the Norwegian medical profession, that it cannot be that because if a doctor recommends some treatment, it should in itself be good enough to get basic support from the public interest. I think we'd have gotten a lot of people's fear in time, if that were the angle of incidence. We must probably have a slightly tighter set of criteria in order to approve basic support from the public interest. But as I said, if it's possible to recover, it won't be politically in the way of doing so. But we're going to spend money on what we feel safe on because we have enough money to spend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1232	‘If there are compelling health conditions that make it necessary for foreigners to stay in the kingdom, this may, according to the new Foreign Affairs Act, be emphasised in order to provide for residence due to strong human considerations. A 5-year-old from Iran with severe tuberculosis has been expelled. Lack of treatment will lead to the death of this 5-year-old. How can the Council of State, in matters like this, ensure that people who can be expelled really get the vital treatment they need if they are sent back to their home country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1239	Very many asylum seekers cite health as part of the basis for their application. In view of the fact that most countries from which asylum seekers come have significantly lower health services than Norway, it is necessary to introduce restrictive practices in matters where health conditions are the only or most central basis for an application for a residence permit. In the proposal for a new law on foreigners, the Ministry has shown that a concrete overall assessment must also be carried out on health issues. This also applies in cases where there are children who are ill, but the Ministry has pointed out that there should be a slightly lower threshold for granting a residence permit to children than to adults. The foreign student’s guidelines, which can be found on the foreign student’s websites, include: that a physical health condition as a starting point must be ‘acute and life-threatening’ in order to provide the sole basis for residence in Norway. At the same time, it is noted that it may also be appropriate to grant authorisation where there is a serious chronic disorder which, by its nature, is, or may become, life-threatening, if it is not treated. The guidelines also underline what is mentioned above that the threshold is somewhat lower in order to provide residence for children than for adults. However, an essential condition for granting a residence permit is that there is no adequate and available treatment provision in the home country. In this context, I would like to stress that I am confident that UDI and UNE have a good factual basis for the assessments carried out on the possibilities for treatment in the home country. In cases where it is necessary for a safe assessment, specific requests are made through the Landinfo source network.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1252	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the threshold has been lowered when it comes to giving residence to children. We are very pleased that one in the new Foreign Affairs Act has put into practice what one means by ‘strong human concerns’, and that this with serious health challenges is emphasised. The fact that the foreign agencies know a little more about what politicians and the Stortinge have meant when you're going to stay on this basis is very positive. That's why it surprises me that we have such things as this, where we have individual treatment. It's about serious illness, it's about children, and it's about land that's hard to return to. We are not going to go into individual matters - but when we have so many strong indications in the matter, is it not worrying that an overall assessment does not give another result? Is that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1261	I've had the pleasure of going into a lot of things, in the sense that I've read the decisions, seen the background to the decisions, seen what kind of assessments are being made, and what kind of work is the basis for the decisions. I have to say that I feel very confident that if people who have applied for a stay in Norway based on a health situation are refused and returned, it is because the foreign authorities feel confident that it will be possible for them to receive treatment in their home country that is sufficient. There will certainly be situations where treatment could be of even better quality in Norway — but treatment in the home country will be sufficient. The question refers to the fact that a lack of treatment leads to the death of this 5-year-old, but I feel absolutely sure that Norwegian foreign authorities will not return this person if the danger is that he or she might die.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1268	That this would lead to the death of this 5-year-old, there was a Norwegian doctor who said. If he does not receive treatment, it will lead to death. It's very serious. But what's also serious about this case is that you have reason to believe that there can be a precious treatment this child gets when it comes back to Iran. Then we are asked again to the question: Is it satisfactory for the Norwegian authorities that there is a medical treatment, when one at the same time knows that this is perhaps a family that does not want to afford this treatment? In short, the exposure that has been in this period is very positive; one has done a lot for children in this period. But the engagement must not stop there. We've got a law in place that specialises in children, but we need a practice that also does. Does the Council not agree that in difficult cases such as this one must have a liberal practice in the case of sick children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1277	We have a more liberal practice for sick children than we do for sick adults. As I said, I feel absolutely certain that if the foreign agencies return sick children to their home country, it is because they feel confident that they will receive adequate treatment in their home country. That also means that you take into account, of course, that treatment will not be available due to price. So it's a very thorough, proper and proper assessment done by people in both UDI and UNE in this field. This can also be seen in the fact that the percentage of this type of case in Norway is significantly higher than that in most other countries. That's because we don't go on chords with man, don't go on chords with people with serious health problems. But that doesn't mean that everyone gets to be, that means that someone has to be returned. And it's a policy I support 100 percent and have full confidence in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1285	‘The manpower situation and recruitment of nurses and other health and care professionals will be very important in the coming years, especially in the light of the upcoming wave of old age. Today, a nurse with three years of higher education has an average starting salary of NOK 280 000. What is the Council of State’s assessment of using wages as an incentive to recruit and maintain this profession in the care and care sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1292	I agree with the representative that the human resources situation in the care sector is a major challenge in the coming years. This was, among other things: mentioned in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 on future care services, which were dealt with in the Stortingen a little over a year ago. We are facing an increasing need for personnel and competence, both in terms of capacity and in relation to multidisciplinaryism. Wages and salaries are one of several means of recruiting and maintaining staff in the health and care sector. Other instruments include the working environment, the professional environment, career opportunities and skills development. Unlike the other instruments, the pay conditions of employees are known as a result of wage negotiations between the social partners. Care professionals are women's dominated professions. The government set up the Equal Pay Commission in 2006, such as: should look at the effects of the sex-shared labour market and assess what could contribute to reducing pay differentials between women and men. This Commission delivered its report to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality on 21 February this year. The government has set out to meet the personnel challenges of the municipal care services high on its agenda. The strengthening of the local economy has helped us to achieve the target of 10,000 new annual works with relevant vocational training in the care sector by the end of 2009. In addition, the Government launched St.meld. No 25 a separate competence and recruitment plan for the municipal care services, Competence Lift 2015. The main objective of the commitment is to ensure adequate, stable and competent staffing of municipal care services. In the first few years, the main objective is to increase the formal level of education in the sector, ensuring gross access of about 4 500 health professionals per year. years, creating a wider range of disciplines and increasing emphasis on interdisciplinary learning, strengthening guidance, in-house training and continuing training, and contributing to the goal of 10,000 new annual works. There is a good dialogue between health and care authorities and education authorities to ensure a good capacity for education in the field of health and social education. In addition, the work of ensuring good access to staff for the care sector depends on the ability of municipalities to recruit and retain employees in their own sector and to make the profession attractive to young people and adults facing a choice of education. Parts of the care sector are likely to suffer from poor reputation. The best way to recruit and retain qualified personnel is to offer innovative and exciting jobs and to make this visible. Many municipalities succeed, but not all. The government's commitment to competence is part of a common promise for the care sector, where state authorities, municipalities, workers and educational actors must play a role.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1311	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I had hoped for a somewhat more positive attitude when it comes to using wages as an incentive. Today, then, nurses are afraid that 12,000 nurses may disappear into private business. We see that the search for the health professions goes back to the schools. If you go into a group as a clinical nutrition physiologist, you see that 40-50 pst. of this profession, which had been educated eight to ten years ago, has entered the private sector. When we know that we have a big wave of old age ahead of us, we should use pay as an incentive. I hope to get a slightly more positive answer related to the matter. This is because you want to hire 10,000 more, but then you also have to use some incentives to get it done. Can the Council of State make any more concrete statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1320	When the government announced that it would work in cooperation with the municipalities to get 10,000 more annual works in this important sector during 2009, there were several of our political opponents who ‘blow’ a little, as we say in Engerdal, of that promise. Now everything indicates that we're going to fulfill it-- and maybe overfill it as well. Much more of the new annual works than is the case today are going to have vocational training - today a large proportion of unskilled. They're doing a good job anyway, but they need to be more competent, because those who need help are sicker. In terms of salary, I am absolutely sure that the representative Fredriksen knows very well that pay is not a government decision. It is determined by negotiations between the social partners, and it would have been wrong for me as Minister of Health to comment on ongoing wage negotiations. The fact that wages are one of several means of attracting and retaining people is certain, but what this should look like is a matter for the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1327	I find it a little boring and sad to hear that the Council of State has such a passive attitude. One thing is that we need a lot of care workers in Norway. Another side of the matter is that the red-green government can really, if it wants to, decide whatever is related to the matter. When you know that caregivers are not really equal to men's workers today, you should at least think that you were interested in correcting this lack of equal treatment that is clearly present today. Let me say that it's a little sad that you talk to two tongues in a way: you want to have equality, but in reality you don't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1334	It is quite incredible to hear the representative of the Progress Party say that the Labour Party and this government are not concerned with equality. I don't think I should say more about it. It is difficult for me to do something about the fact that the representative Fredriksen thinks this is both boring and sad, but that in this government there is some passive attitude to equality and to recruiting people into the care sector is actually completely wrong. We're the ones who put down the Equal pay Commission. We are the ones who have put forward a separate plan for how to get more people into the sector and give them more skills over the years to come. We are the ones who have promised - and who are now contributing significantly more to the local economy than the government that supported Fredriksen and his party in the past period towards the municipalities - that in this sector there will be more skilled professionals with more competence that we absolutely need. We've also suggested that we get a sufficient number of apprenticeships for health professionals. We have recruitment measures for the training of health professionals. We are now qualifying quite specific adult health professionals – and I could continue to do so with a wide range of concrete measures. That it is characterised as “passivity”, at least means that the Progress Party and this government add two different things to that word – passivity is actually not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1347	‘For many years there has been a serious problem with an excessive number of reindeer in large parts of Finnland. The Finnland range is low and the animals are so debilitated that they cannot be transported for slaughter. The situation is very serious for the environment, animal welfare and meat quality. What will the Council of State do to put an end to the unworthy situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1354	The recent incident of the reindeer who died during transport to summer pastures has made a strong impression on me. Before I address the aspects related to animal welfare and status in this area, I will provide a general briefing on the Finnmark situation. The grazing situation of Finnmarks is influenced as it is known by several factors. In a longer-term perspective, the amount of grazing resources is affected by the number of pure pastures. In a short-term perspective, the grazing situation is affected by weather conditions. This means that weather conditions will determine access to the pastures. Amount of food on the land and access to this food affects the condition of the animals and the general animal welfare. After the large losses in the late 1990s and in 2001, due to good winter grazing conditions, there has been a significant increase in the reindeer numbers in Finnmark. In other words, animals have been in better condition, and production has been increasing. During this period, among other things: the slaughtering of Finnmark increased by a total of 57 pst. Despite increased outlets, good winter grazing conditions have resulted in a higher purity in some parts of Finnmark than foreseen. At the same time, grazing studies over the period 1998-2006 show a positive development of 28 pst. low growth on the winter pastures of Finnmarksvidda. To describe the situation that has arisen today, one first has to look at weather conditions in recent times. Winter 2007-2008 has been relatively low until approx. Four weeks ago, as it's been snowing up to one meter all over Finnmark. This has led some Siidas - groupings of reindeer who are clean together - with high reindeer numbers now have a poor level of purity. However, this is not the dominant image. In general, the situation is such that most cleaners are in good proportion to the season. It is important that as far as advice is concerned, you are prepared to prevent what we have just witnessed from happening. In this context, it has to be mentioned that a few years ago emergency teams were set up, consisting of representatives of the industry, the Food Authority and the Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung, to monitor the grazing situation in reindeer management. In West Finland, the preparedness group met for approx. a week ago to assess the grazing situation as a result of the high snow levels. As a result of this meeting, several measures have been taken. In the case of applications from the Siidae, the management of the sewage treatment plant will pay funds for crisis. The application of clean out until summer grazing on the islands goes as normal. However, the animals for summer grazing in the inland districts are detained on winter pasture. Several siidas now feed, while generally trying to keep the animals calm. Furthermore, it can also be mentioned that the Food Safety Authority will follow-up on pages where there are documented low slaughter weights, with intensified supervision. Finally, I must point out that this government has done a great deal to balance the reindeer with the natural basis. This is a problem that Stortinget has been working on for many years. Although we are not yet in line with the challenges facing us, there is a lot of evidence that we are finally on the right track. In this context, I can, among other things: mention that with the new reindeer management law, we now have a better way of ensuring ecologically sustainable resource management with a grid that is adapted to the grazing base. The law imposes a high level of self-government and increased responsibilities on business operators to achieve this objective, while providing authorities with easier access to sanctions against illegal practices. In the follow-up to the new law, we have had a positive and necessary dialogue with the industry. A collaborative project between authorities, industry and research is developing objective and scientifically based criteria for an ecologically sustainable scale. Such agreed criteria shall serve as an aid to the work of district governments and authorities in the setting of the reindeer number. Based on previous years' experience of redefinition, it is clear that cooperation and accountability are necessary in order to meet the challenges facing the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1371	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that action has been taken, but the Council of State also showed that it has been working on such measures for many years without having had the necessary effect. I sincerely hope that something more concrete will be done. Is it now that the Council of State is largely satisfied with grazing, and that the measures that have now been taken are no longer overgrazing at the Finnmarks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1376	No, I'm definitely not going to lean back and say that things are in their best order in terms of the reindeer challenges on the Finnmarks. What I do think it's important to focus on in this regard is that we're on the right track, and that we're starting to see the effect of solid working to get the ecology and sustainability up and down as something important in reindeer management policy. The fact that we've changed the system of subsidies, so that we're sponsoring animal withdrawals, getting animals out of the flock, to the slaughterhouse and out of the store, has been a very important measure, and the fact that we now have a reindeer law, which the Stortinget has recently adopted, and which gives us better opportunities to go in and control the reindeer if it turns out to be too high, I think it's unusually important for us to get even better in the area of reindeer management policy. So the sum of this, that we now see that the pasturage on Finnmarkswideda is improving, that we have taken some action, and that we have a sanction option in the future that we haven't had before, gives hope and faith that this is an industry in recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1381	Such is the situation today, there is a lack of reindeer meat in both shops and restaurants. The shops don't have meat for sale, and the restaurants take it off the menu, and we also see that what is being slaughtered is of poor quality. Has the Council of State considered an opportunity, something that can help these industries get meat? Is there anything we can do temporarily, possibly import at reduced customs duties? For the current rate of duty, it is quite high and not acceptable at all in relation to the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1386	It's a slightly different topic than the question, but I'm going to answer it: the situation will be that if we put down the customs duty and so set down the price in the market in Norway on reindeer meat, it will be less profitable to slaughter reindeer on the field in Finnmark. The industry's profitability will go down. We know that the culture of parts of the reindeer industry is such that if the profitability is poor, the reindeer owners collect capital by keeping the animals in the flock. This means that the worst response we can now take to the industry is to weaken profitability, weaken incentives to take animals out, get animals at the slaughterhouse and go to the store. I am enough, with all due respect, relatively sure that the measure proposed here by the representative Røbekk Nørve will be the least appropriate measure to contribute to a positive development on the Finnmark range and get animals out and provide an ecological balance on this scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1397	‘The Children’s Protection Officer in Skien claims in Telemarksavias on 9 April that Bufetat region south on several occasions chooses not to use available capacity in private foster homes, and rather allows children in serious life crisis to wait in long queues for a government offer. Will the Council of State ensure that these children are given the obligation to provide child protection as soon as possible where capacity is available, or does the Council of State support the instructions contained in the disposal note that Bufetate is not to purchase private foster homes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1404	In order to care for the best interests of the child, Bufetat must work to find homes that are suitable for the individual child. It is a challenging task, regardless of whether the foster home is linked to a private measure or whether it has a government or municipal agreement. The Ministry has, through the letter of assignment to Bufdir for 2008, instructed it to use its own State institutions as far as possible. The remainder of the need shall be covered by purchases from private operators. In the case of the purchase of private spaces, ideal actors shall be given priority over commercial ones. The resources used for the protection of children shall be of benefit to the children. We will avoid that resources generate large profits and high profits from commercial players. The same is true for foster homes. In the absence of a suitable state foster home, private foster homes may be used. When using private foster homes, ideals shall be given over to commercial ones. The use of commercially based foster homes shall be limited on the same grounds as for commercial institutions. But neither the department nor the Bufdir have given any indication in their management documents that private foster homes should not be used. Nor is it the case that children should be moved out of well-functioning commercial foster homes for economic or political reasons. The South Region has written in its 2008 letter of disposal that private foster homes should not be purchased. The Regional Director will approve, where necessary, the location in foster homes associated with private entities. Up to this year, the region has concluded five new agreements with private measures. Purchases of private foster homes shall be notified to the regional director concerned. Such purchases shall always be made within the budgetary framework and in line with the applicable public procurement legislation. The Ministry will follow up this matter in the management dialogue with the Directorate and ensure that the guidelines on the use of private child protection measures are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1423	I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up this matter. The state council will then discover that there is probably not only one case, but that there are enough. I am quite certain that the Council of State will eventually also become acquainted with matters in other parts of the country where we see that the queues are growing. Unfortunately, this is a general trend. Then we see from the letter of assignment from the Department and through the instructions developed in the South region, that there is a significant tightening of the use of private actors. One thing is the picture given in this hall of how things should be, another thing is what's actually happening. It's actually like there's kids who don't get the help they're going to have. And we can't have it like that. I wonder if the Council of State will follow up on this, into Bufdir, to see if there is any correlation between the requirements of Bufdir and the requirements of the Department in its letter of assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1432	We have a challenge related to some children not being accommodated in foster homes in time. There are no ideological reasons why these children have to wait. I do not now have an overview of how much capacity we have in private foster homes, but I have been informed once before that there are 20 such homes that are ready to accept children. In the case of foster homes connected to Bufdir, we have 575 homes that are ready to accept children, and 165 children are waiting. Then why isn't it that the children can move directly into these homes? Well, that's because there's not always a match between the needs of these children and what the different foster homes can offer -- it can depend on where they live, it can affect the sibling, and there may be children and young people who have special needs. So the main reason why we can't place these children quickly enough is not ideological counter-representations, but that we're working with good positions. Children and young people do not deserve to change foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1437	The Council of State points to just what we think is the weakness of the new child protection that is now beginning to stand out, namely that diversity is shrinking, and that the opportunity to provide tailoring for the children is going to get worse because now everything is ploughing into state systems, which can't reasonably be expected to have the width and the nuances that the whole has today, and that should have evolved further. The fact that this is not an ideological question will be a little difficult to understand from the initial response of the Council of State, where she carefully assumed that this was a priority for state deployments, priority being given to places, and priority being given to what they call 'ideal' actors. It's just an ideological question. It's an ideological question whether you want to bet on a state system or a system where private actors are also involved. There can be no doubt that the problems we are seeing now are about actually putting ideology in front of those who are not getting the offer they are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1444	We have no indication that children have to wait for ideological reasons. It is also true that the foster homes today are far more tailor-made than they have been before. The foster homes have received much better training. If the representative Thommessen takes the time to talk to foster families, he will discover that the follow-up of the individual family is much more thorough than before. We are now placing more emphasis on family-based measures and on strengthening foster homes' skills. If we look - proportionately - at how many foster homes we have connected to public actors, it is 7,000, while we have about. 200 associated with private operators. So that private actors can take the overall challenges of child protection and solve all of these, I don't have much faith in. I think we need cooperation where we prioritise ideal actors rather than commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1454	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers has proposed to give the Labour Inspectorate greater control responsibilities and the possibility to promote school-owners’ obligations in order to ensure the working environment of the students. In 8 years, the Labour Inspectorate closed 128 schools because there is a danger to life and health. The Council of State has rejected the fact that the proposals of the Progress Party have something separate and will rest on existing legislation. Why does the Council of State not see the need for rapid and concrete changes, and why does the Council of State accept that many pupils are exposed to a health-threatening work environment on a daily basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1463	Let me first stress that it is my clear belief that not a single student should be trained in a school environment that can cause physical or mental damage. In this context, I would like to make it clear that if municipalities or county councils and other school owners do not have a physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning, they clearly break with established statutory duties. To the proposal from the Progress Party to give the Labour Inspectorate responsibility for the school environment to the students, I would like to stress that moving supervision from the County State and the State Health Inspectorate to the Labour Inspectorate will not in itself lead to changes in the physical or mental education environment at the schools in the country. In order to bring about such changes, it is necessary for those who own the schools to comply more closely with the obligations they already have under current laws. A new organisation of state supervision, as the Progress Party wishes, is not, in my view, the right measure today. Today, there are training laws and regulations on the protection of the health of children in kindergartens and schools that legislate for the school environment for pupils, and supervision has been added to the staff of the education directors and state health authorities at the county boards. The two supervisory bodies are based on the statutory tasks, i.e.: guidance and review procedures and supervisory work, with a specific knowledge of the school environment. The Labour Inspectorate does not have this knowledge today. Signals from the supervisory authorities in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate show just that the national supervisory bodies have their own specific competence and that cooperation across sectors based on current legislation is a better solution than breaking up the supervision system that is now well established. It should also be noted that the State has a statutory function as a cooperative body for all state supervisory activities directed against the local government sector, including the supervision carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. This, in my view, is reflected in the fact that the current system of supervision should continue. I also have no knowledge that the organisation that we have today of the state supervision of the home of the Education Act, the Local Health Service Act and the Work Environment Act is of little use in itself. Therefore, the way forward to ensure the school environment for students is not to reorganize supervision, but to ensure that the state and state health authorities carry out even more effective supervision directed at municipal, county and private school owners on the basis of the existing law. Finally, I would like to mention that there are already initiatives taken to increase knowledge about the state of Norwegian school buildings. A nationwide investigation has been carried out to see if schools are approved under environmental protection regulations in kindergartens and schools. The results of this study will be published shortly. I am busy that both school owners and supervisors benefit from the results of their further work. On the one hand, I suggested that the school owners plan and implement the measures and improvements necessary to meet the legal requirements of the physical and psychosocial school environment. On the other hand, I would ask the County to use the results of the study as an indicator set in relation to the priorities and preparations for the upcoming supervision to be carried out under the training law. Both the Minister of Health and Health and I are concerned about following the developments of the findings of the investigation. For this reason, in the autumn of 2009, a follow-up study of the physical environment will be carried out at all ground and secondary schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1478	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the investigations are coming, and that they will be followed up. The reason why the Progress Party has promoted this proposal and the background to this issue is that today’s system is too poor. In Tønsberg’s magazine today, there is an example from the municipality of Horten. The heading is ‘Millions of cup soup’. It says: ‘So far is the bill up to $75 million. The municipality has budgeted nine million. The mould creates a skull for the municipality of Horten. [[...]] A combination of older buildings, poor maintenance, poor building constructions and increased focus on indoor climate will provide municipalities with economic challenges for many years to come. [[...]] However, the mushrooms in Eurosafe are not surprised. Bad maintenance is a general problem. Municipalities are struggling with small allocations and the watchmasters are being deprioritised.» This is in a situation where the current government has removed the interest compensation scheme. There are no state incentives or financial assistance for municipalities that are struggling to improve the indoor climate and working environment of students. Will the Council of State now do anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1490	Yes, it's a big problem that elephants around Norway experience a physical and psychosocial school environment that they shouldn't experience. There is no doubt that those who do not care for an acceptable physical school environment break the law. We're forced to work systematically with that. Then we have to be willing to spend money cleaning up school buildings. The scheme that we've had over a few years has contributed to the build-up of well over 1,000 school buildings throughout Norway. Then we're forced to look at how municipalities and county councils can give priority to maintaining their buildings, and we're forced to carry out a better and more effective supervision. What has surprised me a little bit is that the Progress Party's answer is the transfer of responsibility between two institutions. The government believes that both increased funds, increased focus on municipalities and improved supervision is the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1497	To date, I'm just asking the Council to read the proposal again. There is a manifest misunderstanding that shifting responsibility is the only measure. I experience that the Council of State does what he often does, namely that he does not take the responsibility he has as Minister of Knowledge. He shifts responsibility from one municipality to another, for example. Horten. He started his answer to the first question by saying that not one student should experience having a health-damaging environment. This is serious. Mushrooms disperse gases and toxins that may be harmful. Fungal spores may lead, inter alia, to: fatigue, immunodeficiency, asthma, allergies, eye and respiratory problems and headache. Some moulds can lead to cancer and kidney failure. This is too serious to be able to push responsibility down and wait for new explanations. I will challenge the Council of State again: how will the Council of State now ensure that there will not be one student in today's school who will experience a health-threatening and harmful working environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1506	Students in Horten and all other places in Norway can feel confident that they have me and the Ministry of Knowledge in their backs to fight for the best possible school environment, and that everyone should get their dishes met. We have strengthened the permissions of municipalities and county councils in Norway. From the descent under the previous government, the arrow has turned to improvements. The permissions have also been maintained in many places in Norway. So in this period, we have also had an interest-rate compensation scheme, which is now out of date, which has contributed to the build-up of many school buildings. I'm busy considering the priorities that a do when it comes to maintaining around. Not least, we need to be aware that the supervision that is being carried out, the checks and checks that are being carried out, are becoming better and more effective, so that errors are detected and then followed up in the creation process. In this way, we can improve the physical school environment for elephants in Horten and other places in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-23.ana.ud1988e1513	That was the last question in question. - The meeting's over.
