ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e35	An application for sick leave is submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland from 4 June until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Gjertrud Kjellesvik, is invited to meet during the period of leave. Gjertrud Kjellesvik is elected to the Lagninget for the time she meets the representative of Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e56	Gjertrud Kjellesvik is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e62	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. - Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of Stortinget's remaining meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e80	Thousands of children use their powers every day to protect themselves from violence, abuse and care failures in their own homes. Many of these children do not receive the necessary protection until they have suffered significant injuries, injuries that often last their whole lives. The last thing these children need is to move more times than they need to. Most people have experienced a lot of broken relationships and a lot of insecurity in early childhood. Therefore, it is very important that those with the daily responsibility for children in the area of child protection can rely on long-term and safe framework conditions. Child protection cannot be compared with bus running or catering as an outsourced option. Child protection is poor for traditional supply competitions, where short-term economic gains often become the focus of long-termity and a qualitatively good supply to meet the needs of the child. The National Audit Service has carried out a business analysis of Bufetat. The result shows a lack of control and control. The National Audit Office asks the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and Buffetat to ensure that children and young people receive a supply that is appropriate to their needs. Many contributors to institutions report concerns related to price pressure and short-sightedness, and lack of focus on quality and on children’s needs. The Christian People's Party of the Government must take action to ensure that children and young people receive a good quality offering that is more suited to their needs than today. Many children in institutions live in fear that their home will go bankrupt, they will lack more adults around them in the institution, or they will be in line for foster homes or institutional places. The Christian People's Party is concerned about whether the children get the most tailored offerings, or whether economic priorities govern the supply of their children. The public sector in Norway purchases over 250 billion dollars each year. Act on public acquisitions is required by Section 1 of the Act. ‘contribute to increased value creation in society by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public acquisitions based on business and non-discrimination. The regulatory framework shall also contribute to the high integrity of the public, so that the public is confident that public acquisitions are carried out in a socially appropriate manner.’» Public procurement is largely based on competition. Competition in public procurement has led to State achieving the objectives of efficient resource use, non-discrimination and integrity. One avoids the waste of public Community funds and the integrity of the public is weakened by camaraderie and corruption. It is therefore important that competition, as a general rule, be used as a means of public procurement. But competition will not always be a useful tool. Health and care services, including child-resistance services, differ from other services because of the need to provide good and prudent services to specifically deferred groups of users. Child protection is not a universal market for the purchase and sale of services, but a part of government authority. The state has no competitor who buys child-resistance services. The Christian People's Party believes that a good child protection service has the will that those who have the day-to-day responsibility can rely on long-termity and safe framework conditions. Childcare is therefore poorly suited to traditional supply competitions, where short-term economic criteria are usually decisive. Competitive exposure means that institutions must praise their services in such a way that there is little room for professional development, development of competences and the necessary transfer of competences between the different actors in the field. Organisations that previously cooperated on the professional and organisational development of the field are now becoming competitors. It often takes a long time to build a good relationship between the addition and the child of a child protection institution. Short contracts may therefore lead to poorer quality of supply due to unstable framework conditions. Short-term contracts make necessary investments in property and equipment difficult. When prices are pressed, established enterprises can be reduced, even if they provide very high quality child protection services and with satisfied users. This means that the professional environment it has taken several decades to build will be deleted with a pen stroke. There is a lack of resources and incentives to reduce a necessary deficiency in the field of child protection. The Christian People's Party wants legislation to ensure a lack of action within, among others. drug treatment and care, rehabilitation, care for the elderly and child and family protection. Ideal care or child protection institutions go bankrupt due to the fact that the government is pushing down the daily price and providing for poor conditions for long-term operation, especially important competences and knowledge will be lost, and thousands of patients and child protection children will lose their supply. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that non-profit organisations providing health, care or child protection services must be independent of the requirement for supply - whether it is the state or the municipality that is to provide services. At the same time, it is important to note that there is a steady increase in children receiving child protection measures. This means that child protection needs to be extended, while prevention must be given greater priority than at present. Children living in a difficult life situation shall have the highest priority. Safe growth is about getting all children well cared for and good development opportunities. Where the world is failing, child protection must come in and help. We need to see the children who need help - not just the institutions, the frameworks and the short-term economic gain by using the cheapest offer. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will ensure that the best, and not short-term, economic interests of children are governed by the provision of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e119	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for giving me the opportunity again to clarify the government's policy in this important area. The representative focuses on two aspects: the use of tender systems and the economy of the national child protection system. I'll start with the last one first. The best interests of the child shall always be the starting point for the choice of measures. All measures and locations shall and must therefore be assessed on the basis of individual needs. This is also clarified in our letter of assignment to Bufetat. That's what it says. ‘The Executive Board shall, in the light of its investigations, action plans and in cooperation with the municipalities, ensure that the child’s needs are an overall and guiding starting point for the selection of actions.’;» This is very clear. Often, family and community-based interventions will be the best for the child. Sometimes foster homes or institution placements can be the right thing to do. Decisions must be based on a knowledge of the individual child and a sound professional foundation. The best use of resources is an important objective of national child protection. However, the needs of individual children should therefore be crucial to the choice of action to be taken. At the time of the acquisition of child protection in 2004, no funds were put in place for migration in the framework of national child protection. It was provided that the conversion costs were to be covered by savings. This proved not to be a realistic assumption of the government of Bondevik and the then Councillor of Laila Davay. The first thing we did when we took over was therefore to make additional appropriations to increase the ability to implement what was the aim of the child protection reform. So the Stoltenberg government has granted 700 million. kr more to the State Children's Protection than the Bondevik Government did. It is a commitment that I am proud of and that is absolutely necessary to implement the objectives of this reform. When all of this is said, it is also the way to assess the economy and control the activities within the framework of the Storting. So there's nothing new about this government's policy. Exactly the same formulations were found in the previous magnification period. In the last budget Laila Davøy presented, she clarified the need for good professional and economic governance of child protection. She also clarified the need to reduce the cost growth of child protection. I therefore expect the interpellant to agree with the assumptions made by the Minister for Children and Family during the previous period. So to the question of tendering and putting out competition. The best interests of the child are a fundamental principle in the choice of child protection measures for each child. Buffetate is therefore required to use the capacity of its own emergency gear as far as possible. In the absence of an appropriate State measure, private measures may be used - and they may be used. In the case of institutions, half are private. In the case of the purchase of private spaces, the bulk of the population has agreed to the prioritisation of non-profit actors rather than commercial ones. This shall contribute to the benefit of the resources used for child protection. No large profits and profits shall be generated by commercial operators. There have been questions about why the State Child Protection Service has chosen to add up to the purchase of places from private operators after competition. It is asked why we have not continued the agreements between the county and private actors. That's because the law requires it. Public acquisitions shall be transparent, well documented and open to all relevant suppliers. It also applies to the purchase of commercial child protection services. This is important in order to avoid corruption and to ensure effective use of public funds. We are also in the future dependent on commercial offers. I make it clear that commercials can offer good quality offers to children and young people. The child’s best interests must be decisive, and it is therefore not a question of moving children who have good offers from a commercial actor – unless it is in the best interests of the child. From 2008, acquisitions of child-restraint sites are centralised in Bufdir. A development work is under way for future acquisitions. They shall contribute to the objective of an equivalent, differentiated and adequate provision of child protection. At the heart of this work is ensuring good quality in institutions with which contracts are concluded. At the same time, emphasis will be placed on the long-term and predictability of institutions. It's good for kids living there. With regard to the non-profit organisations, the government wants a good and close interaction with them. Tenders are based on market thinking. This Government acknowledges that the ideal organisations in the field of child protection are alienated from market thinking. We have therefore gone as far as it is possible to take advantage of the exemption shelter provided by the Public Acquisitions Act. The ministry has made it clear in a letter to Bufetat that we want to counteract a culture in which the ideal actors protect good practices and ideas like competition secrets. For us, cooperation is important. In order to improve the predictability of the non-profit organisations, an extension of the contract period has been adopted. It increases from two years plus the possibility of a two-year extension, to four years, with the possibility of a two-year extension thereafter. The selection of institutions shall take into account the need to maintain good and stable professional environments. One shall also take into account good cooperation with municipal child protection and other disciplines, such as: paediatric psychiatry. This is how the state takes responsibility for seeing the whole of the offer to children and young people. My impression is that the non-profit organizations are satisfied with these clarifications. Initially, the 4-year rule will also apply to commercial operators. However, since the reduction in the use of commercial offers is a measure, the length of the contract must be assessed by Bufatat on a case-by-case basis. The government has taken both the economy and the criticism of child protection tendering seriously. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party in opposition seems to be in line with the Government in these questions. I also want to do my best to create a professional and economic framework that helps to realise the vision of an equivalent and qualitatively good child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e164	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not doubt the involvement with regard to the best of the child as the starting point for the supply to be made. But what worries me is that when I get a description of the realities, for example. from the Buffetat team working to provide children in need of an institutional service, a good supply, more people feel that the price leads to the best supply to the child, and that in the letters of assignment they receive, there are so clear indications about the price that it is the thing that takes the greatest note. When the Committee on Family Affairs and Cultural Affairs has been on a trip to the Committee, we have received several examples both there and from others that indicate that the economy controls more than the needs of children. It worries me. That's why I'm wondering what to do to make sure that there are children's needs that should be the most important element, as the Council of State says. We are aware that the budget framework should be maintained. It is also a goal that we should not spend so much money on child protection, in the sense that one should do so well to prevent problems and provide help in the world, so that one can hope that this situation does not occur. But the reality is that once the needs are there - and there is a great need - it is very important that these children are taken good care of and that they are given a good care. This is also the case with negotiations and offers, for example. from non-profit organisations. What they can tell us about - at least several people I've met with - is that in the negotiations they are pushed so hard at the price that they can't make as good a offer as they would like, because the price becomes a recurring issue. What worries me, too, is whether these organisations will in the future be able to operate these institutions as a good care for the children. I think it's very important that we have a lack, and that we have different offers. But when we run so hard on a supply system, and it's so hard to compete that the volunteer organisations that have worked together in the past can't share information because of the supply system, we can risk them going down, and then in a way, the world goes bankrupt. That is why I hope that the Council of State will go into what is the supply system. Christian People's Party has a Document No. Eight proposals under consideration in the Industry Committee. There are other countries that we can compare with, which have less stringent requirements when it comes to supply that we actually have, when we look at non-profit organizations and foundations. Fosterheim is also very important. We could have had our own debate on this because we know that foster home work is extremely important. It's about how you recruit and probably get foster homes, but the professional and economic dishes are not good enough. Today, we may be missing foster parents that we absolutely need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e177	I agree with the assessments made by the representative regarding the need to look at private non-profit actors as something different and more similar to the public intervention apparatus. So we have a law on public acquisitions in Norway. We follow that law, but we have tightened the law as far as possible to give the non-profit organisations good framework conditions. As far as the framework conditions are concerned, we believe that they have improved in at least the last few years, as we have increased transfers to state child protection. After all, the National Audit Office came up with a criticism of the Stortinget when we carried out the child protection reform in 2004, in order to ensure that there was not enough money for this reform. That is why this has been important for us, because the prerequisite for not running bidding rounds that go beyond the needs of children is that there is a good enough economy. So there's always questions about whether the economy is good enough, and we need to have an ongoing discussion about that. We must be open to dialogue with the actors, whether they are public actors, private commercial players or private ideal actors - I have also met many of them - and that is important in relation to the criteria we use. So we're not going to use other economic criteria than what was the case under the previous government. We also have very clear demands that the child's needs should be decisive here. I believe that professionally good offers are a common challenge for institutions, regardless of the type of property. I would like to inform you that the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family is currently reviewing its action plan. They will identify existing and future needs for child protection measures, so that we know they are of high quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e190	There have been many debates in the United Kingdom on child protection. That's good, because child protection has tasks in society that require both human, professional and financial resources so that we can best help children and young people who need it. That is exactly why I was quite surprised at the arrangement of today's interpellation on child protection, where it is claimed that only the short-term economic interests that govern child protection are not the best interests of the child. I would also like to remind you that the Riksrevision report on Buffetat, which was debated in Stortinget yesterday, is quite clear that the state child protection reform that came under the previous government in 2007 was significantly underfunded. On that basis, it may not have been so strange that the then State Council, Mr Davøy, stressed in the 2005 letter of award to Buffdir that it was important to: ‘reduce the cost growth of child protection by contributing to a gradual transition from the use of expensive institutional measures to the use of effective family and community-based measures’. This government has increased the grant to the State child protection by more than 700 million. NOK, in addition to the significant increase in the size of the municipalities. Whatever the type of framework, it is that all sectors of society have to ensure that the resources available to them have the shortest possible path to your needs, in this case to the young people and young people to whom child protection is to help, and to those who take care of them daily. When both the previous government and this government have called for a distortion of measures from institutional use to foster homes and family and community-based measures, it is in line with child protection recommendations and justifications. Of course, the fact that such measures also provide good use of resources is also an advantage. At the same time, we have stressed the need to have a wide range of child protection measures that can be adapted as much as possible to the needs of individual children. Of course, institutions of different kinds are also included here. Not least groups of young people for whom child protection is concerned will need a wide range of measures because at this time of life they already have so many different and perhaps even heavy experiences in their luggage. I actually agree a little with the interpellant at one point -- not just a little agreement, I very much agree -- and that is that child protection is not suitable for commercialization and market outsourcing. That is why we believe that when we are to have fewer institutions in the field of child protection, we need to rely more on public institutions and institutions in the direction of non-profit actors and organisations rather than commercial providers. Then it is important that we find good non-discrimination procedures for the relevant providers, as the Council of State also explained a little while ago. I am pleased that the Ministry now receives a legal assessment of how to find a good and manageable contractual practice with the child protection providers that comply with the provisions of EEA law and that the interpellant also called for in its statement. We have already put in place important measures to achieve the predictability and quality we need in the field of child protection, including: through increased contractual periods for contracts with private operators and that any termination of contracts with an institution is to be assessed in full concrete terms against the needs of the residents of the institution. Other important elements are the promotion of cooperation between child protection actors on methods and professional development, as also mentioned by the Council of State in its statement, the dialogue on both quality and price, and the emphasis on ensuring that all those working on different child protection measures have pay and working conditions in line with the applicable collective bargaining agreement. Child protection is doing a lot of good work. At the same time, this is a social area that we constantly have to work hard to improve. It's about the most vulnerable among us, children and young people who don't have adults who can take full care of them. Then we must dare to go close and continuously evaluate the measures we are taking for these kids, whether they are in the hands of public or private actors. I believe that good working conditions and support functions for those who care for children and young people in foster homes, focus on research and competence measures and sensible and targeted organisation are inputs that can provide us with the child protection we want. Then we still have to provide sufficient resources that can go without detours and as directly as possible to those we're going to help. It will give us child protection for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e215	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for once again putting child protection on the agenda. It is good that, as parliamentarians, we can also talk about the cause of the weakest. Out in the real world, there are children, two-year-olds, who are alone at home two or three days continuously without having to change their diapers because there has never been anyone who has cared to pottery them. There's broken bread and bottled water. This is because, in some municipalities, there is no money, or resources that it is called fine, to intervene. It is too late to deal with issues where children live with drug users, or at home where parents do not have the right to care for their children. We heard the Council of State talk about taking into account the individual needs of children. It is very nice that the Council of State has that attitude, but unfortunately it does not. Out in the real world, there are a lot of kids suffering. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has set up a sample to look at the state measures and future needs. I think that might be absolutely necessary. The vast majority of child-restraints ask themselves, when they grow up, the question: Why didn't the municipality intervene? Or, why did the public intervene so late? In New York, the parents, if there's obvious care failure, are sentenced to go to school in the direction of the public or of voluntary teams and organizations, who have made it their job to teach parents to be parents, because it's not all given to be parents. Too many times, the municipalities reject measures, especially for young people in private institutions, and this is financially justified, despite the fact that these young people need specially organised institutional places. It is not likely that we will have more and more children and young people who are both obnoxious and violent and who will also become drug addicts. There are very few public institutions that care for these young people today. They are therefore mixed with children and young people who have been subjected to domestic violence or sexual assault. Now, when we see that this government is making a significant effort to use public measures, I'm going to ask the Council of State whether she's thought through what she's going to do to the outrageous and very difficult young people who have an offer in private institutions, but who in public are being mixed with the non-exhaustive children. Do you intend to build up a publicly-protected offer for very ill-fated children? Do you intend to use the private offer further, or do you intend to mix the use? The previous child protection reform was aimed at building up public institutions. At the time, I was a politician in the county. Then you had to bet on the private institutions. Now you've gone to a 50 pst mix. private and 50 pst. public. Despite the fact that it is economically conditional, it turns out that public institutions have a significantly higher daily price than private ones. I could imagine asking if the Council of State has any visions about public institutions for outlying young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e232	Once again, we're talking about child protection. It's an area where unfortunately we still get a lot of worry messages, it's from municipal employees who feel that the area against state child protection is difficult, from employees in institutions that feel exposed, and - perhaps the most difficult conversations - the conversations we have with parents who feel that their child is not being cared for. It's a little--what to say--frustrating that we still have to come back to this. I think we have to ask ourselves if the grips that have been taken have been taken in a sequence and at a rate that is reasonable. One thing is to look at the fact that the state reform was initially underfunded. Now it's been three years, and we've noticed that the budgets have increased. It's fine. The question is, do they have to be increased even more? Another question is, how many new tasks do you have to do at the same time? We know that Bufetat had significant drive-in problems when they started. There were considerable problems getting started. There were major manning changes, there were problems in managing the economy, etc. In addition, there is a need to rehabilitate a child-restraint with a large private proportion of the places for a child-restraint with a large public proportion of the places that you now want. So you're going to have to build state spaces, and so you're going to have a smoke in the system that's itself quite demanding. In addition, smaller, single asylum seekers are included, now up to 15 years. The next step is from 15 to 18 years. I think we're going to think about when that step is going to relate to what resources you actually have. At the top of it all, we're in a situation where the total number of children is increasing, so the needs are greater. Buffetat has very big problems, and they're assigned tasks -- almost to say -- one on top of the other before the first one is solved. We can talk about the child's best, but the question of the child's best appears to be a speck if we're not willing to renovate on ideological demands, and if we don't manage to deal with the economy that's going to happen in order to have the assumptions that Buffetat is actually doing the job. The council repeated here what we've heard many times, that when choosing places you first have to look for a state place. If you don't, you have to look for a place that's run by a non-profit, and then you might have to find a private one. Already there a race has been laid that is ideologically imprinted, and we're probably going to have opportunities to discuss whether it's a reasonable ideology. Let us just note that today is approx. half of the places private, and that such conversion as you want on an ideological basis, is actually a pain factor. For the children who today have to leave the Swastu, because it closes on 1 July, and hopefully they are going into a public action that they do not know what is yet, this is a burden, and we have to take that with us. You can't phase out a system or remove a system until you have another system in place, and that's what we're experiencing. They are now talking about having non-profit-making actors or non-profit-making organisations. Governments used both terms. Just there we have a big woolen unit. The reality is that you can't answer what it is. The Council of State is unlikely to respond to what a non-profit is in a legal sense in relation to who should have a future and who should not have a future. Half of these sites are provided by actors who do not know if they have a future in Norway. Only that means such a big uncertainty factor that it obviously has to go out on the kids. There must be a proper plan. If you want to have private actors -- ideal or commercial -- in the future, you have to be able to tell them what you want, whether they have any space here or not. It is then necessary to determine the strategy to be followed in such a conversion process. Today, it's floating over a cane and a stone. Today there is no one in the private commercial field who actually knows if they have a future. All we know is that they're being pushed madly at price. At the same time, we know that within the public system, no one has been able to explain the cost of individual types of spaces. They operate on a large, liberal basis, making it absolutely impossible to have a comparative basis. It is also clear that there should be no competitive outsourcing. That means you're willing to swallow more expensive public places than have cheaper private ones. That means you get less out of the money. I also think it would be a good idea to say that you are driving at the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e247	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think there'll be more debates in the future. What I think is a challenge is that sometimes it feels like we're on different planets when we discuss and hear how the description of the situation is central, and how one experiences it in different municipalities and states. There's a lot of good going on in child protection. There are many children who report that child protection has contributed to their coming out of a difficult and complicated life situation in the world and to an institution or foster parent, giving them a new start in life. There's a lot of people who get help, and there's a lot of good things going on. There are amazingly many additions that make an incredible effort. However, it is not good enough when we, for example: if they have to have an institution space for a child under 12 years of age, they must send the child from the south of Sunnmøre to Trøndelag, because there is no institutional space nearer. And if there's a young woman who gets pregnant, has a child and has to go to a home to work on the relationship with the child, then they have to be sent the same number of miles, because there's no institutional provision that's closer. It's important to think that we're going to have a lack and a good deal, but we can't say that we're going to build up the institutional supply until we know that we have a good enough supply afterwards. Nor can we build up the institutional supply until we know that we have enough, good enough and right foster parents for those who need it. We need a lack of supply, and we need to make sure that it exists in the future. That's why I want to encourage the Council of States to meet with some of the actors who are doing this. Within voluntary teams and organisations and other non-profit organisations, many people do a lot of work and would like to contribute. The description of the reality that they give me as a politician is completely different from the one I meet here at Stortinget. It's important for us to listen to the reality and experience it for the most vulnerable children. When it comes to foster homes, it is very important to listen to foster parents, to what experience they have, to how important it is that they receive follow-up, relief, and that they also get good employment and insurance schemes. If there is a foster mother who is being injured by being a foster mother today, she has no right to insurance. She can't get any replacements. There is a sea of uncertainty around the legal rights, and it applies to both state and municipal foster homes. If we are to make sure that someone will be foster parents in the future, we must take many steps. We need to look at the health and listen to those who have problems, in order to take even better action. Then we can discuss the budget. The Christian People's Party has proposed even more money than the Child Protection Government in the last few years' budget, but we need to look at both the content and the economy. In the future, I also hope that the Council of State will look at the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e260	I got a little worried here instead when the representative Karin Woldseth spoke of two-year-olds who went with diapers because they had not started potting. I would like to make it clear that there is no basis for action in child protection if a two-year-old has not started pot training. This is very normal. Then I would like to thank you for a good discussion. I think it's important what the interpellant is about: having dialogue between the actors in this field. We want that, and we have a good dialogue. I'm sure it could be even better. We are also committed to improving the rights of foster parents, and have a dialogue on this. This debate also shows that there is now a strong cross-political consensus that there is great faith in child protection. This is probably a change. We also see this in society. According to polls, people have greater confidence in child protection now than was the case some years ago. It shows that child protection is doing a good job. If we look at child protection concerns, they are largely from the parents themselves. So the parents see that these are measures that they benefit from. As for the discussion beyond that, I would say that I share enough interpellant's view of child protection much more than I share the view of the Right and Advance Party on child protection. Private institutions also have a place in the protection of children in the future. There are not ideological reasons why we want to limit their use. This is because we want the money to benefit the children. Where, then, does the boundary between private non-profit and private commercial actors go? That's where I see we don't have enough boundaries. An example of this is some of the collectives for drug users that we use for some child protection measures. They might have been ideal, but they don't belong to this category today. Therefore, there is a need for a new borderline between what is ideal and what are commercial actors, and we will do it. It's also not right, as Olemic Thommessen from the Right says, that we want to phase out private child protection measures. That's not right. We have had a decline in private child protection measures on the institutional side of 5 p.m., but if we look at the device as a whole, there has been a much greater use of private measures, because we have a transition to foster homes. So it's not like we're building a lot of public institutions at the expense of private people. We also want good, stable framework conditions for NPISHs. I believe that in this discussion we have much more in common with the ideological point of view of the interpellant - political point of view - about the best of the child than what emerged from the Right and Advance Party during this interpellant debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e294	The purpose of preventive family work is to help families live better together, to prevent problems with parental and child interactions and to prevent family resolution. Preventive family work also has positive effects on society, in both human and economic sense. Family protection is a low-threshold service. Clients can visit the family protection office without referral, and the offer is free of charge for both family care and mediation. As part of the prevention of family and locked-up conflicts between parents, it is particularly important that family protection develops further the outsourced information to the general public. Family protection must be able to communicate what is needed to make life and family life work, and what is necessary in relation to agreements and cooperation on children in the event of adultery or cohabitation. It is important to make visible that life’s problems are a common phenomenon and that help is available. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to have sufficient capacity for family protection, so that families who want it can get help in a timely manner. A number of family protection offices have a long waiting time for families who want help to deal with marriage, togetherness and parenthood. Visualisation of the competence of family protection contributes to increasing demand for services. At the same time, it is disappointing when demand cannot be met because of tight economy and too few additions. The goal of increasing the outsourced business also requires good capacity. Family protection is a small and well-functioning service that involves a large audience. As of 1 January 2007, family protection has been given new statutory tasks, such as mediation in the case of cohabitations with common children, without increasing resources. This makes the economic situation difficult. Leaders of family protection offices throughout the country express concern about the economic situation resulting from the current year’s budget. The Family Protection Offices Act contains two ‘shell tasks’ and one ‘harvest tasks’. Section 1 states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the ‘The family protection offices shall provide an offer for treatment and advice where difficulties, conflicts or crises exist in the family. Family protection offices are required to make mediation according to the marriage law § 26 and the Children's Act § 51. Family protection offices should also pursue out-of-court activities on family-related issues.» Family protection offices want to work preventively, but experience that prevention is losing ground against acute crises, and that ‘general life problems’ are not prioritised high enough from the Government’s side. As a result, waiting lists in family protection increase, and couples experience a rise in the level of conflict while they are waiting for help. It is also important to note that family therapy itself - both treatment and counselling - is also preventive in view of the fact that problems can develop further and end with life-breaks and problems for adults and children in the form of various mental problems, addiction, child protection, etc. The report by the Riksrevision, Document 3:6 for 2007-2008, which has recently been discussed in Stortinget, points out: ‘The further development of family protection was a central objective in the establishment of Bufetat. There has been no expansion of new family protection offices since 2004.’» Now I see that the government is opening up to establish a family protection offer on Svalbard, which is good. But we need more offices and more resources to keep the big business going. The economic situation for family protection has been marked by a number of years of under-coverage. Only for Southern Region, which is one of five family protection regions, it was necessary, due to a lack of financial allocation, to keep seven out of 57 therapists on leave in 2007 and the corresponding one in 2008. If the under-coverage continues, family protection must be permanently suspended in 2009. There are 387 years' worth of family protection. Figures from the SSB show that in 2006 these 45,700 cases were dealt with. In addition, there are a large number of couples and individuals who have shared a life course, parental training courses, ‘What with us?’ courses for parents with disabled children, communication courses, etc. An obliging parenthood and a good cooperation between parents even after a break in life are decisive for the growth of children. The Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen family protection by 10 million. kr for the current year, which would provide both room for increased client care and means of empowerment. It is important that Church Family Protection is provided with adequate means of professional development and empowerment to be specific to the diaconal family protection offices. The family protection service, which is a first-line service with a high level of competence, can indicate great activity, satisfied users and the effect of treatment. This is a significant preventive work for couples and families, and is particularly important for the growing-up conditions of the children in question. At the same time, the State, as responsible for the family protection service, has not followed up with the necessary financial allocation. Family protection is therefore faced with a situation where it is relevant to ask questions about the family protection service being subject to a targeted reduction. Family protection needs a substantial increase in the financial allocation in order to survive and provide for both treatment, counselling, mediation and outreach of preventive family work. I hope the Council of State understands the seriousness of the situation and will take action to ensure family protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e336	I fully agree with the representative of Molvær Grimstad that measures to prevent difficulties and conflicts in life and family are an important public task. In this area, we have a lot to gain from prevention. The option is to ‘repair’ once conflicts have developed. It is good social economy to provide a good professional offer to couples who want to resolve conflicts before they cause serious problems and suffering. That's good for the couple, and that's good for any kids. Most couples and families experience difficulties and conflicts from time to time. I think it's important to generalise this in general, not least by pointing out what couples themselves can do to strengthen society. A large survey conducted recently by the Nordic Institute of Gender Knowledge and the Institute for Research at the Nordic Institute for Gender and Labour has been carried out in the context of the process of the report on gender, roles and gender equality. This study confirms other research that also shows that similar practices in the home and family seem to contribute to more robust living. So if you're going to be concerned with traditional family values, it's equality that's often the way to strengthen your family today. The risk of a broken life is reduced when there is a good allocation of domestic labour. Parents who share the leave period have more children and have a lower divorce rate than in other families. It shows that a stronger community about the child and the parent role also strengthens the relationship between the couple. It contributes to prevention. I'm aware that family protection has challenges. In fact, the financial framework for the family protection offices has continued with a price and wage adjustment, but at the same time, as the interpellant was involved, family protection has been given more tasks. We are now in the process of a comprehensive review of the family protection service. In this respect, I would also like to assess whether the financial framework is adapted to the tasks of the service. Family protection is the only part of the auxiliaries that have the family as their main work area and couple treatment as a special field. The service is the root cause of family assistance in relation to life problems and conflicts in relationships. Family protection offers more than 30,000 couples and families a year. That's a lot of people. The main emphasis of client mass is couples seeking help in connection with life conflicts or crises. Many family protection offices are very busy, and the waiting time for hours is sometimes very long, as the interpellant was in. Nevertheless, the average waiting time for family counselling is 22 days. There are other places. But 22 days on average-- if we're going to look at that number, even though it's not adequate for that situation all encounters-- is an average that's not alarming compared to in a lot of other agencies. So overall, the situation is not as depressing as the representative claims, but it is also possible to do this better than today. Nor is it true when she claims that family protection mainly operates with mediation. Out of a total of 38 000 cases at the Family Protection Offices in 2006, there were 8 500 mediation cases. It's going to be 22 pst. of the cases. In other words, more than 3/4 of all family protection issues are counselling and treatment interviews with a view to improving the relationship with the couple or family situation. The annual report of the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family shows that mediation matters represent an increasing proportion of cases at the Family Protection Offices. This increase is mainly due to the conversion of the mediation mechanism from 1 January 2007. A mandatory mediation was introduced in the event of a break-in for cohabitants with children under 16 years of age. Nevertheless, the annual report shows that mediation work amounts to only 13 pst. of the time spent in family protection. 75 pst. the time is used for processing calls and approx. 10 pst. to outward activities. So to the interpellant's questions about what can be done so that family protection offices can work more preventively. I would like to state that the activities of the family protection offices in their business are preventive. Family protection is a low-threshold offer without referral procedures. It makes the help easily available. Family protection can and should also play an important role in improving parental cooperation after a breakup. This is also part of the prevention work. Research shows that persistent parental conflicts after a breakup are harmful to the children. An improved co-operation climate between parents could thus prevent emotional problems for the children who get in trouble between their parents. Divorce is therefore important, and it is preventive. The aim of mediation is to contribute to consensus and good agreements between parents on the issue of children. If the level of conflict can be reduced between parents, this may facilitate better cooperation between parents. The law provides for family protection offices to conduct out-of-court activities on family issues as well as counselling, treatment and mediation. However, this is not a statutory task. Most of the family protection offices run this anyway. Information activities, lectures, guidance and education aimed at the auxiliaries or the public may be involved. Let me conclude: I therefore believe that family protection is currently doing a good and far-reaching preventive work. We are now reviewing the tasks of family protection and, in this respect, also looking at the financial framework for family protection. I will come back to questions about any changes in the tasks of family protection and the resource situation when this review is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e368	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Yes, it is important to normalize the challenge in society, which was also the subject of the Council of State, and having discussions in the world about what to do on the gender front, is an important factor in having a good life. That's why the Christian People's Party is very busy, for example. increasing the Dad quota, fathers will have several weeks to keep up with their children when they become parents. At that point, we are excited when the government will bring more time to father, but there is another discussion. Equality is of course very important. I believe that one does not go beyond the financial framework of the family protection offices, because if we are to be given a call and treatment offer to several couples who want it, one must have more resources to operate it. In 2006, the protection of the family was reduced to approx. 24,000 new treatment cases, while the number of measles was 9,500. In 2007, it was about the same. 23,000 treatment cases, while the number of measles had increased to almost 13,000. This is the number from Bufetat. It goes without saying that when family protection has not been allocated more financial resources after the new tasks have been entered, a not as good work as one would like. And then there's a signal effect: when people know that there's a queue to come to the family protection office, it means that there's a part that thinks there's no point in reporting, because they've read in newspapers that there's a queue. So the real number of people who really want help, we don't know. But we know that many family protection offices have an intense desire to do preventive work, and I know that a family protection office in Molde specialises in the building of power, where they provide help in the form of therapy to people who have a chosen behavior and who have visited them for treatment that causes them to come out of a spiral of power, for example. It has ringing effects for a family again. And the fact that a person also wants to come out to further schools and youth schools and operate with a preventive course, can be involved in and prevent conflicts and increase knowledge about how to deal with a difficult situation. And then we know that some people get into a situation where a break in a life becomes the only reasonable solution. Then it's also important that a thing to deal with it in a good way, and it also has a little bit of an impact on the process that you've had in front of a break in your life. So given the importance of this for both small and large, it's very important that the attention to this topic is increased, as well as the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e377	I agree with the interpellant that family protection does a good job. It wants to expand its activities in many places, and we have to get back to these issues, because to a large extent it is about issues of a budgetary nature. However, many of the prevention measures taken are also for couples who have children for the first time and for couples who have children with disabilities. For these, there are now established courses, which many are satisfied with. I think a lot of the prevention work is in equality, and we know that among those who don't experience equality, the divorce rate is higher. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that the Government looked to the degrees criticised for the fact that we no longer use the term ‘Ministry of Children and Family’. Because I believe that one of the most important family policy measures we have is to strengthen cooperation between parents. As I said in my introduction: Traditional family policy and the prevention of divorce are about cooperation between parents. So that's what this government places on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e384	The interpellant points to the many tasks of family protection offices and their deprioritisation of prevention work. The Church's family protection marks its 50th anniversary these days, and the corresponding offer under the Directorate of Health was opened a year after the church. The need for the services provided by the family protection offices was already in demand in the 1950s. Family protection operates with treatment, counselling, mediation and out-of-court family work. After the cohabitation with children was ordered to mediation after a break in life, family protection has increased. This has led to longer queues in several places and to a reduction in prevention priorities in favour of mediation in the event of a breakup of life. Life crises, breakups and conflicts are part of the everyday lives of many people, and many people need help from family protection. Each year, more than 13 000 jobs are carried out in the 62 offices around the country. The fact that so many people use the service reminds us that there is a great need for advice and general prevention work. Preventive family work can cause fewer children to experience a break in life and strengthen the possibility of good parental cooperation after a breakup. Therefore, family protection should do more preventive work, not just mediation. Prevention in the family is necessary and important because it can prevent a breakup of life. Many families have good help with the services provided by the offices, and many receive help and advice that enables them to continue living together. It may be for the best for many, but it may also be that you can get guidance and help with a breakup. We know that children who experience a break in their lives are doing much better when their parents are able to cooperate. It is important that adults take into account the wishes of children and the best interests of their children. A conflict-affected life span affects children to a large extent, but there are plenty of institutions in municipalities working with prevention work in families. Most families have had problems for a long time when contacting the family protection office. It is largely in the first line service that prevention is done. I want to point out the trust I have in the health centre and the important work it does in this area. The health station is unique because it has such great confidence in the population. The vast majority of parents visit the health centre and have a fantastic starting point for good prevention as reaching large populations. The provision of maternity control in the health centre means that a person meets the family before birth, which in turn means that he has a good knowledge of and knowledge of the individual family and the starting point it has for living with children. The health centre has the best starting point for playing a significant role in prevention work in the municipality. The health centre conducts parental guidance and life courses, prenatal training and parental training. Several health centres have also started their own father groups because they have seen a need for this. Competence building and professional development within the health centre, school health station and health centre for young people are absolutely necessary to meet the major challenges facing them. Families and children and young people face new challenges to which they need help: violence, intoxication, sexual assault. And more and more children get diagnosis that stigmatizes them early. There are major challenges for families and their lives, and for those who work in the first-line service - new challenges and new issues that require increased skills. I believe it is important to strengthen the prevention work done at the health centre and in the first line service around the country. That's the task of the municipality. Health centres in several parts of the country have now expanded the offer, bringing together child protection, psychiatry and family measures at the health centre, under one roof. It gives a complete offer to the family. They have one place to deal with, and there they get the help they need. Early efforts are needed to prevent a break-up in which one still wants to live together, but I would like to stress some of the break-ups are absolutely necessary both for adults and children. I fully agree with the Council when she says that equality is important for a good life. Divorce statistics in this country peaked in 2004 and 2005. It sank in 2006 with a new government. It's still sinking. This government's equality policy and family policy are targeted and good, as in several other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e405	I will leave my temptation to comment on May Hansen's last remark, but I realize that in the pursuit of results after this government's work, one has now become so desperate that divorce statistics are being addressed. It is in these days approx. 50 years ago the start of the country's first family protection office. It was at Uranian Castle in Oslo. It was the Church's Family Protection Office that pioneered, and a few years later, the state followed and opened a test facility in Trondheim. Since then, we have had a two-track family protection, where the state and the church, ideal, have completed each other. There has been a good diversity in this offer. The signals we get from the sector itself are in many ways the starting point for this interpellation - that the grip is perceived as tightening, both in terms of family protection in general and in particular in terms of church family protection. Family protection offices are experiencing an economic downturn. They are entrusted with several tasks but do not receive equivalent appropriations. What they get does not even cover the development of wage and price levels, and there is also a lack of funds for professional development and development of skills to maintain the peculiarity of the church offering. At a time when the search for family protection offices is growing and we are getting more and more knowledge of children who are struggling because of breakup and family breakup, we should strengthen family protection rather than starve them. It also seems that there is an ideological skepticism under this government. In some other sectors, we see it quite unambiguously. Voluntary and ideal forces are pushed out. It was part of the previous interpellation debate. We also see it in the care of the russians, in the area of rehabilitation, and now there are also dangerous signals from the church and non-profit family offices. It's about a bureaucratic squabble. The Children's and Family Directorate fails to respond to a letter from the Church's Family Protection. There are undoubtedly forces in the bureaucracy that look at the church, ideal, part of the family protection closest to the rush in the machinery. If the Council of State does not stand up to this impression, insists on it and says that it stands for something else, the impression will quickly emerge that one has the attitude that the system is important, the diversity of the offer is less important - the diversity of the offer of help to those who need it in a difficult life situation is less important than having a streamlined unified system. I have seized the word here today -- perhaps not so common to me in such an interpellation debate -- because I have been very startled. I read in DagenMagazinet about a letter that the Council of State has written to the Church's Family Protection, where she considers the dialogue with them on these important questions to be concluded, without fulfilling their wish to have a discussion on this. It surprised me, for I know Anniken Huitfeldt as a person who is just seeking dialogue, and who is busy with it. It was even an important part of her message in the previous interpellation response today. So I have asked for the word here today to challenge the Council of State to say clearly whether she thinks it is important that we still have living two-track family protection in Norway, with the diversity that the Church's family protection represents, in addition to the public service, or whether she thinks it's just as good that it goes against a purely public service, where the Church's family protection is confused. And then I take it for granted that the Council of State of the United Kingdom can say that it is a misunderstanding that the dialogue with the Church's family protection on these issues has ended on the part of the department, and that she will initiate a further dialogue on what they have at heart, on the development of church family protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e418	It is important to focus on the prevention role of family protection, as this inter-pelling debate allows. I agree that family protection offices are doing less preventive work than they should have done. The scarce resource siting affects the activity in general. I know well the situation of my own home country, Rogaland, for the family protection offices in my district have documented how important work is being neglected today. It's not a problem that's only relevant in some big cities. At the family protection office in Egersund, which serves Dalane and Jären, the situation is that there may be up to two months waiting. Divorce mediation and breakup are important. Good association agreements and good cooperation between parents make the situation easier for the child or children. But one of the most important things for a child is that parents have it well as a couple. It is a pity, therefore, that family protection offices have become such an arena for divorce and not for preventive family protection. Many people probably think that people have a high threshold to seek professional help when the problems tower up in a couple relationship. But that's not right. Private offers to couples are quickly filled up, and as the interpellant noted: there is now a long queue in many of the family protection offices. I think it is very positive that the family protection offices have so much to do with couples who need someone to talk to. It shows that many couples have a desire to work with the relationship. Moreover, statistics now show that more people are married and fewer are divorced. It also says something about many people having a desire to live in a commitment to life. That's good, because stable family relationships are important for children. What's a shame is that family protection agencies have too little resources to help those seeking support. In many cases, it's the children it affects. We know that couples' therapy and couples' conversations help many people to solve life's problems. Therefore, it is important that family protection offices offer conversations for couples who need someone to talk to. For the Left, the welfare society is more than the state and local authorities provide services. Many voluntary communities represent a warmth and proximity that the public can or will never replace. The 20 or so church family protection offices are good examples of the fact that other than the public can offer important help to individuals. But the church family protection offices are currently in a fundamentally difficult situation because of resource scarcity. The left is concerned that everyone has a personal responsibility for himself, but also for his fellow human beings. No welfare Member State may replace it. I would therefore like to stress that it is not just the family protection offices that can be a support for couples or couples who have problems. Most of us have some kind of network: friends, parents, other family, colleagues, etc. I think it's interesting to raise the idea that we should all care a little bit more -- even if something as private as life problems. Maybe you don't need to be in line for months to talk to a therapist at the family protection office. By this I do not believe that the public should not offer family protection. For the Left, it is important to stress that private involvement goes hand in hand with the public support apparatus. I would like to conclude by repeating the importance of family protection offices and the need for resources to be made available to ensure that offices are able to give far greater priority to prevention than they currently have. I have noticed the Council of State's assurance that the resource situation will now be reviewed. I welcome the results of that review and the follow-up of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e441	I would like to thank you for the debate we have. I think this is a very important theme. We know that experiencing a break in a life can be very tough and demanding. We're all vulnerable when it comes to our private sphere. When we have to deal with the fact that life often gets a little bit different than what we had hoped and dreamed about, it's important that there's someone who cares, and that there's a place that can go to get professional help as well. We know that it's pretty tough for those in such a situation to experience that they have to wait for help - and they may not get as much help as they know they need. Therefore, it is very important to review this review that the Council of State now has, that one looks at the resources of family protection. One knows that users are very satisfied that there is a low-threshold offer. I actually think it's much easier to go to a family protection office today than it was a few years ago, and I think the threshold for talking about the problems has been lower than before. But it is very important that one gets enough resources, so that one can both prevent a break in life and help those who experience a break in life to deal with it in a constructive, good way. Not least for children, it is very important. Then it's important that we have a lack of family protection. We have a two-track family protection today. We know from Church history that most of the people are dedicated to church. And when the Church then felt that couples in joy were going to get married, one found out that one wanted to have a room where one could also meet the people in grief, not only in joy -- because we know that society gives both joy and challenges. That's why the Church wanted to start a family protection where one could help families when everyday life got tough. That history is important to bring with it further work. And we know, as Dagfinn Højbrätten was about, that it is a desire from the Church's family protection to take care of its own and its identity. I think it's important for us to take history into account that we're still ensuring a two-track family protection -- that one doesn't have to be anxious for the Church to operate with its own development of competence, and it needs to get more resources than it has today, for administration. For, shall it be the public who will be responsible for the lifting of competences, or shall we dare to let the shortage live? So far it's lived very well, and we want it to live in the future. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will go into it and try to get into a dialogue, so that the conclusion is not that Church Family Protection thinks that there is no point in running own family protection, but that a person can just as well go down - for the state will lead everyone in one direction, anyway. Let the lack live, and let's facilitate it instead of twisting it in. Thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e459	It was said by the representative Højbräten that non-governmental organisations are being pushed out. There is a claim that there is no evidence. Both within child protection and in other areas, in line with the Christian People's Party, we want a stronger distinction between what are commercial actors and what are ideal actors. The Christian People's Party has been concerned about this also in other matters in the Stortinget. We agree that such work should be undertaken so that non-profit institutions are not treated in the same way as commercial ones. It's been important to us. As far as the Church's family protection is concerned, they have a long history. They have also changed and meet families with open arms whether they are families that are ‘homophile’ or others. As I know the Church's family protection, they have a lot of care and little moralization. We have a good dialogue with the Church's Family Protection. And I would like to stress that we want two-track family protection, and we want to give private NPISHs as good framework conditions as public organisations. I am aware that the Church's family protection organization has had a desire to gather all church family protection offices in one foundation, under the Diakon home. There have been negotiations in the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate on the financial preconditions for this. The ministry has taken note - I have also done so - that the Diakon home in January 2008 chose to withdraw from further negotiations with Bufdir. However, regardless of the form of organisation, the Church Family Protection Offices will continue to be fully financed by the State. I thank you for this discussion. Finally, I would also like to refer to a notice that appeared in our country last week, which shows that Norwegian parents are spending more and more time with their children. We are constantly getting the impression that everyone is giving priority to work, and that the children are down priorities, but in Norway we have managed to create a system where it is possible to combine work and care for children. I think that is for the benefit of the families, and I think it is also a good, preventive family protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e470	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-04.ana.ud1582e483	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
