ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e55	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee of the Labour Party Laila Kaland is dead. She was 68 years old. Laila Kaland represented More and Romesdal on the Stortinget for four periods, i.e. for more than 16 years. During this period she was part of four different clusters: the Church and Education Committee, the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, the Financial Committee and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. In civil, Laila Kaland was a nurse, and she was a nurse in the municipality of Sykkylven when she was first elected to the Stortinget in 1985. However, she met several times as an alternate in the period 1981-85. We remember Laila Kaland as a politician with a burning commitment and with great work capacity. This must be done when it comes to the role of national politicians, local politicians, professional women, housewives, mothers, and spouses. She was particularly concerned about caring for particularly weak groups. She was first in the fight for women's real equality with men. Equator was a word Laila Kaland would like to use. Everyone who knew her will remember her earthly attitude to life and her ability to empathize. She is constantly connecting new contacts with people from different walks of life. Laila Kaland was also very engaged in the region where she lived. She burned for all things that could secure the future of the community. She was a member of the Sykkylven municipal government for many years and was in Møre and Romsdal county from 1979 to 1985. She had a wide range of public and political responsibilities. For several years she was a member and leader of the Moor and Romsdal Workers' Party and was a member of the party's national government from 1981 to 1985. Laila Kaland was a very specific woman and was often very direct to the pulpit. She called a spade a spade. We remember her as a colorful person with a contagious mood and a very audible laugh. In fact, if we couldn't always see Laila Kaland, we could always hear her. Unfortunately, she became seriously ill the last time she lived. She broke, but was brave and power to show care for others until the last. We thank Laila Kaland for a long working day for the party and society. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e80	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Borghild Tenden on welfare leave from 11 February to 16 February from the representative of Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on leave from 11 February to 16 February in order to take part in a study trip to the United States on American policies and societies On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Inge Hallgeir SolliFor Østfold County: John ThuneJohn Thune is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets for the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e133	The government's policy in much of that maritime area has so far been marked by paradoxes and contradictions in what you say and promise, and what you do and, above all, don't do. Therefore, the heading ‘Supporting policy’ of the strategic effort appears to be low-chosen compared to the overall impact of the exercise of policy so far. The document referred to with a relatively modest amount for research, development and build-up of competences, but more unscathed in the rhetoric, illustrates well the background to this interpellation. Finally, after spending too much time last autumn, the Government came forward with the proposal for a new tax system for the shipping industry. As expected, shipping was given the same framework conditions as its European competitors. However, what was totally unexpected, unwarranted and unforeseeable was that the government detonated a tax bomb under the maritime industries in the form of a retroactive tax burden of NOK 21 billion. You gave with one hand and took back in diversity with the other. Large parts of the equity of many companies were converted overnight from equity to a debt liability. The share of equity in the companies has fallen dramatically, and it is estimated that the ability to invest may be impaired by up to NOK 70 billion, if the bank's 20 pst requirement is imposed. equity for initial investments to land. Such sudden changes in framework conditions have a major impact on the ability of shipping companies to invest and have major ring-fenced effects in the maritime cluster. The latter creates great concerns around the country. A year ago, I visited the ship design company Vik-Sandvik at Fitjar. There the manager and founder could tell an impressive story of how an adventure of an architectural society had become, how they could grow and grow and beat through internationally from a little nest in the West, as we see it with the island's islands. The key words were about the Norwegian maritime cluster, it was about the dependence and proximity of shipping companies operated from Norway, it was about predictable framework conditions, and it was not least about skilled labour who prided themselves on the framework conditions for the cluster providing secure jobs that would enable us to build and live in Utkant-Norway. The last message from this company is that at least five projects in question have been stopped. The reasons given by the customers are all the Government's proposals for a new company tax scheme, or more precisely: the requirement for repayment of the credits. Not least for short sea shipping, such changes to the framework conditions are serious. Short sea shipping is facing major renewals, it is an old fleet due to the weak capital strength of the shipping companies, and the tax proposal makes this part of the industry even more vulnerable and weaker in relation to competition. The most serious thing about the law on transitional arrangements, in addition to the economic one, is, of course, the unexplained relationship with the Constitution. Three called experts expressed strong doubts during the consultation of the Financial Committee about whether the legislative proposal provided an adequate analysis of the impact on industry. They also indicated that predictability needs to be considered in terms of weight when assessing the relationship with the Constitution. It was emphasised that the proposal, which involves a new regime, is irrelevant when assessing the transitional arrangements themselves in relation to the constitution. The management of this business towards the industry I see as highly critical and very little suitable as a predictable framework condition and not least as an example of a good dialogue with the industry. There is every reason to believe that the outcome will be a legal process between some actors and the state. It is unfortunate, and it is not easy to claim that an active and forward-looking policy is pursued when significant parts of the same policy end up in legal proceedings between industry and the authorities. There may be grounds for doubting whether, in such a situation, the Government may be able to pursue a sufficiently objective policy towards an industry, while at the same time dealing with a significant legal dispute. Just this dilemma has been spectacularly illustrated by the member of the Financial Committee Marianne Aasen Agdestein of the Workers' Party, who, to the BT for some time, says that the shipping industry can expect negative sanctions if the possibility of a judicial review is used in relation to the Constitution. These are unheard-of statements if you want to cooperate with business. If it is representative of the position in the Government, the Government Council and the Ministry have a significant potential for improvement in objectivity. In the best times ever for Norwegian business, the Odfjell company delivered large negative figures due to the costing of tax credits two days ago. This has to do with taking the third part of the environment as a cost and a liability. The background is very unclear in this area, as the transitional rules already apply to 2007 and the accounting understanding itself is not clarified. This is not in line with, among others. the Minister of Industry's statement that the last third should be equity. Equity is definitely not in Odberg, where it is now on the liabilities side of the balance sheet. It would be useful if the Minister of Industry could perhaps today confirm to the Storting his previous statements that the environmental third part should be equity - and from day one, not from the time when the investments were made. In the same way as for the shipping tax system, the Government in the case of the NOx tax has in many ways left its feet behind and spent a long time clarifying the important framework conditions. A fund solution has now been put in place for the industry, which involves a lower tax burden than the original one, but the government has not found it possible to contribute financially to the scheme. The labour shortage is the main problem in the Norwegian economy at the moment. It is very noticeable macro-economically and also down in industries and individual industries, not least within the maritime sector. One of the best examples is the recruitment situation in the fishing industry. There are today major problems in obtaining both skilled and unskilled fishermen. There is, of course, a connection with weaker earnings in this part of the maritime industries than in higher-performance shipping industries. No bad word about high earnings from my side, but the combination of competition for labour with high-performance enterprises and subsidised jobs is, of course, extremely demanding for the fishing fleet. It may be a distortion of competition that can be dealt with in times of better access to labour, but at the same time, when you see that the government is quite absent from action to get more people to work, this is a concern. It is a fact and yet another paradox that in 2008 the government budget for grants for employment of seafarers will go up to NOK 2 billion. A good part of this amount may be considered as distorting subsidies. The right has also been in this scheme and is still in its budgets in its model of competence, but with the developments we have seen in the amounts and in the labour market situation, I might have expected the Government and the Minister of Industry to gradually have an idea of whether this is now as focused as it was in the past. The problems in fisheries and the fishing fleet have also been identified to the right for its part and have, inter alia, been identified. proposed increases in the fishing deduction in order to try to remedy the situation, which must now be obvious to all those who are aware of this industry. Another paradox of the Government’s policy is that, while it sings its individual strategies, the general framework conditions are exacerbated. Thousands of enterprises in Norway, including in the maritime industries, note that the wealth tax and the private ownership tax so far under this Government has increased by billions. In this article, I have tried to break up examples and areas where my fundamental question in the debate has been illustrated: what the Minister of Industry will do in the maritime area to bring about better consistency between the policies, rhetoric and the promises of predictability, stability and economic dialogue. I want to add finally that the world around us is also considering this. Norway rarely receives notices in newspapers such as the Financial Times and The Economist, but the tax arrangements for shipping companies have been mentioned in negative form. It creates a bad reputation, because this is an industry that is international, that has international actors, international investors. I look forward to hearing from the Council of State how he thinks about both this and the other things I've taken up, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e168	The interpellant has raised questions that give me a good opportunity to present the Government's offensive bet on the maritime industries. The Soria Moria Declaration, which is the Government’s political platform, states that the Government will ‘develop national strategies in the fields of competence or special benefit such as the marine sector, maritime sector, energy, environment and travel’. This is the government now well in the process of following up. On 3 October 2007, the Government presented a maritime strategy entitled ‘Should course’. We just did so to ensure that Norway remains one of the world’s leading maritime nations. The strategy comprises a total of 54 activities which are divided into the following areas: globalisation and framework conditions; environmentally friendly maritime industries; maritime competence; maritime research and innovation; and short sea shipping. Let me first say a few words about the introduction of the new shipping tax system. If Norway continues to compete in international competition in shipping, we must ensure good conditions for industry in Norway. That is why we have introduced a new shipping tax scheme according to the European model. It is necessary for new shipping companies to establish themselves in Norway and for existing shipping companies to continue their business here to land. I would like to stress that the scheme is competitive in relation to similar schemes in other European countries in terms of both the legislation and the level of tonnage tax. I am pleased that a total accumulation has joined the scheme. In doing so, the shipowners have received the tax arrangements they have requested and the scheme will be stable, predictable and competitive. The conversion of the tax regime also implies that companies must pay up part of the tax credits from the old scheme on a fee or contract basis. Tax credits will be determined on the basis of book values, with a payment over 10 years without interest charge. In addition, shipping companies may allocate one third of the tax credit to an environmental fund. I am pleased that we are now implementing an environmental measure that will support under the company's own vision of zero emissions. Ideally, we had seen that there was no international tax competition. But as long as the tax competition is there, our shipping companies will have the same competitive conditions as in other countries. I would therefore like to stress that the Government will continue its efforts to combat subsidies and tax competition in international bodies such as the OECD and the WTO. We have already made proposals to build up support schemes for ferries between EEA countries. We will also address the issue of subsidy and tax competition between EEA countries through Norwegian involvement in the design of an EU strategy for shipping 2008-2018. Let me answer the second challenge that interpellant specifically addresses. I am very pleased that the Ministry of the Environment has reached an agreement with the trade organisations, including the shipping organisations - the Shipowners' Association, the Norwegian Shipowners' Association, the Shipowners' Association and the Shipowners' Association - on an agreement that will contribute to a reduction in annual NOx emissions by about 31,000 tonnes. The agreement shall ensure that Norway complies with the requirement of the Gothenburg Protocol to reduce annual NOx emissions to 156 000 tonnes. The agreement is valid for 2008, 2009 and 2010 and has to be approved by ESA. Undertakings that sign up to the agreement do not pay NOx fees for these years, but will instead be required to pay into business NOx funds. The Fund shall grant grants to activities implementing cost-effective NOx measures. The agreement will contribute to more environmentally friendly shipping. I am not in doubt that it will mean a breakthrough for the use of NOx reducing technologies, which, on its part, can in turn stimulate the development of Norwegian environmental technologies. The agreement is therefore good for the environment, good for the industries that emit NOx, and good for equipment manufacturers. In addition, it is in accordance with the wishes of Stortinget. Let me also say something about some of the other bet areas of the maritime strategy. Maritime competence is one of these. With the maritime strategy, the Government will contribute to increased recruitment and empowerment. We must have Norwegian seafarers on board Norwegian ships if we are to retain valuable competence in the maritime industries. Therefore, the Government has improved the subsidy schemes for Norwegian seafarers and increased the appropriations from 1097 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 1710 million. kr in 2008. This is an essential contribution to securing jobs for about 10,000 Norwegian seafarers. Overall, this shows that the Government follows up the Soria Moria Declaration, and has the will and ability to bet on shipping and the maritime industries. Several of the opposition parties, including the party to the interpellant, have made proposals in their alternative budgets that will reduce the net pay regime and thus the bet on Norwegian seafarers. With the exception of the Progress Party, the opposition parties have also used in their budgets part of the tax credits from the previous Company Tax Scheme. The Government will also continue the Competence Fund established under the net pay scheme. The Fund provides funding for measures to increase and recruit Norwegian seafarers, primarily for on-board training places. The scheme has been very successful. In addition, 252 million have been allocated to the State budget for 2008. kr to actions in the Maritime Strategy for Research, Innovation and Competence Actions. That's an increase of 100 million. kr from 2007. So to another bet area. International shipping has major environmental challenges. Increased demand for transport services will, with today's technology, challenge the framework for sustainable development. The government's objective is that the Norwegian maritime industries should be the most environmentally friendly in the world and take the lead in the development of new solutions. Strict international rules are central. We will therefore continue the driving role of Norway in the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, and in particular. further work on proposals for a global requirement for distillates for shipping, ballast water, ship recycling and other key environmental challenges. The government believes it is important to speed up efforts to limit climate emissions from shipping internationally. We have therefore taken the initiative and offered the hosting function for an extraordinary meeting of the IMO Environment Committee for that purpose in the current year. Developing environmentally friendly solutions will be the competitive advantage of the future. Through targeted innovation, the Norwegian maritime industries have all the prerequisites for becoming both the most profitable and the most environmentally friendly in the world. Increased support through Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Councils shall, in particular, contribute to more environmentally friendly shipping through the prioritisation of marine environmental technologies. The government has therefore set aside 25 million. kr to upgrade the marine research infrastructure of Marintek. The government’s maritime strategy is now being followed up in different contexts, including in documents to the Stortinget. A State Secretary's own committee has been set up to follow up the actions of the Maritime Strategy. We will also continue the very fruitful dialogue we have had with the maritime industries in the design of the strategy, among others. within the framework of the MARUT Cooperation Body. With the proposed strategy, the Government facilitates the growth and development of the Norwegian maritime industries. Therefore, ‘Should course’ is the correct name. With the widespread closure of the measure, the shipping industry in Norway has never had more predictable framework conditions than it has at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e227	I thank you for the Government's response, which is as expected, and which goes along the lines you know for the strategies the Government has put up. But there are no industries that can live by the Government's strategies. Profitability, markets and framework conditions must be in place. I don't know how many times I've heard the council say that the industry has got what the tax authorities it's asked for. That is quite correct, but it has hardly asked for 21 billion kroner in additional tax burden, which causes significant problems. I would like to repeat a few questions that I asked first. Firstly, what will the Council of State do - and this is the most important thing - with the regulations on the indebtedness of the environmental part of the latent tax that is returned? There the Council of State has made it clear that this should be equity. Does the Council of State mean that there should be equity from day one? It's not like that right now. That's not how Odberg's accountants consider it. They're putting everything on the debt side. This is what other shipping companies are going to do. Can the Council of State guarantee that this will happen, and not that after ten years you can say that you have used this? That's the one. The second point that I would like to challenge the Council of State is whether he can disclaim what has been said by position politicians that if the shipping industry does not put down its weapons - if you can use that expression - in trying to legitimize the shipping tax proposal in the Supreme Court, you will go into sanctions, which is the expression that has been used. I would like him to confirm that this is not the case, and at the same time perhaps assure us that the dialogue with the industry, the industry, on his part, will be totally unaffected by what individual operators in the shipping industry had to decide to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e240	As a member of the Financial Committee, Svein Flecht, who knows very well, the formal answer is, when he asks what I want to do with the tax regulations, that it is the Ministry of Finance that provides them. But the answer to the reality of the 21 billion question is that one third of them can be invested in environmental measures and that the third can be accounted for as equity. I say that because, although I am not presenting the matter, I put together with the Minister of Finance at the press conference on the day the scheme was announced, and she has underlined it all the way. The political decision is that it should be possible to hold equity and, of course, the laws and regulations should be adapted by the professionals who design it. Our opinion is that this is what has now been presented, also in the regulations that are now being consulted. Of course, we take into account the input that comes at the hearing related to it. But it's clear that one-third should be able to be equity. So the question of the future shipping tax system in case of legal proceedings. It is enough to refer to what is the Government’s proposal for the Storing and the Storing decision in the consideration of the future tax system. No such reservations have been made. I record that the representative Fleet wants to interpret something that one of his colleagues in the Financial Committee has expressed. But unlike the representative Fleet, I do not want to misunderstand that representative. I have spoken to the representative about what has been said, and what has been said is written in the Official Journal of Bergen. There is no doubt that the proposals put forward by the Government and the decisions taken by the Storting provide no basis for the future tax system to depend on whether it does not become or become legal. Furthermore, in our opinion, it is clear that the basis for the decisions is not contrary to the Basic Law § 97. That is why, in our opinion, it will never be a relevant issue. But it must be a dilemma for the representative Fleet that while standing here and talking as if it were wrong for the deferred tax to be partially repaid, the Right simultaneously operates revenues and the income manager in his own draft government budget on the same tax basis. Here, in fact, it's just the Progress Party that has taken the consequences of what they're saying, and let's not get any income. It must be based on that double morality is better than no morality. I absolutely disagree with that. It falls on its own unfairness when asked questions by the Constitution, and at the same time the revenues are used. It's not on your fingertips.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e249	I agree with the interpellant that from time to time there may be every reason to discuss the framework conditions of the maritime industries. In this respect, I would like to return to the entry of this government, i.e. back to 2005. Then we had a situation in which the former government, the Bondevik government, launched a proposal in Stortinget to remove the net pay regime for the seafarers, which in industry was perceived as a serious threat to the industry and employment of Norwegian seafarers. Among other things, Color Line threatened at the time to move its business from Norway to Denmark and Sweden, which had a net pay scheme. When the new government came and maintained the net pay system, Color Line replied to invest $7 billion in a brand new holiday concept that we're going to see this spring's results in ferry traffic between Norway and the continent. Then the new super ferries are put into operation, and you're actually in the process of revolutionizing this whole ferry ride. Achieving what is a European objective is to create new motorways of the sea. I therefore find it interesting when the interpellant shows that the industry is again threatening to fly out due to lower tax conditions, that the interpellant uses about the same argument that the majority of the Shipowners' Committee in its time used - quite rightly, with a different conclusion from that of the interpellant - that the labour force in the maritime industry was too low in terms of wages in other industries, and therefore should be channelled from the maritime industries into more profitable industries. The Rederiskatte Committee now considered that the shipping industry did not yield any particular benefit to the Norwegian community, compared to other industries. But in this respect, I would like to point out that, according to the tasks of the Swedish Shipowners' Federation, turnover in Norwegian shipping is now running up to a total of NOK 118 billion. The industry employs more people in total – and then I think only of shipping – 31,000 people. So the next after oil and gas is actually shipping one of our most important export industries. I have good faith that it will continue as well, now that the industry has actually got Europe's best tax regime. I am of the opinion that if you don't have Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian ships, you won't be able to maintain the maritime cluster that totals around 90,000 people. I have poor faith that the tax credit scheme that we have had and that results in the industry having to repay two thirds of the tax credits previously granted will have a special impact on the future of this industry. I think the maritime industries and shipping will continue to evolve well and rationally, because this is an extremely profitable industry. When shipping is profitable, shipowners will continue to do so from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e260	Norwegian shipping may not only live by empty words; there must also be action behind the words being launched. I feel that there is little gap between what is being said and what is being done. It's pretty obvious that if we're going to be happy in the future, even when the oil age goes to the end, we're forced to bet on the industries where we have competence, and where we also have naturalized pretensions or, if you want, a special advantage. Norwegian shipping is one of the industries in which we have great competence, and where we also have natural resources, because of the long coastline we have. Norwegian shipping has been a bearboard in the Norwegian economy for hundreds of years. Norwegian shipping has sailed in precious currency to the country at a time when we needed it most, and has very good jobs at a time when we needed it most. Norwegian shipping has also been an important industry for District Norway and for district construction. If we do this, we can ensure that Norwegian shipping can also be an important industry for Norway for hundreds of years to come. But of course, it has been suggested that we have stable, far-reaching and internationally competitive framework conditions – and this is where it fails a little. One has named the unconstitutional tax sniper - eleven years back in time - of 21 billion kroner. There's no bad course, there's no good starting point. We also have the NOx fee, which is mentioned. In addition, we have wealth taxes, which are now developing into a strange special tax, because most countries around us have removed this tax, or are about to remove it. This means that Norwegian owners are forced to deduct capital from companies in order to pay taxes on wealth, whereas foreign owners thus refrain from deducting capital from companies in order to pay taxes on wealth. This, of course, leads to a lack of competition, which can have major consequences in the short term. We've seen over time that we've been flagged out. We've seen that this industry, shipping, is not growing all over Norway, while it is growing in countries that have made the conditions better for it. And of course, it's not the riders that have reason to see sin, because they'll make at least the same amount of money if they flag out. What this is all about is the Norwegian economy, the Norwegian jobs, and the purpose of ensuring an industry in Norway for the future, even in time after the oil age ends, so that we can both sail in currency and secure tax receipts and Norwegian jobs. I'm afraid the industry doesn't get the framework conditions it needs here. I'm afraid the words that come from the Minister of Industry and the Government are not followed up with action in time. This will lead to a downward trend in Norwegian shipping. But, as I said, the riders will of course appear to be great with a demonstration to flag out, because they can spend even more money. In addition to lower taxes, one in many of the countries to which you can flag out will, of course, also have lower labour costs - when it comes to maintaining riding offices, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e280	If there is some industry that really wants to create safe jobs and a forward-looking business throughout Norway, it is the maritime cluster with its 100,000 employees and its 100 billion kroner in turnover. Shipping goes in the same division as the oil and gas industry, the fishing industry and the travel industry. The maritime industry is perhaps one of the five industries with the greatest need for predictable and competitive framework conditions. The reasons should be clear, also to the Minister of Industry, that investments in ships are very capital-intensive, very long-term and can be made from anywhere in the world. This obvious need for reliable framework conditions combined with the Government’s promises of an active industrial policy and that the maritime sector should be a so-called key industry should ensure that this industry had good days with this government. The reality is unfortunately the opposite. Let me take an example from my own hometown. The results of the Odfjell group were mentioned in Bergen's Official Journal yesterday and were as follows: Turnover increased sharply from 1.1 to 1.2 billion dollars. The result increased nicely from 115 to 143 million dollars. However, post-tax results go completely in the cellar, from 116 million plus in 2006 to a deficit of 10 million in 2007. So the company is getting all the results for 2007 because we have a government and a Minister of Industry completely without the ability to keep their own promises, and that exposes this so-called strategic industry to retroactive taxation. It is not difficult to understand that people in this industry refer to Norway as a fiscal banana republic and that this attracts significant negative international attention. The government’s tax claim came as a shock to everyone in the industry who was naive enough to rely on decisions taken in the Stortingen in 1996, on a new shipping tax scheme. The shock effects are obvious, as all of those affected by this, would, of course, have located their business in more predictable countries if they had understood the risk. Now it is true that those who flagged out in the 1990s, early in the 2000s and until today, have saved huge amounts and can laugh all the way to the bank, while those who pride themselves on Norwegian authorities, those who invested in Norwegian jobs, and those who invested in Norwegian technology, receive a tax withdrawal of at least DKK 14 billion. The reality of this case is reinforced by the fact that many of these companies had saved large amounts of money to be subject to ordinary company taxation rather than to the Norwegian shipping tax system. The proposal is likely to contravene the Constitutional Law’s prohibition of legislative changes with retroactive effect, and many shipping companies are now considering actions. There has not been a single independent lawyer, as far as I can see, who has benefited from the Government's assessments of the legality of this refund. So in this situation, we have the Minister of Industry, who called in on 3 October to the press conference to present the Ministry of Industry's maritime strategy. The title "Staying Course" is so comical in this situation that it was supposed to be made by people in the entertainment industry. However, the content of this message deserves a short review. The government's adding 100 million. kr more for maritime research. It is absolutely excellent, but nevertheless de minimis in relation to the tax austerity of SEK 1.4 billion per year. The government then presents a new shipping tax system which is alleged to be applicable to the future and which is competitive with the EU. The Minister of Industry tries to market this as predictable, stable framework conditions and asks people to forget the story, forget about the betrayal of trust that has been in relation to the previous regime. As usual, he does not have coverage for his promises. The Labour Party member of the Financial Committee, Marianne Aasen Agdestein, who was the rapporteur for the new Company Tax Scheme, stated to the Official Journal of Bergen on 17 January this year that if the shipping industry wins its tax claim against the Government, the Government will probably find a new deposit for lost proceeds by cutting into the new Company Tax Scheme applicable from 2008 and which will then be the future foreseeable framework conditions. So, given that the government is most likely to lose this trial, the new shipping tax system is on the clay ground, and we can risk being tightened up in it in two or three years as a result of a loss of justice. In addition, there is still a lot of blue about the environmental part of this $7 billion scheme that can actually be accounted for as equity, or whether it becomes a tax bill. Unfortunately, we have to note that the Government has squandered the possibility of pursuing a good shipping policy during this period. The signals from the Workers' Party show that the future scheme is also uncertain. I believe that the only solution for the maritime industry now must be that we have a government shift in 2009 - a government that can lead a better maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e308	The maritime industry has a total value creation of $81 billion and is one of our most important industries. The riding and rigging industry represents almost half of the industry’s value creation, and the shipping industry is Norway’s largest export industry for oil and gas. Measured in deadweight tonnes, the Norwegian controlled tonnage was the fifth largest in the world per year. 1 January 2007. Measured in value creation, the marine equipment industry is the second most important industry in the maritime cluster. She produces everything from engines to furniture. We have leading maritime service providers in the areas of ship financing, insurance and classification. Norway has shipbuilding traditions that extend back to important times and are currently concentrated on offshore ships, small specialised ships, fishing boats and passenger ferries. The maritime industry also has an important link with the petroleum industry, fisheries and travel. So when the government says she's going to bet on the maritime industry, she's got the Christian People's Party's full support. The problem is that the distance between the government's rhetoric and practice is quite large in the maritime area, because the government's maritime strategy from 2007 contains many words, but actually little action. The strategy document is called ‘Should course’ and has illustratively enough a front page with a ship that looks like it's trying to cross land. The strategy was presented approximately at the same time as fleet layers were presented without notice with a tax charge of DKK 14 billion. With eleven years back, there are, as already has our air, many specialists who claim that this is contrary to the Constitution. The government has also not done enough to improve the overall tax environment for the rest of the maritime industry. The property tax, e.g., which must be paid regardless of whether or not the company has a surplus. The property tax actually weakens private, active ownership and loses family businesses for capital. No other European country taxes food wealth as high as Norway. The inheritance fee of a generation change in family businesses is another thing. Neither does the government have the priority to address, despite the fact that removing this levy is a good business policy, a good social economy and a good rural policy. Distributions from the European Commission show that successful ownership shifts in small enterprises lead to the continuation of five jobs on average. The European Commission has therefore provided clear advice to all Member States to have an active policy on change of ownership. It's important for employment and value creation. It doesn't cost that much to do anything about it either. By committing to a profit of 150 million. Annually, the Government may remove the inheritance fee for family-owned enterprises. Then we have the NOx charge. It took a long time. In the new year, an agreement was reached with the industries. It's good, but it happened legally late. The Christian People's Party wants a more entrepreneurial policy, both for the maritime industry and for business in general. We proposed in our alternative budget in the fall to add 75 pst. by what the Government requires from fleet laws, become equity that can be used for environmental measures. Then one would probably have been able to establish a scheme that the industry could have accepted, and that had not given rise to the severe weakening of investment assets that we now see. Secondly, yesterday's Christian People's Party is tabling a proposal to abolish property taxes on working capital. This will strengthen private Norwegian ownership, and it will promote value creation and innovation. We hope that the initiative from a comprehensive Norwegian business community, through the private Norwegian ownership alliance, will be taken seriously by the Government. In the submission, the Christian People's Party proposes that property taxes on working capital be removed from 1 January 2009. We have also advised, in the right and left layers, that in case of a generation change in family businesses, the inheritance fee should be eliminated if the next generation continues the business for at least 10 years. When we know that over the next ten years, 40,000 Norwegian companies are ahead of owner change or generation change, the government should also be busy with this. We also want to facilitate the strengthening of research and development. We think that for this cluster of industries, the capacity of the national road ferries needs to increase, and we need to get more frequent and more predictable departures, without delays, queues and re-sitting. This means a lot. In this way, we will be able to increase the basis for value creation, secure jobs and provide more well-being along the coast. This is what we hope the Government will do, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e337	The maritime sector represents an industry that we in Norway will live on in the future. It is important that we, as a nation, set up so that employment takes place before the industries in which we have a high level of competence and good intentions for future growth. This is where shipping is in a special position. I am therefore pleased that the Government has put forward such a good maritime strategy. Those in the nutrition committee have visited many maritime companies in several parts of the country, and the knowledge and competence of a Finn there are impressive. Many maritime companies represent the deepest competence in the world in their fields. The maritime cluster on Sunnmøre is a good example of the interaction between seafarers, riders, equipment manufacturers and shipyards. In the Labour Party, we are busy securing the future of maritime industries. Norway is a high-cost country. Therefore, we need to focus on being better than others; we need to invest in further developing our special skills. We must be first in technological development, and we must be adaptable. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have said that we must focus on the industries we will live on in the future. Maritime nutrition is one of these. With all the good measures outlined in the maritime strategy, this is followed up by concrete actions. We are working to secure the employment of Norwegian seafarers. It is necessary to ensure the competence of Norwegian maritime industries, and it is important to preserve Norway as a leading maritime nation. The net pay system for seafarers is an important tool for the further development of maritime competence and recruitment of Norwegian seafarers. It's strange, I thought, that one in the Right is so unlikely to be negative to this system. The scheme also suggests that Norwegian shipping companies have a competitive environment in relation to that of a Finn in other countries, which I also thought Right was a matter of concern. As a result, we provide seafarers with stable framework conditions and ensure stability for Norwegian shipping and growth in the maritime industries. And as we heard earlier, when we introduced the extension of the net pay scheme, this led to large investments in shipping in Norway. For this reason, I am very pleased that we have now put in place the reindeer tax and got what we have wanted all along: that we should have the same framework here as in the rest of Europe. I'm actually wondering what Right did in the previous period, when they put in government, to secure the maritime industries. In my opinion, shipping is one of our most important district industries, with corner stone businesses and employment throughout the country. Maritime industries are also of great importance to Norwegian banks, insurance companies and ICT companies that establish leading international positions in markets where Norwegian fleets are strong. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that invests in the shipping industry, for Norway needs shipping. The MARUT initiative is an example of the steps taken by the Government to invest in maritime industries. There is close cooperation between authorities, businesses and the knowledge environment. When you hear the interpellant and the Right, they talk as if the Government didn't bet on research. It's completely wrong. The commitment to research and innovation is crucial for us to be able to keep abreast of the development of high-tech and environmentally friendly solutions, which will also give the industry a competitive edge in the future. For several years, the government budget has strengthened the tools we have for maritime research and innovation. Let me end by saying that, after the Workers' Party's opinion, we have a common task of ensuring that shipping and the maritime industry are still contributing to life and settlement in Coast Norway. We have to take care of and further develop our competence in the industry, because this competence is actually one of our most important competitive advantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e365	The interpellant raises important questions, because the maritime sector is a business area in which Norway has leading competence and special advantage. The debate is partly about the economic framework conditions for the further development of the Norwegian maritime cluster. It has illuminated the interpellant in its article. Professor Torger Reve of the BI School of Commerce believes that the petromaritime cluster is so strong that it can develop into our only so-called international hub in competition with a few other maritime centers in the world. The strength has several reasons. Over generations we have built competence at sea as well as in support functions and the suppliers industry on land. Operation has been good, and a culture has been developed in which profits have largely been converted into new developments. It has led us to leading positions in a tough international competition. The question is whether we can still raise ourselves in the maritime sector, as high-cost countries and with ever-new low-cost competitors on the track - not to say at sea. The answer is already given, because we have fresh examples of Norwegian companies and Norwegian professionals being in the lead when we are innovative and based on what we already know. Climate and environmental requirements are an increasing and dominant challenge in most areas. In the maritime sector, too, innovative, environmentally friendly solutions could become a key pillar which could carry a leading shipping nation on. It's my business in this post. First some numbers: 40 pst. the NOx release in Norway comes from the coastal, offshore and fishing fleet. According to the Gothenburg Agreement, Norway is obliged to reduce NOx emissions by 30 pst. by 2010. It is reported that Norway emits approx. 50 million. tonnes of CO2 annually, but the world's total fleet emits approx. 1 billion tonnes of CO2. The reduction potential is therefore enormous. The specific NOx charge is one of the measures that you can choose to reduce the emissions. The fee in its present form is discussed, and I'm not going into it now. A more sustainable solution is to achieve a real reduction in emissions themselves. It can be achieved today whether or not a boat converts its consumption of diesel into natural gas. Then the NOx emission is reduced by 90 pst, while at the same time a side gain by 23 pst. reduction of CO2 emissions. And then you can argue that it's easier to put catalysts on today's diesel engines. Then a 60 pst removes. the NOx emission, but the side effect is that fuel consumption is increasing, thereby also increasing CO2 emissions by 20 pst. Another objection we sometimes hear is that we have too few gas filling stations, but there were not many gas filling stations before the cars started rolling. Some Norwegian offshore shipping companies have already invested in the new development of natural gas fuelled ships. Eidesvik on Bømlo is such an example. Unfortunately, however, the operators, the oil companies, continue to demand ships with traditional and old-fashioned technology, with the continued pollution caused by the emissions. This also applies to StatoilHydro, where the state, by virtue of its ownership, should see it as particularly topical. The potential for significantly reduced emissions of new shipping technologies coincides with an increasing need for replacement and modernisation of Norwegian short sea shipping in general. The coastal fleet is old. The Shipowners’ Association has 240 member vessels with an average age of almost 30 years and foresees significant new construction activities in the coming years. It will be further reinforced if we want to achieve the objective of transferring more freight from land to sea. I am familiar with the R & D project «New Freight», where the Norwegian Research Council cooperates with nine shipping companies, three shipyards, the supplier industry, the Norwegian Industry, the Shipping Ship Association, the Møreforskning Molde and with Marinek as project leader. The goal is renewal after 2010. The question to the Council of State is: if the Council of State agrees with the Right, what further contribution will it make to Norwegian shipping choosing environmentally-friendly solutions for its further development? Not only will it meet climate requirements but at the same time could be a major advantage for the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping when the world community is increasingly seeking such solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e427	I thank you for many interesting considerations and articles. When the Council of State says that it is a political decision that one-third can be held as equity, i.e. an environmental fund, I think - although this case is in the Ministry of Finance, which makes the rules - that he should contribute to political understanding manifesting itself in rules that allow those who are going to deal with it under an international accounting law to do so. Because it's not like that at the moment. The Minister of Finance held the Minister of Industry by hand during the presentation. I now suggest that the reverse happens, and that he helps her a little to get this in place. This is no wish on my part to misunderstand. This is a clear understanding among those who keep these accounts. When it comes to accounting, I would like to comment on the government's kick to the Right Invasion of the budget. That is not what this case concerns. Here it applies to the accounts of a number of companies and NOK 7 billion, and how this is to be handled in accounting terms. That's what's important. So I would like to comment on the Gullvågs representative's tribute to the net pay system. The right is not against the net pay scheme. We increased this arrangement from about 300 million. NOK to well over NOK 1 billion in our time. But when I hear these statements from Gullvåg about the net pay system, which I have heard many times before, there is one thing that strikes me, and that is that on the one hand, some companies are holding their stakes and saying that subsidies are important, while on the other hand, at the end of the post, you talk about the big revenues in the shipping company as if they were almost a problem. Finally, to the representative Eldegard, who wondered what the Right was doing in the last period: what we were doing was pursuing a responsible policy that, combined with tax incentives, increased employment, increased business creation, increased earnings, contributed to a reduced interest rate and increased tax revenue, which meant that the government we now have came to a fully covered table.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e440	Let me start my last post by taking the floor from the post of the representative, Mr. Hagesetter. In fact, shipping issues and the importance of shipping to the maritime cluster are one of the areas where the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have quite often come together. The net pay scheme is an example of that and the future shipping tax system is another example. When the representative says that it is important that we do what we say we should do, I am glad that that is exactly what has been the comments on the maritime strategy that has been presented, among other things. at the yard conference held in Ålesund, just after the strategy was presented. There they were actually positively surprised by the many concrete actions that are in the strategy, as point by point follows up what we say, for example. in the case of environmental technologies, where we have put in a number of measures and will stimulate and at the same time work internationally to bring about stricter environmental technology legislation. So in the area by area, we're going to do exactly what we've said. I'm glad that's the comment, at least on the outside of this house. This government has never promised to reduce the wealth tax - so that's what we're going to keep. But what we've done is we're going to increase the asset tax base, so that very many people who paid property taxes before, today, don't do it. That's what we think is a proper policy of distribution - so that's where we keep what we've been saying. So to equity once again: there was some confusion in the last post of the interpellant, I think. With regard to equity - the third that is not to be paid if you invest in environmental funds - I and the finance minister work closely together, of course, and closely with industry and legal environments, to ensure that what is political will is also legal text and regulatory text. But what I pointed out in my post was the double morale of the fact that the part that is to be repaid - which the Right is speaking against - they still choose to partially include income in their own budget. It's pretty special, when the reason for speaking against is that someone thinks it's contrary to the Constitution. But there is obviously no problem for the Right that this is contrary to the Constitution, provided that they reduce the income side to 800 million. DKK instead of DKK 1.4 billion. Two days ago I was in Haugesund at a major maritime conference, where I met representatives of both shipping companies and other parts of the industry. They give a completely different impression - finally, there has been predictability rather than uncertainty about the net pay system, rather than the unexplained relationship with the future European system, and instead of the lack of allocation of the items we have now increased in relation to what the previous government did. There's a striking difference in the way the industry even talks about what we've now presented, and how it's presented by the right here. I just have to note that the Right has chosen to suture in this case instead of dealing with the reactions that come from the industry itself. I find that the Right is very good at adjectives, but they don't present any alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e453	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e469	When Einar Gerhardsen in his time was asked what was the most important thing he had achieved in politics, he replied with the famous words: No one should have to stand in the hand anymore. The Norwegian welfare state is based on the fact that we all have the right to a helping hand from society when we need it. We have developed a comprehensive set of rights with related legislation and regulations. On the one hand, the legislation should ensure legal certainty for the beneficiary of support, but also ensure that the helping hand of society is extended to those who need it. Legislation follows bureaucracy and case handlers at different levels. The administration of our social security network was long managed by the social security network, Aetat and the local social offices. This led to many running between different offices, and the provision of services became both expensive and poor for the recipients as well as for society. This was mainly the thinking behind the NAV reform. A pool of the instrument shall provide users with one door to the welfare services. IN NAV the user needs to be at the centre - now he or she must no longer be sent from one office to the other, or fall between chairs because the communication between stations is too poor. It is a major reform we have launched, and it is an important reform. NAV is an expression of a forward-looking welfare policy, where we develop a comprehensive support device for those of us who need a hand from society for a short or longer time. The reform has broad political support. It has always been clear to us that this is a huge reform. Etats and professional environments shall be co-located and shall have premises, competence development, computer equipment and software. It costs money. At the same time, users should receive the service they are entitled to. The proceedings must proceed and the expectations of NAV are high. This is the responsibility of both the new agency and of our politicians. And expectations should be high. We have all been aware that meeting expectations will be a major challenge while the reform is in the implementation phase. There are, after all, great shifts for all those working in the system, there are practical challenges, and there are challenges related to etat cultures. Therefore, it is not to be avoided that some users are dissatisfied when they experience a misunderstanding between the expectations they have of NAV and the actual service they receive. Through a number of articles and reading posts in the Official Journal of Bergen during November and December last year, we became acquainted with the unbridled meeting of many individuals with NAV. The now deceased Tina Myhrstad worked for Innovation Norway in the United Kingdom when she found cancer. She was pregnant. When the application was made for birth grant, and later when it was relevant to apply for other social security benefits because of the cancer, this was rejected because NAV had not received form E103. NAV itself says that this form is not well known. After Bergen's Official Journal took up the matter, the NAV turned around and accepted that the form was completed afterwards. Professor Gudrun Holgersen of the University of Bergen, who is an expert on social security law, notes that NAV has followed the rules, but that the opening of the social security law to show discretion was practiced in a little flexible way before Myhrstad finally got the social security benefits. The husband says to the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 November: ‘The meeting with NAV has been extremely difficult. We may be above the average resource strength, but I can only imagine what it must be like for those who are seriously ill and do not have family and friends to help themselves." The partially ill-satisfied cleaning assistant Eva Midtvedt's experience with NAV is that it has become worse after the social security bill became NAV. In the middle of the day, she told Bergen's Official Journal on 20 November that she was very satisfied with the treatment in the social security centre. It was waiting time, but she had one case handler and got an answer when she called. After the reorganisation to NAV, the waiting time has been extended and there is a constant change of case handlers with whom it is difficult to get in touch. A lot of criticism has also been voiced by NAV’s examination of the documentation required for users. Very many complaints that medical statements and other forms of documentation have been filed with NAV. This is often discovered when users complain during the procedure, and it helps to extend the waiting time to get what they are applying for. Very many, both users and health professionals, complain that they are not in contact with the case handlers, either because the case handlers are out, or because they are not given the name and direct number. Combined with either long treatment duration and/or negative decisions, this can lead to a sense of abstinence, and our welfare apparatus appears to be a bureaucratic mastodont. The readers’ own reports about their meetings with NAV are also strong reading. The sum of all the reports that have come to my attention in other ways gives cause for concern. The amount of complaints detected in the Official Journal of Bergen may indicate that NAV in Hordaland is unable to carry out the conversion without the user being at the expense of it. We can't accept this. The NAV reform is being implemented in order to provide better services to users, and together with legislative changes, we are going to reduce red tape. Users and their needs shall be at the centre, not diagnoses and rigid regulatory interpretations. If we fail to achieve this objective, it will have consequences. The reputation of the NAV is seriously impaired. It is a problem for all of us, because it affects the motivation and ability of employees to provide the service they want and can provide. It also affects the user's image of NAV, and therefore our attitude towards the establishment. But the perhaps most serious consequence of failure to meet users is that class differences occur among users. The resources that themselves have competence and resources, or have friends or family that have them, will be able to fight up to positive decisions. The weakest users who may have more than enough to man up to call NAV will be the losers. If that happens, we'll come back to the time when you were holding your hat in your hand. Thus, the behaviour of NAV towards users is not just a matter of public service, it is also a question of democracy and equality. The implementation of such a difficult reform as this is, as I said, demanding. It's obvious to all of us that we will meet challenges, and that it will happen wrong along the way. However, I would argue that the conditions that have been revealed in Hordaland are so large that they cannot be explained that there are exceptional faults or accidents. For me, it seems that the migration process has not had a good enough focus on the needs of users and how to meet them when the department is in such a dramatic transition as they are in. If so, greater attention must be paid to this issue. The NAV reform is widely welcomed in this room, and the vision of better welfare management has created both enthusiasm and high expectations outside this room. Let's take care of these positive attitudes. Then we have to sort out any system errors that are discovered along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e498	I'm just going to start by saying that I appreciate this interpellation, and I think it is very important that we regularly have a discussion about NAV in the storeroom, because there is no doubt that the interpellant provides more examples of users who have received too poor service from the Working and Welfare House. These are matters that we are going to take seriously, and which I am concerned about in my dialogue with both the Employment and Welfare Act and the municipalities. Let me make it quite clear: users should not feel despondency and frustration in their meeting with the employment and welfare management. But before I go into the concrete relationships the interpellant takes up, I'll go back a couple of steps. The NAV reform is one of the biggest administrative reforms ever. I'm glad it's a cross-political consensus on it. It was only the Progress Party that wanted a different solution when the reform was adopted in spring 2005, among other things. wanted the party to state social assistance. It is a demanding reform with major shifts, and it is a continuous challenge to ensure a good balance between reform activities and operational tasks, so that users in the transition phase will not be harmed. We have a strong focus on this in the department's follow-up to the establishment. By the end of 2009, all municipalities shall have NAV offices. By the end of 2007, 146 NAV offices were established. The users have now got one door to go to. The work research institute’s evaluation of the pilot offices shows that the new organisation is working. Employees take greater responsibility for users since they have no other reference to them, they learn to know each other across previous etat boundaries, and they become familiar with each other's actions. For the time being, it appears that the smallest offices have developed new forms of work the most. Although there are positive features, it is clear that it will take time to get the new labour and welfare management to work as we want to. This applies in the offices which are established and of course in the approximately 320 NAV offices which are not yet established. The interpellant deals with three specific aspects. The first is a long procedure for cases that were previously curable. The 2007 results show that the agency is in a position to comply with the response times in most areas. However, the establishment has had difficulties in complying with the norm times, for example. disability benefits and child contributions, as well as the emergence of residual increases in some counties. The ETA also states that the creation of administrative units in isolation could lead to a decline in production. The Employment and Welfare Act has assured me that it will have a high focus on rest periods and proceedings in 2008. This is important, because the rate of conversion is still very high. It shall include, inter alia: more NAV offices are set up this year than in 2007, administrative units are to be established in spring 2008 and reforms to ensure new content in NAV offices are to be stepped up. The latter includes, inter alia: stepping up the qualification programme. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has called on all its county offices to provide an overview of the residual situation, to set targets for the residual situation, and to draw up plans for reducing the residuals. The Executive Board has launched close follow-up of the most frequent cases, including: by calling these counties for an exchange of experience with the best-performing counties. Hordaland is among the countries that have participated to gain experience. Furthermore, several of the offices in Hordaland have been added extra money to overtime. Developments in treatment time in the last months of 2007 suggest that results in Hordaland are moving in the right direction. The other aspect of the interpellant is that it is difficult to get in touch with case handlers because they are referred to a joint telephone service for the department. In five counties, NAV has its own customer centres serving incoming telephones to NAV offices and other units in the county. The centres were established in their time by the social security system and officers at the time of establishment of NAV only NAV Social Security. The activities are gradually expanded by connecting the NAV offices to the customer centres from start-up. The aim is for customer centres to respond promptly to users’ questionable questions. In doing so, they contribute to effective processing and to freeing up time for guidance and follow-up in the NAV offices. Where the Centre cannot answer or resolve the matter, the user shall be transferred to a NAV office or other entity. If necessary to meet the case handler at a NAV office, the customer centre shall set up an hourly contract. The establishment has had problems making the customer centres function fully as desired, for example. the response times have been longer than the unit's own target. There have been special problems in Hordaland. The reason for this is that not all of the former social security offices were connected to the customer centre. At the beginning of 2008, there were still 15 former social security offices that were not connected to the customer centre and thus the customer centre receives a number of enquiries from users of the agencies that are not yet participating in the scheme. The ETF reports that it has launched a number of systematic actions that will contribute to a gradual improvement in the quality of the service. The last relationship between the interpellant is that documentation that uses and health professionals send to the Employment and Welfare Unit disappears. Of course, this should not happen, and it is very regrettable to those who experience it. However, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare informs them that they do not have any indication that this is a systematic or comprehensive problem. User experience is important, and the user experience that the interpellant has gained is not good. Such feedback we take with us in the further work on the reform. It is also my clear belief that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare is well aware of the problems, that they are working purposefully to reduce them, and that they have a close follow-up of the counties and single offices that labor the most. Let me conclude by saying that I believe it is absolutely right that we call on the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to do something in parallel with the reform to maintain user service. Then I also think it is very likely that in such a demanding reform process, we will have examples of a failure in the procedures. I think it would have been wrong for me not to be open and honest about it. I am not least in doubt that there will be similar situations to those to which the representative Per Rune Henriksen refers in his interpellation. What's important is that we get caught up in the examples, that we use these as indications that now we have problems in a state, in an office, in an area, and that we show the ability to solve the problems and go into the problems that are there -- that we don't lean back and say that well, well, it's not strange that this is so, because now we're doing a big reform. We need to address the bad experiences of users, because we cannot live with the fact that users have to have bad services for years because we are implementing the NAV reform. That there's going to be similar situations, I'm sure, but we're going to be hard on our hands to demand that NAV take this seriously and deploy resources to solve the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e521	I am very pleased that this problem area and the issues we have raised here so much have the attention of the Council of State. I believe that if we do not succeed in the user meeting between NAV and the users in the conversion phase, this will lead to great damage - which I have also outlined in my article. What might be a bit interesting when the Council of State refers to the experience of pilot offices, i.e. operating NAV offices with merged offices, is that the experience is positive. That's good. The situations I refer to in my interpellation are really very much about the situations where users don't meet the people who work in NAV, don't meet their case handlers, don't get in touch with the people in the system, which is something quite different when you have a first-line service that works. It may be difficult first and foremost to get the right contact here, which is perceived as despairing and leads to abstinence. I also think, like the Council of State, that we will continue to see problems - single things that appear. But to the extent that these are individual things, they just have to be solved, and you have to go on. But I am also very pleased that both the establishment and political leadership have such a strong focus on the user experience of NAV during the implementation of the reform, because I think that is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e530	Let me just make a very brief comment on getting in touch with the department, which is of course very important. Our ambitions are that we should develop a more modern and professional ethos. In the past it was such that the way you could get in contact with e.g. the social security office at, was attending the social security office or calling the social security office. It was not like this in the old days either, i.e. a year or two ago, that calling the social security office was the easiest thing in the world, that you immediately got a response and immediately got a service. We must not become nostalgic in our description of what it was like. It is quite obvious that what we now want to develop, which I am sure will be good once we have made it work, is a customer centre where you will always get answers, which has an overview and sits with computers with information from both the old social security system, from the aetat and from social security offices, and which can quickly answer questions such as: when will I receive the payment, when my application has been processed - the kind of quick simple questions and answers. You do not have to queue in the local NAV office to get answers to the type of simple questions. It is nice that the person working in the NAV office takes time to guide and work with those users who have more advanced needs. We're going to develop the Internet solutions. A lot of us are gradually on the track that what we can solve over the web is important, easy and easy for us as users. So it's good for the establishment if we get good Internet pages. I record that nav.no is among the Internet sites to which it is increasingly referred as very good and good Internet sites, and we will develop that further. But it should still be that you should of course be able to meet up at the NAV office, go in and say that now I need help, I want to talk to someone, I want answers to the following questions. And you should also be able to call the case handler by regular phone if you want to talk to him. So we want to develop a system where you can get in touch with NAV via many channels in a much more professional way than what was the reality of the old system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e539	The NAV reform is a desired and long-term reform. There has been cross-political agreement that the system we have had, with such a fragmented welfare management, could not continue. There has also been a broad consensus that it has been and is a major challenge that so many people in our country are outside the labour market and instead go passively on social welfare. That is why reforming welfare management has also been very welcome, but we need to recognise that it is not easy. It is not without reason that it has taken several years to prepare for the reform and get it put to work. Substantial legislative changes have been required, and there have been major demands for conversion, not least locally, both in terms of physical conditions and in terms of forms of work. There is a reform that costs a lot of money, but it is necessary. Now that we're implementing it, we get feedback that it's demanding both for the employees and for those who are going to use the services that the administration is going to provide. It is to be expected that such a comprehensive reform will create some challenges. There are no reforms that are painless to introduce, because they are rising in existence, they usually include many people, and they require that you think differently than what you did before. The NAV reform is no exception, and we know that. It's demanding for those who work there, it's demanding to build bridges between cultures, and it's demanding to put in place all the practical and technical solutions that are necessary. But the NAV reform is also more than an organisational reform. It must be filled with content, as the Storting sketched in the treatment of St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007 last year. For example, it has to be a lot more individual focus, and we're going to solve in a system where the performance has been critical of what kind of follow-up you get. The new approaches presented also create challenges, requiring management and employees to put in place new tools to be used, such as the qualification programme and after-sales work clearance, while still providing much of the organisational element of the reform. But then we have to bear in mind: the reason for the reform and the introduction of new tools is that we want to improve the management and supply of users. We could no longer sit still and watch people go round for laps of system and regulation. Having said that, I would like to say that we must take seriously the problems that are revealed during implementation. The interpellant has taken a number of examples from Hordaland. To that I would like to say: It cannot be that people are not getting access to their case handler or not getting a response on the phone. It may not be that the time of proceedings increases or that documents disappear. If that happens, it has to be taken immediately. I have been around many NAV offices and met both employees and users. I have met users who are concerned that they will disappear in all the reorganisation and who are afraid that the services will get worse. And many of the employees say that they find it difficult to do their job as best they want, when they stand in the middle of the implementation of the reform, because it takes so much time and requires a lot. I understand that it's demanding, but we have to have routines to ensure that users don't get confused even if offices merge, even if culture is being built, and it's being trained in the use of new tools. The user shall always be centred. I am pleased and believe that it is important that what does not work comes out, because then we can improve and correct errors in procedures and regulations continuously. The Council of State said in its statement that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare is well aware of the problems and is working to do something with them. That is good, and it is important, because it is vital that we succeed in implementing one of the most important reforms of our time. People expect that, but so does the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e554	Like the inter-pellant, I and the Progress Party also receive a lot of requests for root, lack and length of proceedings at a number of NAV offices. That's why it's great that this interpellation is now being promoted. The enquiries we receive about this need to be taken seriously and in the best possible way. I particularly appreciate the fact that the interpellation is promoted by a representative of one of the government parties. In most contexts, the opposition poses critical questions and puts its finger on the shortcomings and problems of society, after enquiries and reports from individuals and the press. The members of the government and the major representatives of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party largely reject any criticism and show that there has never been more money. Sometimes when we discuss, it feels like we live in different worlds. The NAV reform is a cross-political project, and as I see it, all parties are concerned that we will succeed. Although the individual parties have had slightly different wishes for devices and instruments, we have basically agreed on this reform. I am therefore a little concerned that we should be together also during the ‘building period’ where problems, challenges, delays and misunderstandings necessarily arise. So it'll be a little weird to stand here and partly defend the Council of States. My role should be to shut up. But as politicians, we have to take on much of the responsibility for the high expectations of our citizens. We have expectations and expectations, and we have communicated this to the people. Here, three independent institutions, with different cultures, move together both physically and mentally. Employees get new premises, new colleagues, new legislation and new jobs - all at once. I actually understand that this is difficult for many, and that it does not happen completely painless. At the same time, it's unsustainable for the users who get scared, angry and frustrated. I have to point out, however, that the Progress Party and I are still of the opinion that if the social office had also been made state-owned, it would be a little less challenging. We have given ourselves extra challenges and headaches by maintaining this unnatural distinction, which the feedback bears the mark. A head of state who is not allowed to join the employment process when the municipality is hiring a new one in the social office, different working hours, different remuneration, different budgets and Christmas tables separately, are all the elements involved in making it difficult to merge the institutions that we want. The Progress Party is getting more and more supporters in its view of this. We are supported both by employees and by users through their organisations. It's no shame to turn around! The progress party has chosen to try to be a little patient, a trait I am a little bad at, and I may have chosen the wrong profession. The NAV reform would reduce red tape and increase service. For the time being, things have gone the opposite way. The bureaucracy has increased and the service has decreased. This worries me. But I think the employees are struggling. I think they're as frustrated and impatient as the users. The progress party will follow closely in the process further. It is important that the users are screened as much as possible in this transition phase we are now in. The feedback is not good. That papers are gone, I have received many enquiries, and that is, of course, unacceptable and does not invite trust. I expect the Council of State will do its utmost to ensure that this transition period is as short and painless as possible. We simply have to succeed in this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e573	Like the previous speaker, I will also give tribute to the Per Rune Henriksen Workers' Party for including this theme in this interview. I think it has a self-esteem that the Stortinget, by various crossroads, also through interpellations, focuses on this issue, namely the implementation of the NAV reform. The NAV reform is, as many have said, a major and demanding reform. We're all aware of that, and we've been aware of that. I have said this before, and I would like to repeat that the NAV reform is so big and demanding that it has the potential to be both a great success and a thunderous failure. And then let's do together what's going to happen to prevent it from becoming a failure. We have great expectations for the NAV reform, and many of the users have great expectations. But based on the examples interpellant mentioned, and a number of examples and enquiries I receive myself, if not daily then at least weekly, by e-mail and per person. The telephone from individuals who are in despair, I must say that I am also quite worried and really feel quite powerless. That is exactly why it is so nice that we now have the opportunity to discuss this in plenary. It is such that the needs of users are centered. When we adopted the NAV reform, one of the pillars of a cross-political desire was to be more able to see the users, more capable of giving each individual an individual offer. In this it is that very many of those who seek NAV, according to the law, have requirements for an individual level. And I want to challenge the Council of State precisely on this: does the Council of State have an overview of how much of those who, according to the law, actually have a claim on an individual level, who actually get it per. Today? I could imagine that the Council of State commented in more detail in a later article. If he does not have an overview of this, will he take the initiative in an independent investigation as soon as possible to clarify how many of those who are entitled to an individual level, who actually get it? That's a pretty important question. It is often the case that large reorganisations and reforms tend to lead to a rather introverted attitude in the establishment or area in a reorganization process. It has been easy to focus on everything from offices, furniture, furniture, job instructions, pay differentials, different working hours, battles for positions and re-marking. In that perspective, I'm concerned that too much attention, too much commitment and energy goes with this kind of thing, and that the big loser in this picture becomes the user who needs help. I think it is quite essential that those who are or are going to be leaders of the different NAV activities have a competence that enables them to meet the challenge that this is actually. I don't feel quite sure, based on a lot of jobs I've seen, that you've always taken a full blink in recruiting people who have the right qualities, who have the ability to blend three different cultures into one offensive foreign culture, as the ability to see the individual user, and as the ability to exploit and use - in a positive way - the space for action that the NAV reform actually provides. It is important to be aware, as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen also pointed out, that this is primarily not an organisational reform, but a reform with a new and better content to put in place to give users a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e590	Like a number of other speakers, I will also praise the interpellant for addressing this topic. At the same time, I want to reflect a little. During the time I've been sitting on Stortinget, we've been through a lot of reforms, which it's been exciting to follow. We adopted a stepping-up plan for mental health protection that has faced a number of challenges, but which, as we look back now, shows that we have succeeded in many ways in a number of areas. Nevertheless, it has been necessary on the part of Stortinget regarding the escalation plan, time and time again to engage to keep it cool and ensure that we get the funds where we're going to have them. There was considerable scepticism in some parts, perhaps especially in the Advance Party and the Right, when it was introduced. All evaluations today show that it has been a huge success. We are in the process of getting full child care coverage after the Stortinget has helped to put in place more resources in cooperation with the Government. This could have been done by some examples. I've had the great pleasure of sitting on the Social Committee, along with the Council of State today, and of deciding that we should carry out this reform. What we experienced was that there were proposals from the then government council, Ingerd Schou, which we disagreed with in Stortinget. I think it was the Stortinget at its best, where we tried to analyse: what are we going to do with this reform? How are we going to get different agencies to cooperate well? How are we going to be able to build something that is much more user-friendly than what we have today? Then we got a new reform on the table - after changing the Council of State - from the then Council of State, Dagfinn Høybräten. It is quite clear that such a major reform, as the Council of State has also stated, confronts us with challenges in which we must keep track of our intentions. But you throw the baby out with the bath water if you start arguing against the reform itself, as if it were unnecessary, because it isn't. I myself have worked in the community health service and experienced the challenges facing me through cooperation with social security and labour market settings. I have also worked in the social security system as an advisory doctor. The most common impression was that for social affairs, social security and employment, it was the definition of what to do, out of their own household, and finding the loophole that allowed responsibility to be shifted to someone else. Often when you drew circles, you got the impression that in sum the three floors were able to put the client in the space that was between the three floors. That's the space we're now going to close. That's exactly why it's good that the interpellant is concerned about keeping this on the rails. I have to say, I think it is a great strength that the Storing and government parties in the Storing are committed to their own government just to keep it on the rails. If the Storting becomes an organ that's just going to sleep waiting for the government to clean up, we're not doing our job as elected representatives. That is why it is excellent that the interpellant has taken this up. I'm also sure -- that's what I'll cost myself to say, because as well I know the Council of State -- that the Council of State is just as busy as the interpellant that this is going to be on the rails, that we're going to get it in place. When we look back, when we look at the other reforms we've been through, we're going to be proud of what we've got.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e607	In the interview, the representative Per Rune Henriksen refers in a precise way to reactions from users of NAV that I have also received. I have received letters from and met people who do not think that NAV has become easier to deal with. They themselves feel that those who give users the feeling of being a necessary evil, and that complex and comprehensive legislation and forms are used more as a protection against users than as an aid. Like the representative Henriksen, I have also been asked whether this investment in digital services and call centres does not really lead to greater distance, less human contact and more alienation between users and people in the NAV system, who have the means to improve their daily lives for each user. These reactions must be taken seriously. It is the users who are the principal contracting entities of the NAV. In this context, Storting, the State Council, the Department and the Directorate have only one main task: to ensure that users’ needs are at the centre and governing the prioritisation of both time and money in the NAV system. Despite all the complaints, I think that a lot of people think that the bet on digital tools, whether it's Internet-based click you for solutions or Call Centers, is both time-efficient and correct. This allows employees to save time to function as advanced copy machines, and to use their time to provide services to users, which means more to the individual. A document entitled ‘Strategic Plan for the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare’ outlines the main direction for the development of NAV by 2010. The plan clearly shows that the NAV management is the first to stress the importance of being close and spending time with the individual user. The vision of NAV is to give people opportunities. One of the three basic values to support the vision is to be present, and not least through experience. The second base value is to be clear in interaction with the users, and the third base value is to be solvable with the user. The size has not been involved in the development of this document, but it is not difficult to give its wholehearted support to this. Here, some of the full purpose of the NAV reform is to put the user at the centre and pool all resources in one place to provide the best possible and individually adapted assistance. Document was created by the department leader group. This group does not have any meetings with the users and depends on the ownership of all employees in the building. All employees have to experience that it is really so in practice that the most important thing that is happening in NAV is the meeting between the individual employee and the user. Only then will the NAV reform be a success. Quality is not created by organisational boxes. Quality is created by employees with commitment, experience and competence. Back to the starting point for feedback from dissatisfied users. Of course, it is utopian to believe that all users of NAV will be satisfied all the time and agree with the decisions taken. Therefore, we should be careful to conclude that these reactions indicate system failure in NAV, as the interpellant suggested. But I hope and expect that this interpellation will lead to a lot of time being spent by the Council of State in its governance dialogue with NAV to follow up on this – how the important objectives set out in the strategic plan are actually followed up in practice throughout the whole department and right up to the individual employee. Then I think we'll get better feedback in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e630	On the proposal of both the previous and the current government, Stortinget has implemented a welfare reform of large dimensions. The NAV reform is necessary, and I note that it is largely agreed in the Chamber. We have lived poorly with the third division of welfare services in the areas of labour, social affairs and social affairs. Therefore, we are quite united about a reform that should have the individual at the centre, not every single instrument in welfare services. I am pleased with today's interpellation and therefore for the opportunity the Stortinget has to discuss the status in the middle of the reform work. I don't think I can join the representative of Kønaas Kjos, who was very surprised that one of the government parties dares to travel an interpellation where one is critical of how the administration follows up the Storting's intentions. I feel that the government parties' representatives represent almost daily, but we do it with a solution-oriented intention more than a criticism-oriented one. We'll move on. We will in the future, and we will have results from what underlies the decisions that have been taken. Unfortunately, it's not just in Hordaland that we're registering problems. For the vast majority of the population, NAV is so far linked to the experience of the association of social security offices and labour market offices. The few are still covered by the real content of the NAV reform through the establishment of a NAV office, where users will meet the municipal social services together with the State Social Security and Employment Act. Through the media and in the debates at local level, I meet from time to time with criticism of an unimplemented reform. The Council of State indicated in its reply that the establishment of the NAV office remains in 320 municipalities. But also in these municipalities there are already merged social security and labour market seats. I'm worried if these state agencies don't have the power to integrate until they start to set up NAV offices where the community social services are also coming in. We must be able to expect that at least the state model is firmly anchored when we are going to move forward and put in place the new NAV offices in the municipalities, where the municipality and state cooperate. The Council of State suggests that there have also been problems with processing time, response time from customer centres, etc. It is essential for the future of the NAV reform that the Labour and Welfare Act organises in such a way that the last two thirds of the NAV offices to be established can do so with a safer foundation than the first third has experienced. We must be able to gain experience along the way, and we must be able to expect that the experience will be reflected in improvements recorded by the users and by those who will work in the offices. I feel that there is a special responsibility for NAV in the counties. This is a governmental authority with a great responsibility, and partly a separate responsibility, for the organisation of the establishment of NAV in the municipalities. After hearing about some local experiences, I ask myself whether the NAV offices at the county level interact well with the municipal sector in their county. The agreement establishing the NAV office shall be concluded with each municipality. Nevertheless, I think there should be more committed cooperation with the municipal sector in the counties through their joint bodies - whether KS or regional councils. First and foremost, the municipal sector is responsible for the use of its bodies for coordination across local borders. In fact, I believe that the Department of Labour and Welfare will serve to stimulate municipalities to interact better. We now too often meet municipalities that are too unprepared for the work to be undertaken in connection with the NAV reform. It is also the case that the NAV reform will be implemented over a four-year period. The start was already in the autumn of 2006. Then we set up 19 pilots. When visiting a part of the established offices, I have registered that someone is very satisfied and thinks this works well. Others are less satisfied. I assume that there is a follow-up and evaluation of the pilots and the established offices that will allow us to gradually use the good experience of setting up new offices. When we spend four years on this, it's very important that we always have stop-points that allow us to gain experience, so that we get out in a better way than some have experienced so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e649	The NAV reform has major objectives: better labour rights, better user rights and more efficient management. The left was - and is - a driver of the NAV reform. Only genuine cross-debate cooperation can help to safeguard citizens’ rights in meeting public rights. We've been breathing for a long time now. We have not wanted to go out hard and criticise the development of the NAV reform, because we understand that it is demanding. Reorganisation is very demanding. This is a gigantic organisation of different cultures, systems, localisation and competences. That's why it's also affordable that the interpellant takes up this, so we can discuss it in the middle of a phase. There has to be another focus. It may not be the case that, over the next three years, employees have focused on internal relationships. There has been a lot of wrangling between employees from different parts of the old system. Employees who have carried out the same tasks have received different pay because they came from different departments when the merger was carried out. It's in many ways a recipe is troubled. There has been a lot of criticism in the media in the last year, and a lot of people owe it to the reform. The problem is not necessarily the reform, but the organisation that is now taking place. The left is concerned about how to meet the needs of heavy users. In former social security and Aetat, there were complicated laws and regulations. Interpretation of these required a high level of competence. It is demanding for each case handler to have an overview and organise for users with complex problems and challenges. One door opens and a first line service that allows people not to be sent from case handler to case handlers is important for users to have a worthy offer. All user experience, which has also been referred to by the interpellant, indicates that it has necessarily not become simpler, but one door in must just mean one door in. There will be feedback about longer waiting times, poorer contact with case handlers and more bureaucracy. If this persists, the point of bringing together the social security, employment and social security offices will disappear into a single welfare office. At the local NAV office, people were supposed to get one door in, one desk and one case handler to deal with, so they didn't become a throwing ball. The left's concern is that the answer to the problem will be increased centralisation. At that time it would be difficult for all NAV offices to have access to the right skills. Centralisation of services would make it more difficult for users. The most important thing about the NAV reform must be that users feel it is easy to access the services and that their competence can be as close as possible to the user. Centralisation has never been the Left's intention of reform. Some municipalities seem to have problems with privacy. If the local NAV office is organised in office landscapes and you come to ask for help, it is not so ok to provide all sorts of private information about one barrier or sit close to another and tell your story. Many users say that the worst thing about accessing the help system in Norway is having to expand their lives in all details. In addition, if these have to be expanded when someone else sits and listens to, it can quickly end up looking for NAV, with the problems that it may result in. I would therefore urge the Council of State to give instructions that individual NAV offices do not necessarily have open office landscapes. It could have more to say than you could think. The first line service must be organised in such a way that users feel welcome and are properly received. Another data protection problem that the NAV system should focus heavily on, and which I, among other things. have previously been addressed, the practice of NAV asking and requesting full patient records in a number of contexts. Those practices should be limited as far as possible. There should be strong indications and evidence of social security before such instruments are used. Trust in the system depends on it. If people are to be able to take control of their own lives and stand up for disease or other problems, they must feel that the aid system is playing along and does not work against them. ==References== 700000 people of working age are currently out of the labour market. In order for policy objectives to be achieved and public expenditure to be balanced against revenue, more people need to come to work. It's the most important welfare policy challenge we have. Norway spends over 100 billion dollars a year on social security for people of pre-employment age. The left will make it easier to combine education, work and social security, inter alia: to prevent many from turning to complete disability. Here we support the Government's approach to the working line. But it has a constraint. Not everyone can work, not all things today's work. They must receive good offers and be met in a dignified manner. A growing group of disabled people and long-term unemployed suffer from poor living conditions. In the largest cities, homeless people and people with drug problems and mental disorders live in poor conditions. Many fall between two chairs because they do not fit in with the public services providing assistance. For the Left, it is a particular responsibility to look at these when it comes to reforming society. This is where the strongest welfare effort has to come. A society is no better than the one it offers to its weakest. The trust in the NAV reform depends on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e675	I just take the floor because I think it is important to stress that elected representatives, wherever they are, take ombudsman responsibility. I started my political career in Trondheim Social Government in 1967. I was given ombudsman responsibility. I got a steep learning curve. As a social school student, I couldn't say that I didn't get my life right inside of me, because I got it. I could not say that people from other parties who were sitting there were not willing to be part of it. I have been involved in the developments that have taken place in the years that followed, where they have been professionalised, and I have been able to see how politicians locally and nationally have awakened from the role of ombudsman they could have taken, without walking in the footsteps of the case handlers. That is why the debate that is taking place today is very important. With that rose, I would like to see it happen with the same pressure and strength in how people with drug problems today are thrown between specialist health services and municipal treatment, how citizens who are elderly and sick are getting systemed. So that's why it's praise to everyone. It's nice to say that from the opposition, because it's not obvious that government parties are a little offensively self-critical. It's not that long of experience, of course. And when someone is, I give credit for it. Nor, of course, do governments invite people to be offensively self - critical. That's why I give credit for that as well. And why? Yes, because I don't think it's a single big system reform in Norway that can take place or succeed without having the kind of debates that we have here today. I was responsible for the police reform in my time. It has probably forgotten most of the assembly, but at least I haven't forgotten the debates that took place in the wake of it. And were those crazy debates? No, it wasn't, because people had to be allowed to express what they were experiencing. You didn't have to retreat and look at people and say that they didn't exist statistically. That's why there's something liberating about this debate, both over a government council that invites it and takes it, the government parties that take it, and the others that take it. I promise on behalf of the Left that for our part we will go into these ombudsmen's roles, because it has become a lifetime experience for me that we do not. In particular, I react in the almost communist way a person refers to a little older citizens - under the meaning of the older ones, rather than the wave. Since I am 64, I get to repeat: I am no tsunami - my name is Odd Einar Dørum, and I am Norwegian citizen. I will never find myself in a statistical description of Norwegian citizens, whether they have a drug problem, or they're struggling with the economy. People have a face, and they'll be allowed to know that face is being seen. I think it was important to get the chance to say this. Now Bergen's magazine is here and praise them for it, but in the case of Norwegian politics, it's not always that the media think it's equally exciting or tabloidized to enter this ombudsman role, because it's demanding, and it's not always that you can give a fasit. It is often the case that you have to struggle to find the answer. One of the great highlights of my life was this great period of time when I and representatives from other parties in silence joined forces for a human being who was getting into a terrible system clamp with his life. She actually got her life back because she wanted to. We who were politicians set up without the media flash and sight. We just did an ombudsman's job. I think there's some such trusting grip that needs to be done. If we do not, in a country like Norway, we can quickly risk getting high expectations, and then we do not dare to meet the everyday challenges. It should at least have the social democrats of my childhood: they were clear in the speech and were not fooled away from reality. So regardless of the party position, I'm absolutely convinced that the ombudsman role we're taking here, we're going to have it. Two comments at the end: First, a tribute to the unknown bureaucrat. The person often becomes a target when we who do political work have the word. It's a challenge to be in a difficult situation, and sometimes we're going to be side by side. I've been so much beside those who are in the difficult situations, that I want to say to those who are the bosses of them: go with them, be bosses and walk with those who are in the first line -- whether you're an administrative boss or a political boss -- not to take over the job, but to see and understand and make sure that they get support in terms of skills building, sharing experiences, or what it is now. No system is getting better than the system's middle managers and top managers understanding what the front line is like. So the second message, to all Norwegian citizens who walk to, among others. NAV sites. They can take this debate as a greeting: there are some other Norwegian citizens who are elected by the people we are talking about here, who take on this responsibility, we dare be ombudsmen - regardless of party boundaries. Let it be that there were debates we could have in several other policy areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e705	Like the others who have been up here today, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. As he himself says, the way the administration meets the users is about public service, but not just that. It is also about something as important as democracy and equivalency. The NAV reform is therefore the major administrative reform that will provide us with the apparatus we need to combat poverty in Norway. That's why this is also about the trust between us and those we're chosen by. I therefore think it is positive that the Council of State gives such clear feedback that he will include the user experience that the interpellant has shown, in the further process. Then it's that unfortunately these experiences are not quite unique for Hordaland. There have also been others here today. I stand here with an example from my own county, which has exactly the same ingredients: lack of response from the establishment, non-available case handler, missing documents, refusals that are given without the user being informed, refusals that the case handler has ‘not got anything’, refusals that have been made by ‘those who are on the decision’. And who is now “the ones who are sitting on a decision”? It's not that easy to get hold of for a user. For all the over-measures, this was also a refusal that was made on the wrong basis, which did not, however, lead to the case being converted on its own initiative, but the user was told to submit a complaint - and the complaint procedure takes six months. It was after every crisis, and he applied for social assistance - was welcomed with a message that, of course, there will be reimbursement in future social security benefits, if they come. However, after a few days, there was also a refusal to apply for social assistance, as he would soon receive social security payments. That case is within a six-month appeal procedure, and this is a municipality that has a common NAV office, where both economic social assistance and state social security benefits are included. The emergency solution for him was here the Salvation Army, which took care of the rent and food, while the other bills lie there and accumulate, and he may well be registered as paying poorly some places gradually. This case therefore applies to sickness benefits for a self-employed person who has himself actively paid in to Social Security to be covered in such situations. In the middle of it came the new bill for a new period of insurance - and it came in time! I also think it is part of the picture here that the Council of State has already taken some rather important action, that of launching an follow-up evaluation of the reform. The Arbeitsforskningsinstitut gave us some preliminary results in the middle of January. It shows that a lot is on the rails. It also shows that much is preliminary to internal conditions in the building. My hope is that the interpellation leads to clear signals about a slightly different emphasis on the focus in the direction of the users. I trust the Council of State will take it seriously. All the speeches here today show that the need is there. There is a need to systematise the collection of user experiences and make it part of the etat's ongoing efforts to develop good working methods. Much of the reason for the NAV reform was that the user service in the past was not good enough, that people were throwing balls in the old system. So not only do we need to maintain service during the reform process, we also need to improve the service provided. This is about management at regional level, and it is about management at local office level. In the end, I want to return to the Labour Research Institute's in-depth reporting, because for the presentation, a local head of NAV's office was also invited, who said: Yes - a lot is positive, it's demanding - yes, but it works. Users are essentially positive. Something's on the plus, something's on the minus. It's the NAV leader in Tame who says this, and it's not dangerous to say, because it's an office that's going well. In the end, he says: NAV offices should carry out regular user studies. This I think is a statement that we should notice. It works well in many other departments: one follows the users through the system, systematically, all the time, and user data is converted into active control data in the current operation. So far, very much focus in NAV has been on internal changes and interfaces between the first and second line. Now, if we listen to the advice from Clear, we might move focus one step forward, from internal interfaces to the interface between user and entity. If we get it in a systematic way, throughout the entire floor, I'm absolutely sure we're going to experience great improvements. We can learn from bad examples, yes, but we can also learn from the good ones - not in the form of shipper roofs, but systematically and constantly, on behalf of the users we have chosen here to care for the interests of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e724	It is not so much to add to what has been said in this debate. It turns out that in this case there is still a great deal of enthusiasm and loyalty to the reform and the objectives of the reform, and we also have our attention to the users' experience of the reform. I may still think that some comments may be in place. As the Council of State had in mind, we can't bet on the old-day welfare management when we look at the problems we face in implementing a new administration. What is perhaps one of the better things is that we gradually get different ways of contacting NAV. For many, an e-mail, an Internet connection, the kind of contact, is simple and easy and fully satisfying the needs you have. Maybe that's the case for a lot of people. Others have more difficult conditions, may be in a life crisis when they need to be in contact with NAV. It's very important that we can differentiate the way we accept the users, depending on their needs. I would also like to share Mr Dørum's tribute to the anonymous bureaucrat. To the extent that we can have our thoughts on the discussions that occur during the reorganization of the courts, on the pay, working hours and cultural differences that are shown when you have to merge different levels, etc., but it is quite obvious that for the employees, for the individual working in this department, these are important questions. They have to be discussed, and there has to be a solution. There's no way out of these things. But what is very important then is that at all levels you are aware of your leadership responsibility that the department as such should have a focus on the users. Internal conditions only need to be solved as they arise. There is one aspect in my interpellation that the Council of State said that there is no experience for is a horizontal feature, and that is what the document management is about. Several of the representatives have also pointed out that the disappearance of documents is a matter of concern. I would like to ask the Council of State to take it further, and to focus on it in the further follow-up to the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e735	Only a few closing remarks from my side. I agree with all those who say that it has been an important and a good debate. Let me just answer briefly a few challenges, the last one from the interpellant, the representative Henriksen. I take it with me to request that documents disappear. So I just want to answer very briefly to the representative Engeset, who asks if we have an overview of how many of the people who are entitled to an individual level, who have actually received it. I also have to be allowed to bring it with me and ask if we have that type of documentation, and if so, if we have it, show it. Otherwise, I don't think I have anything more to contribute to the debate in addition to pointing out what I have said so far, in my two articles. Let me just, as a closing comment, go to the maybe a little unusual step and say that if I could have wished for an interpellation debate in the Stortinget, we might also have an interpellation debate where the Council of State was asked to refer to someone who has good experience in setting up the NAV: Are there any positive examples? Can we already show that someone has really experienced that instead of being a throwing ball between three systems, has now been taken seriously, got a better service, got new experiences with a welfare system that didn't work before? Then I actually think that as easy as finding examples that things aren't going well is finding examples of the opposite. We must not forget that. I would gladly take the job of finding the opposite examples. I think it's important that we also say that we are aware of that, to all the almost 20,000 people who are part of the NAV system, or who are becoming part of the NAV system. There is a formidable job out there, and already many users are reaping good from it. We must never allow ourselves to forget that it was not without reason that we chose to adopt the NAV reform. That was the sum of thousands of user experiences that eventually made us say, "This isn't possible." That is why we are now establishing something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e750	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e766	Since 11 September 2001, the fight against terrorism has become a dominant theme of international policy - to the extent that it governs many of the other foreign policy priorities. This struggle requires considerable resources. As an example, it was stated in President Bush's last State of the Union speech that after 11 September 2001, the war in Afghanistan and Iraq cost the United States NOK 3 700 billion in additional appropriations. Combating terrorism is considered to be the main reason for both. Substantial funds are also provided for this fight in many other arenas. These are monitoring to prevent concrete new terrorist acts, the location of networks and the detection and sealing of financial sources. These activities have received considerable attention for several years. There is much less focus on the reasons why terrorist networks can recruit so many to extreme and fatal acts. In the following, I ignore the terrorism we know as geographically demarcated and sprang out of entirely concrete and local contradictions and conflicts. My theme is the cross-border, globalised terrorism. Dated 9 February 2007 - i.e. one year ago - a ‘Draft report on a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists’ is available from the European Parliament. It mentions that the fight against terrorism must include violent radicalisation as a core element of EU foreign policy, neighbourhood policy and development aid. The EU document mentions the need to tackle terrorism with a global strategy, which must include both the fight against individual terrorists and the terrorist phenomenon as a whole. Unfortunately, the EU report does not go deeper into the wider causes. It mentions the need for a strategy to neutralise the radicalisation of individuals, but merely states that one knows little about the reason for radicalisation, and that there is a lack of resources for more research in this area. Nor do we from the US authorities know deeper analyses in this area. However, a debate on these issues is crucial if we, together with our allies and other democratic countries, are to succeed not only in protecting us but also in combating new terrorism in the long term. Particular attention is paid to the Arab countries and to Islamic groups. A superficial consideration that people in poverty and distress can easily recruit for terrorism is rejected by most. Experience shows that terrorists are often well educated and have a good social and economic background. Marginalisation and stigmatisation of people, on the other hand, can affect all walks of life. When it happens as a general phenomenon and concerns large groups or whole people, it can explain a general motivation, which in some people gets extreme results. That's the starting point for my approach. I would like to give some historical examples to illustrate what attitudes in the West could have helped us to develop over a long period of time in just those countries and peoples. There are examples that can also explain Osama bin Laden's statement on video a few weeks after the Twin Towers episode of September 11, 2001, when he said: “Our Islamic world has tasted the same humiliation and humiliation for more than 80 years.” Many in the West had enough of what he meant by that - 80 years? The Muslim world, on the other hand, probably immediately understood that he was aiming for settlement after World War I. What happened? The Ottoman Empire chose to support Germany in World War I, probably because the Germans fought against their own old enemy Russia. When the war turned in favour of the Allies in 1916, a secret agreement was negotiated between the British and the French at the two foreign ministers, the so-called Sykes-Picot agreement, on how to divide the crumbling Ottoman Empire. England got an even firmer grip on Egypt, and took control of Palestine, Iraq, more Gulf States and the then Trans Jordan. France received Lebanon and Syria. The agreement was a breach of promise in relation to several Arab leaders, who had gone with the Allies against the Ottomans under the promise of independence after the war. The agreement also included new, straight-line borders on the map without concern for religious, ethnic, tribal or historical assumptions. The result was, of course, a whirlwind of small and large conflicts, as well as a general view of being deceived and weakened for the benefit of the West. It belongs to the story that it was at this time that one became aware of the significant oil resources in the area. I'm going to 1951. In Iran, Mohammed Mossadegh was elected as the first democratic prime minister in the country, among others. to a programme to withdraw from the UK control of its oil resources. This led the British with American support to cast him in 1953 and put in the shahan's western-orientated regime. We also know recent history here in the West, but there is reason to believe that people in Iran remember the whole story. It will probably also be taken into account when people in the region assess what they really expect when the West is justifying its actions today with the need to implement democratic reforms. I'll go to 1991. It's in the first Gulf War. The West believes that the people of Iraq are just waiting for an opportunity to rebel against the dictator. Over the invading forces' radio, the Shia of southern Iraq is encouraged to rebel against Saddam Hussein, and they follow the call, probably in confidence that the Western forces would support them and move further north. The result was a bloody reprisal, but without action by the Western powers. Shall one wonder that the confidence of the occupied were sluggish when the same occupyings came back in the second Gulf war? There's a lot to learn from history at all. The British encountered unrest and uprising when, under the agreement of 1916, they wanted to put their favorites in the state leadership of Iraq. On August 7, 1920, a director of The Times said that it could have been written today: «How much longer are valid lives to be sacrified in the vain endeavour to impress upon the Arab population and elabrate and expensive administration which they never Ashted for and do not want.» There are many more examples, but I think we can already see some conclusions. For the past six years, I have had frequent contacts with people elected throughout the Middle East, through formal visits, conferences, lectures and working groups. Then one is regularly confronted with the claim of the West's double standards and hidden agenda. It's understandable from the historical experience they've had with us. It's naive to think they don't remember the story. It also explains why so many people sympathise with -- and that some of them are recruiting -- the terrorist networks, if it is that not just occupation, but precisely stigmatisation, marginalisation and humiliation stimulate such motivation. And then it might be those with education and social resources that are most provocative. The time has come to recognize the history and to learn from it. The 2003 UNDP 'Arab Human Development Report' shows that in these countries too, a majority want democracy. At the top of the list is legal certainty for the individual and his/her family as well as a representative board where the managers are accountable to those they govern. It doesn't necessarily mean democratic systems copying the West's solutions. History also shows how deep it is in a people to control their own country and its natural resources and to experience that the outside world has respect and tolerance for its culture, way of life and peculiarity. For Western countries, this will be a demanding task. Here, a short-term real-life policy must be combined with long-term ideal policies. In the light of an open recognition of the historical context, it is necessary to strike a balance between the current measures to protect us from the extremists and a reinforced commitment to a long-term policy where a systematic contribution to the development of moderate and reformative forces in the same countries is made on their own premises and where mutual efforts are deliberately pursued to promote tolerance. The question I am travelling is: are we willing to raise such issues within the framework of the close and committed cooperation we still want and will have with our allies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e812	I had in my manuscript a fame of the question to the interpellant, but would like to say that the post he now made was also particularly interesting. I allow myself to say that I think more people would have been interested in following this debate, because the questions that the interpellant has raised are very important, and I think the entrance gave a good starting point. The interpellant is right in saying that the fight against terrorism is not just about combating terrorists and their actions. We must also try to understand the reasons why violence is being committed. We need to understand the pit, and we need strategies to turn this understanding into action. However, let me establish a few basic premises for the cause analysis Vallersnes calls for: Firstly, terrorism is not an ideology. Terrorism is a violent instrument that strikes innocent people and spreads fear. Therefore, terrorism can never be tolerated or excused. This is a broad consensus in the UN. Secondly, a fundamental responsibility for the State is to ensure the security of its citizens. When someone tries to hit our societies with terror, the state has a duty to defend us, if necessary by military means. And we're responsible for being the leader. Protecting is also about preventing, in our own country and internationally. I want to be clear on this point: when we go into an analysis of causes of terror, it is not to relativise or in any way excuse or legitimize the use of such instruments. An analysis of the causes, on the other hand, will provide us with answers on how best to prevent terrorism. It should -- as Vallersnes wisely observes with his question -- provide us with a better basis for shaping our policies. There are signs in our time that policies are designed based on stereotypes. The term "Clash of civilizations" says something about this trend: the image of good towards evil, us against their thinking. My assessment is that the image of cultural confrontations is mostly about gross simplifications. No one has just one identity. And our values are and shall be anchored in the principle of universal human rights and human equivalency. Other countries will be able to answer separately. I want to be careful about characterising how other countries deal with this approach. However, it is precisely important as a principle to make a cause and effect analysis, because the approach to this major issue should be knowledge-based. The behaviour of Western countries in the Middle East to promote their interests in this region is highlighted as being particularly relevant to explaining the ground for terrorism, not least because much of our time has been a source of terror in the Middle East. Economic, social and political marginalisation as a breeding ground for religious fanaticism is another important cause. Probably we should have an even longer time perspective. Vallersnes’ perspective 80 years ago was interesting. Author Amin Malouf has vividly described how the conflict-filled relationship between the Arab world and the West is not just a result of colonial times. Malouf describes the Crusade as one of the great humiliations of history, and how this continues to characterize the Arabs' attitude toward the West. In brackets, there are bounds in the Balkan crossings that still have great symbolic and political significance in that region. During the colonial period, the image was reinforced. It was claimed that the colonial powers did not take into account and learn from the relative tolerance that had prevailed during the Ottoman Empire. The division of the Middle East after World Wars I and II provided a basis for conflicts we are struggling with today, well elaborated by the interpellant. The emergence of the notion of ‘combat between civilizations’ and ‘West against Islam’ therefore has a historical background to which we have to relate. At the same time, history cannot in any way give the whole explanation, and historical conditions that can explain contexts do not mean legitimizing violence and terror. Let's remind ourselves, the simplified enemy image goes both ways. In the Middle East, too, enemy images are actively being built up, images exploited by cynical forces as a polarising force for political mobilization. But these enemy images are built not only between the West and Islam, but also within Islam and different directions here. Signs suggest that authoritarian regimes in this region use a profiled tension relationship with the West as a way to legitimize their own power positions. So we have to ask: how can Norwegian foreign policy be designed to help to build up enemy images and reduce the sound-bang that terror is playing on? Knowledge is crucial. Research shows, among other things: the absence of legal and predictable democratic regimes is an important cause of terrorism. Therefore, work on the protection and promotion of human rights is essential. This is why efforts for better governance and to ensure the exercise of legitimate authority that brings confidence to the population are so important. The interpellant referred to the State of law. I think it's absolutely crucial. Research also shows that ethnic and religious discrimination and marginalisation are important factors. Therefore, efforts to strengthen the participation and inclusion of population groups are needed. A development policy that helps to reduce ethnic and economic divisions is a good contribution. Areas such as Palestine and Afghanistan are today among the very largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid, also for this reason. Only increased knowledge of each other can build confidence in the long term. Talking doesn't mean supporting the other person's point of view, but being willing to listen to the other person. In a world where we are increasingly interdependent, the need to understand each other's interests and motives increases. Understanding is not giving up on your own interests or values. Creating insight and understanding the reality of their opponents is a core task of foreign policy. Without such an understanding, we are weak. I think the interpellant here points to something important, that we haven't spent enough time getting involved in how the images are formed on the other side. All experience suggests that mutual information exchange and bridge construction are anticipating both the short and the long term. Europe's history speaks a lot about it. It is essential not to create the impression that the fight against terrorism is a war against Islam. I would like to illustrate this with two concrete examples: Norway chose to deal with the Palestinian Assembly government where Fatah, Hamas and independent Palestinian representatives negotiated a common government platform. Norway chose to deal with this assembly government because Palestinian assembly, including those who feel represented by Hamas, committed themselves to political processes. It is a prerequisite for ensuring a sustainable peace settlement with Israel. In addition, it was important for Norway to show support for a process in favour of which the elected President Abbas and the Arab world themselves were in favour. I believe that the notion of almost unison Western resistance to the processes of the region's own actors is dangerous. It's increasing polarization. Norway may have contributed to the nuance of this picture. When others close the door, it is important that someone is there to engage in dialogue, keep the political channels open and be a bond with the international community. Again, we must fight terrorism by all available means - including the acute side, from intelligence to the use of power. But then we have to think politically and look for the processes that can draw groups out of terror and into politics. Terrorist groups must be handled consistently. Nevertheless, I believe that questions can be asked about the effect of so-called blacklisting of organisations suspected of terrorism. It is relatively easy to gather up a stir up to get an organisation on such a list. There is much more to gather unanimity to get an organisation of such a list. Blacklisting may, in certain cases, help to lock an organisation firmly in the terrorist stamp and raise the threshold for those who wish to change their development. Therefore, Norway today does not have a practice in which we automatically join the EU list of terrorist organisations. We don't join such a list in an organization we're not a member of. We respect and respect the resolutions of the Security Council in this area. Our policies in Afghanistan are also based on different instruments. Afghanistan needs an international military engagement. But this is not enough to stabilize the country. Only through civil development and anchoring in Afghan political processes will it be able to achieve lasting stability. Norway therefore supports various measures that can counteract marginalisation and provide room for political processes rather than violence in Afghanistan. We discussed this in detail here in the Chamber last Tuesday. An important part of this policy is to support President Karzai's expressed desire to launch a more inclusive political process, a process in which Afghan authorities include the political forces that will build a new Afghanistan. Movements based entirely or partly on terror must be met with firmness. Movements such as Hamas and the Taliban are at the outer edge of the political space for inclusion and dialogue. With their values and their behavior, they confront us with particularly great challenges. But that doesn't mean we're going to reject any communication. I don't think so. On the other hand, we must be unambiguous and uncompromising in our anchoring in universal values and norms. If we fail to engage and include different parties, both state and non-state groups, we leave the arena and agenda to extremists and so-called spoilers. Most of these groups are anchored in deep social, economic, political and religious realities in the countries they represent. If they stop from the processes we support, they can stay there and go even deeper into what they see as the simplest means to resort to, namely, violence and terror. So, finally, we need to base our policies on insightful knowledge, skills on terror that we need to combat, and knowledge of social, economic and political conditions that affect society's development. This is a debate we are going to bring with us our closest allies and partners. I feel that there is a better climate for it now, because a policy based on the thesis about ‘we and them’ has so many failing results to point to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e875	I thank the Foreign Minister for a full and interesting answer, which I seem to contribute to bringing up a debate that I hope will be good. I must confess that I was a little in doubt when I wrote my script, about how far back in the story I was going to go. I started in 1916, but I probably had the history back to the crusades in the back of my head. However, I did not go back as far as the Minister for Foreign Affairs chose to do. But it's clear that there's a long story playing in the consciousness of some of these people, who have a great sense of remembering traditions and history. I tried to touch it in my main post, that we should be careful to enter into such a debate in such a way that it can be perceived as a relativisation or excuse of terrorism. It's not my intention. I see clearly that father. That's why I tried to stress that there is a need to combine real policy and ideal policy, i.e. to protect against extremists and their actions, but at the same time to keep track of the long-termity that is needed to prevent them. I could give more examples from history, but I chose to stop with those I gave instead. I have all these examples from meetings with colleagues, parliamentarians in the region, who are upstanding people. It is clear that all such examples can be discussed and questioned, but the point is that overall they reflect a general attitude of upcoming people in the region. It's obvious that here there's a need for as well clarification as recognition. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is both ways. It is, as the Foreign Minister said, also an enemy image that goes the other way, and internally on their side. So I finally tried to point out the need for someone here to build mutual tolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e888	This is such an interesting debate that I use every opportunity to elaborate. I don't need to take a line on the interpellant, but I think what he's drawing up here, the long, historical canvas and the insight into understanding how you feel in the eyes of others is important. One element that we could have drawn out is this concept that we often hear in the Middle East, namely the Double Standards of the West, not least in the context of the conflict that some people perceive to be the mother of many conflicts in this region, namely the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I experience, with the travels I have in the region, and similar to the representatives of Vallersnes, that we are often met by these issues: it is a tolerance for one type of violation of UN resolutions and a consistent emphasis on the importance of following them in another context. Here it builds up an image, over a long period of time, of what one perceives to be a consistent policy of interest from so-called Western countries, which has been motivated by energy resources, strategic influence, etc. I don't think we'll ever get a worldview where that kind of interest isn't governing state policy. It is now the case that the states have become part of our history, and foreign policy is, after all, about promoting it. But I think it's important - and I think Norway too can be an active country in terms of remembering what the representative Vallersnes has pulled up - to work within the UN regional organisations to make more arenas where there is contact between the groups that form these images of each other. Like many others, I have also been shocked to see what is contained in Palestinian textbooks, for example. concerning the State of Israel, where they are trained from infancy to form such enemy images. It's an example that this also works the other way. At the same time, both Vallersnes and I meet Israelis and Palestinians who are actively working to break down those images. But the environments that work for this are few, fragile and weak, whether there are groups of women on the Palestinian and Israeli sides that we support financially, or some quite lonely swallows trying to keep those dialogues going. So here I have identified a good number of areas where Norway, with quite simple instruments, can actually provide decisive support for maintaining such dialogue. To conclude, I believe the parliamentary channel is very important. Because even if it comes from regimes that choose their representatives differently from what we do, the important inputs and important channels that we can exploit are. Here, both government and big business can work further, because I think we'll meet when it comes to the attitudes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e903	Thanks to the interpellant for an interesting interpellation. Let me start with yesterday, when the Foreign Affairs Committee met with the nephew of President Karzai of Afghanistan. He said three very interesting things about the Taliban. The first thing he said, was that the Taliban, when they came to power in 1994 -- from the other side of the border, in Pakistan -- was occupied with bone-hard sharialover inside Afghanistan. That's what they were about. Now, on the other hand, the Taliban is becoming a movement in favour of international terrorism. The second thing he said was that the suicide bombs and other terrorists inside the country were largely taught at mattress schools on the other side of the border, in Pakistan. The third thing he said was that Al Qaida, and other groups, especially people from the Middle East, today make up a large part of the Taliban's attackers inside Afghanistan. The question then becomes: What is the reason for this? The interpellant answered some of that. But when we are going to make a causal analysis of the terror that has been a threat over a decade - the latest terror - and that has resulted in several attacks both in Europe, in Africa, in the Middle East and, of course, in the United States - we must also look at the conditions in countries like Pakistan. The blind hatred to which the boys in the mattress are taught is an enemy image indoctrinated by what the Minister of Foreign Affairs just called ‘kynic forces as a polarising force for political mobilization’. Pakistan is therefore not just a piece of peacemaking in Afghanistan. Much of the solution to hate and terror is actually right here. It is also the case that authoritarian regimes in the Middle East use a profiled tension relationship with the West to legitimize their own power positions. By keeping the great masses down, these regimes are helping to channel the discontent of the countries towards the West and against Israel rather than against their own rulers. So it can be said, in parentheses, that the way Israel behaves as an occupying power, this isn't very difficult either. But that is precisely why democracy, freedom of expression, well-being and equality are important in preventing fanatical movements that might resort to terror and other violent instruments. It is also important, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that part of the work to strengthen democracy in a country is to ensure the exercise of powers which have legitimacy and which provide confidence in the population. I believe that some of this is what we are doing in our civil assistance to Afghanistan. This is important both in our foreign policy and in our development and assistance policy. Therefore, Sudan and Palestine, in addition to Afghanistan, are also the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid. Norway is conducting an active human rights dialogue with several countries. It also has to be a priority task to bring our NATO allies, other partners and the United Nations to follow the same path. Active dialogue across political, religious and ethnic boundaries is also important for mutual understanding and for dampening hatred and discontent. It was noted that Norway recognised the Palestinian Assembly Government. The Norwegian government deserves praise for its Middle East policy, with a balance that allows all parties to speak. Can I finally add that terror in any case can never be understood or accepted? No matter what kind of extremist groups are behind it, I'd almost said it was the IRA or it's Al Quaida: terror only hits innocent people. It is also repugnant - if it is a parliamentary expression - and unacceptable that the Taliban now uses, among other things. minors and mentally retarded as suicide bombers. The fight against terrorism is therefore necessary, but there are also strategies and actions to prevent violence and hatred. I think the interpellant's input to this debate was very interesting. I haven't drawn so long historical perspectives, but it can be a good thing sometimes to have a discussion about how we should also deal with our colleagues in the Middle East, how we should engage in dialogue with Muslim countries, and how we should contribute to the creation of democracy, well-being, equality and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e929	Initially, I want to pay tribute to the interpellant for putting the search light on this issue. I am also pleased with the feedback from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As the interpellant claims, considerable resources are now being used to combat terrorism, and a major political focus is being given to this serious problem on a daily basis. The incident in Kabul a short time ago, which was also attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, brings us closer to these terrible acts, which this time unfortunately also hit Norwegian citizens and demanded a Norwegian life. I myself was present in New York shortly after the terrorist attack there while there was still fire in the ruins, and for one who has had a strong connection to this city for many years, this made an indelible impression. I agree with Mr Vallersnes on combating terrorism, and we must also analyse the causes. However, we must not in any way show weakness towards this type of action and those who carry it out, but be firm and resolute in our reactions to such cruel actions. Unfortunately, in the error of one person, poverty alone is the cause of terrorism. Professor Alberto Abadie of Harvard University points out that terrorism does not occur more frequently in poor countries, even after other national factors have been taken into account. Professors Alan B. Krueger of Princeton and David Laitin of Stanford both even establish that there is no basis for claiming that poverty contributes to terrorism. As Ayatollah Khomeini said after the Iranian revolution in 1979: we do not make revolution to lower the price of melon. There is a lot of evidence that neither poverty nor disease create terrorism. If that were the case, southern Africa would be one of the most terror-infected areas in the world. This is not the case, despite the fact that this region is flooded by failed and anarchist states with much poverty and disease. Southern Africa is relatively peaceful, while many of the more prosperous states of the Persian Gulf have proved to be the hatcheries of terrorists. The hijackers of 11 September came from middle- and upper-class families, not from poor people in rural areas. The fight against terrorism must therefore not be used as a political fool's game to increase transfers of aid. It has been shown repeatedly that aid does not create either peace, freedom or democracy. The terrorism we have experienced in recent years has its background in extreme Islamic environments. Much suggests that these extremists are driven by a strong hatred against Western citizens and Western values. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned Palestinian textbooks, which also encouraged such hatred, and it has not been long since we heard examples of such books being even funded by the Norwegian State. Although these environments are relatively limited in scope, we have seen many examples of them being able to mobilize larger populations in their hateful attacks on the West. An example of this is the caricature thing, which was completely blown out of proportion, and was used for everything it was worth and well saw it. As we remember, Norwegian foreign stations were also affected by these hateful attacks. We must bear in mind that most states in which terrorism has its roots have never had any element of democracy or freedom of expression, nor had any focus on fundamental human rights. We cannot therefore rule out that this may be part of the cause of developing such extreme attitudes. There is also good reason to take a closer look at the methodology used in combating terrorism. Unfortunately, there are some examples that have gone too far in many places and not shown the necessary level of success, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned when he mentioned the blacklists. I myself am a member of the Council of Europe Committee on Crime Problems and the Fight against Terrorism and am painfully aware that this work must be balanced much, much better than today. Of course, we need to do what we can to find the reason why people are doing such grotesque acts of terrorism, in order to best prevent and combat such acts. However, we must never show weakness and naivety to such people. Then I'm afraid we're losing the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e964	As the interpellant pointed out, and as others have also pointed out, the fight against terrorism became an enormous focus after 11 September 2001. Also, US generals and several research institutions point to the use of huge sums of money to combat terrorism, resources that the world community could have spent on contributing to stability, justice and solving climate problems - to mention some important challenges. Among other things, I would like to commend the interpellant for taking up the theme and for a very exciting article. Then I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who says that in order to combat terrorism we must have knowledge - knowledge of the conditions in other countries, knowledge and a little humility about the West's behaviour towards other countries. When one points to ‘the other’, three fingers actually point back to a sail. When Mahatma Gandhi was asked what he thought about the Western civilization, he replied that it would be a great thought! He probably thought about West's behavior on his worst, imperialism and crusades. As the interpellant does, we have to draw the lines to the Middle East. Author Robert Fisk has said that it is doubtful whether we actually understand the extent of the injustice committed against countries and people in the Middle East. After many years of injustice, slaughter, terror, torture, secret police and dictators, it is not easy to understand how people have endured. Fish also point to a marked change in the Middle East over the past 30 years. In the past, forces were in conflict with the West, nationalists and socialists. In Afghanistan, in Gaza, in Iraq and in southern Lebanon, today all groups are in conflict with the West, including Israel, without exception Islamists. And then, without relativizing, we're going to remember that there's only a few people who are willing to use violence. Now there's one too much, that must also be said. In order to develop a new policy, we in the West need to recognise much more clearly what we have been contributing to: a long-standing maintenance of the injustice of the Arab world and the support for, or inevitability of, Israel's brutal and persistent occupation of Palestine. I too have met courageous people on both sides, in both Israel and Palestine, who daily fight for peace, and they deserve our support. But I want to mention the international invasion of Iraq -- we don't even know how many civilian Iraqis are affected by destruction and death. Millions of Arabs have felt the humiliation of living under dictators, who have almost all been supported by the West. Other countries, including The United States has been willing to commit serious human rights violations in the fight for the rule of law over the natural resources of other countries or for geopolitical reasons. September 11 was also the day Pinochet, supported by the CIA, took power in Chile - in 1973. We must distance ourselves from the Bush doctrine of the axis of evil: that either you are with us, or you are in favour of terrorism. The protection of universal human rights and international law is vital in the fight against terrorism. The United States created the Guantanamo camp, where people are held without law and justice. Ghost aircraft from the CIA fly prisoners to secret prisons where they can be tortured without transparency. There is torture and humiliation in the Abu Greib prison in Iraq and in the Bagram base outside Kabul. Clearly, this leads to anger and violence and to the recruitment of those who will continue to contribute to the spiral of violence. We can help reverse the trend by continuing the Norwegian line by not automatically joining the EU terrorist list, via dialogue with Palestine and Israel, but at the same time withdraw from Israel's occupation of Palestine, and by supporting Karzai's attempts at dialogue with Afghanistan. defining terrorism is not a simple matter. Nelson Mandela was once defined as a terrorist by the West. The exception was indeed the Scandinavian countries. - You have to remember: what someone calls terrorists, calling other freedom fighters, said one of Mandela's closest advisers at a conference I was at in South Africa. It's also an important perspective to take with it. Another is that human rights, international law and a fair distribution of power and resources, legal certainty, equality and respect for the right of people to decide in their own country must always be fundamental values in our fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e981	Today’s interpellation wisely assumes that if terrorism is to be combated, its causes must also be revealed. So the question is, are we in Europe and in the United States willing to do such analyses? That's where I think the answer is yes. In the West there is no shortage of critical research programmes, studies and public discussions on this topic. But the question is, do we recognize the results of this? And are they taken into account in the formulation of new policies? Well, there's a different interpretation of the results, and there's a conflict with what policies they should lead to. Iraq could serve as an example of this. Interpellant assumes that an important explanation of anti-Western positions and today's terrorism has been the West's behaviour in the Middle East for the last 100 years - or 90 years, as the interpellant himself said. There is historical evidence that the actions of Western powers in the Middle East have contributed to anti-Western positions, and it is easy to find examples: the behaviour of the Western powers - on which the interpellant was involved - after World War I, when they divided the area between themselves, the conduct of the colonial powers and recent cooperation with oppressive Arab regimes, which primarily intended to secure the West's access to strategic oil resources. Many in the Middle East rightly see a double moral attitude here - or double standards, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said - when we in the West preach freedom and democracy at the same time, but in reality support authoritarian and undemocratic regimes. But it can also lead to errors if the critical search light in history is directed only one way. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in the Crusades. It is also relevant today, in the Balkans. The Muslim empires of the Middle East have also committed an assault. These major acts carried out military campaigns in North Africa and towards parts of Europe, occupying many areas in the Middle East and later also in parts of Europe, from the Balkans in the east to southern Spain in the west. There is no doubt that these actions in the West have contributed to vicarious, negative attitudes against both Turks and Muslim use of power, which we can see from, for example, the evidence of. the enlargement of the EU and the debate that is taking place in the light of it. The sum of this is that history gives ground for negative attitudes both ways. But it's a long way from there to today's terrorism. Most of them, and we must stress that, both in the Middle East and in the West, distance themselves from terrorism. That is why, in my view, we are also wise to seek explanations of terrorism in the violent ideology that the terrorists themselves are promoting. The main source of inspiration for today’s jihadistic terrorist movements, such as the United States and Japan. Al Qaida, we find the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt. The father of the Jihadist movement, Sayyid Qutb, was executed in Egyptian prison in 1966 - but his ideas of suicide bombers and martyrdom are passed on. He was in the 1950s the inspiration for attempted killing against President Nasser, and long after his death, his writings inspired those who in 1981 carried out the attack on Egypt's President, the Peace Prize winner Anwar Sadat. The terrorist movement of Hamas and several others who counter their terror against Israel has sprung out of the same root. I also think I would warn against making Israel the cause of today's terrorism, to which some indications may have been seen in some environments. Today's international terrorism is largely linked to the holy war movement Al Qaida. They will cleanse from the Muslim world all the moral destructive influence of Communists, from disbelief and from modern Western democracies. It also affects those who in these countries cooperate with the so-called infidelity. Therefore, both in the Middle East and in the West, we have to settle our own faults. We must combat hatred against the 'others', on which the foreign minister was also involved, which is based on the mistakes of the past. Instead, we must look ahead and create a culture of peace in which terrorism is not accepted. We must build that future on respect for human dignity, respect for diversity, freedom of belief and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1002	First, thank you to the interpellant for a very interesting recording. I was very excited about the deepening when I read only the actual interpellation text -- I was positively surprised at the further content. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an adequate response. I think the media -- and many people -- simplifies the threat that we see around us. This is not a fight against individual terrorists. This is not a battle against a network. It is not understood by our saying that it has its source in distress. Like what came out of both the answer and the interpellant's input, I also think we need to go back to the story to understand what's going on. When we're going to write out a medicine for this, we should use the Chinese saying: we shouldn't go to the bad doctor, who's trying to fix the disease, not to the one who's a little better, who's taking care of the symptoms, but we have to go to the best doctor, who goes into the causal relationship to the disease. Then we have to admit history, but we have to be prepared for history's recognition to be unpleasant to us who live in it. Like Marit Nybakk, I would like to refer to President Karzai's nephew, the Afghan representative of a peace and reconciliation centre, who, first of all, was pleased with the efforts that Norway has made in Afghanistan, but who gave a small index to all those who have good intentions to do something in Afghanistan. He said clearly and clearly: take us into the work. Make this a process where we identify with the result. When we look back, I think that in our well-being we have often applied both land and people measures that do not actually fit into the situation they are in. I also remember that the Foreign Affairs Committee was in Angola and spoke with a prominent political representative there, who looked over at Europe and said: what is happening today? We have economic neo-colonialism that we are struggling with in Africa. We no longer have soldiers who force us on a regime, and take out valuable resources. Now you use a slightly more invisible enemy: strong economy. And again to history: we were once in Ireland discussing the Irish uprising in Northern Ireland. Then there was an Irish representative who said this: we see that Norway is in many respects skeptical to Europe. Is it because of a five-year occupation history? If the answer is yes, look at us! We have a seven hundred - year - old - bloody - occupation history. Understand our reaction out of it! There are many international processes today that we should see in a critical light. We have to be willing in developing countries to build a democracy that has legitimacy in the population there, and that might be a different variant than the one we know -- and accept it as a good solution. I wish that one day we could have a broader debate, with a deeper input - and a full hall - for this debate is important for our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1022	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an interesting question - and for the exciting content of contributions from the interpellant and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Terrorism and its fight is one of the major issues of our time. It is therefore timely to study this phenomenon, including underlying causality and the basis for anti-Western attitudes, which have been mentioned by several. The interpellant draws up a long time perspective, almost 100 years. This underlines an important point, namely that terrorism did not begin on 11 September 2001 in the United States. On the contrary, terrorism has deep historical roots, has been defined over time and has been expressed in different ways. The new terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 is a clearer recognition that terrorism is international. Effective measures against terrorism must therefore also be international. Active dialogue, understanding and knowledge must be fundamental factors and focus on human rights. It is therefore not intended for Norway to carry out its own national analysis of causality and to take action against terrorism based on them. This must be part of a major international exercise in order to have a significant impact. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the need to build on a common analysis and understanding of the measures taken against terrorism with our friends and allies. The measures must be agreed and coordinated internationally, as we are facing an enemy who knows no borders. Stigmatizing political opponents by referring to them as terrorists has proved to be a convenient act of which the rulers have used themselves, especially after the attack on the United States on 11 September. In such cases, there is often no desire to address causality and the basis for terrorist acts. Terrorists are often labeled malicious and uncivilized. I will in no way defend acts of terrorism, but only suggest that in some cases it may be necessary to study just causal links and the basis for acts of terrorism, as several have mentioned. In this way, we can get a clearer picture of whether the terrorist stamp is justified or whether it is politically abused by the rulers. Many would also argue that today's terrorist concept is a clear threat to democracy. The Data Storage Directive, for example, has been introduced by the EU to protect people from terrorism. The surveillance society must be warned of this! Finally, you have to be able to make an opinion about whether there are more ways to eradicate terrorism than to face it with pure power, which can tear many innocent people away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1041	Let me start by thanking all the good contributors for a debate that, in my opinion, is valuable. Several have been concerned with what both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I affected, that both the history and the mechanisms go both ways. Both in terms of recognition and in terms of tolerance, there is a need for reciprocity. And for the record, I agree with Marit Nybakk that there are many other elements to address in the analysis of the causes of terrorism. My main element might have been how we're going to explain that someone is capable of recruiting terrorists. But I agree, for all intents and purposes, that there are different agendas for consciously maintaining the hostile image of the West, whether it is now to cover its own positions of power or those of others. I am very pleased that we can have a debate like this without being suspected of complacency against terrorists and concrete terrorism. Here, there must be both real and ideal, short-term and long-term, action and prevention. One can approach this matter in at least two different ways. One would be a one-sided criticism of perhaps the particular powers -- which, up through history, have been involved in the examples that have been described -- and possibly distanced from them. It could apply to several of our greatest, most important and closest allies. It might also be a way to let the debate degenerate into a purely party political contradiction here at home. The other way to approach -- which I am very pleased with, and which I think together we have made clear today -- is to view this as a historical development, where Norway is a small country, but still part of the Western family and the Western culture. We still have to be. We still want to be part of the West. We unquestionably still need allies, not least among the major acts that stand us almost culturally and valuablely. Then I think of those who recognize and enforce both human rights and the social and political rights of society, as we define them. Then we will try to influence within the framework of the friendly relations we have with these countries. It's obviously a challenge. It's precisely our concern with this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1054	I would like to repeat that I think that today we have had one of the most principal and most important debates in a long time, so I would again like to say thank you to the interpellant. I think we have drifted away from approaches to this that could create artificial Norwegian conflicts. It's a strength that we have a common approach. I just want to comment on two observations I've made. The representative, Mr Vaksdal, stated that terrorism should not be used as an approach to a naive instrument in aid policy. I agree. I think having a knowledge-based approach that says that poverty leads to terror is one too simple analysis. The representative Vaksdal quoted many scholars who have shown it through his research, and he says that issues such as democracy, freedom of expression and fundamental human rights are an important strategy against terrorism. Where the Progress Party and I separate teams may be on the question: What is Norway going to do about it? I have, with all due respect, noticed that the means we use to support different processes of peace and reconciliation are being subjected to a very dismal treatment when the Progress Party settles its budgets. That debate has taken place on other occasions. In fact, I believe that my experience during these two years I have been responsible for this is that it is quite amazing what we can do with the means to support processes that build up under the very institutions mentioned. At least I can say that we share the analysis. So we can have a slightly different view of the instruments, but it's going to be half a victory for both of them, to say it like this. Otherwise, I would like to stress that the representative Samuelsen made a very important contribution. He stressed the importance of supporting democracies that have legitimacy, for the West has been seen in many ways as a builder of democracies without legitimacy, the establishment of sets of rule. The representative of Vallersnes gave a good deal of examples. I believe, since we have had an important round of Afghanistan earlier this week, that the reference to Afghanistan is very important. And when this representative who has been in Oslo this week, says “take us along”, it also underlines how broken this is. The support we now provide for Afghan policy development must be seen by the Afghans as building it up under what they are doing. Then we are at a demanding point, which I referred to in my presentation earlier this week, namely that the way the Afghans will build their society may differ quite fundamentally from our way. We must probably be able to live with that, even though, as I said in my speech, we are going to stick to the universal human rights and the civil and political rights enshrined in the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1067	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1080	As a Schengen nation, Norway has obligations as other Schengen countries. This matter is simply about strengthening the quality of mutual cooperation by setting up preparedness teams to assist when necessary. Since Norway is an outer limit, it is a great responsibility for us: to ensure that we can actually achieve the common qualities that we have enjoyed. This proposal that the Government has promoted is undoubtedly strengthening the totality, which we all want and are dependent on so that we can actually have the quality we want. It's a unanimous justice that recommends joining this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1097	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-07.ana.ud880e1126	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
