ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e70	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting. The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e77	On behalf of the representatives Bård Hoksrud, Per Sandberg and myself, I have the pleasure of making proposals to increase the state funding of holiday relief projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e82	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole and considers it to be adopted. The President will state that the footnote on today's maps on voting time lapses and that there will be an overall vote at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e133	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the 45-minute working party, the 25-minute progress party, the right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the centre 10 minutes and the left 10 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes is proposed for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e142	Let me first thank the Committee for a very thorough and effective progress in the budgetary procedure. There is hardly any budgetary procedure in the Committee that has been so rational and effective, without the great contradictions. It's a natural consequence that we have a majority government, someone might say. It is a little sad to say that part of today's debate is perhaps a little pointless, as we know that what we are discussing, regardless of what proposals may be there from the budgetary framework and budget appropriations for 2009, has expired. It has also been shown, not least in the last few weeks, where both Prime Minister and individual state councils have signalled packages in all contexts to come at some point. Therefore, it becomes a little bit like that that all that is to be adopted today is, subject to almost clear changes in the very, very short time. In this context, I would like to quote some comments about the Budgetary Options of the Progress Party, because there is no doubt that the Progress Party has been criticized in many contexts for being unprofessional and uncritical of spending money on infrastructure. That's why it's kind of fun to be allowed to quote a number of choreographers in the last few weeks, including. Øystein Dørum, vice-president of DnB NOR, who stated not long ago: ‘I believe that tax relief would work. FrP’s alternative budget is probably what is closest to having a fascist when we look back in two years and look at what incentives have come.’ That is why, at least for me, it is a rather proud moment too, because we know that the draft budget that has been voted down, the proposal of the Progress Party from the financial position, which underpins the use of our appropriations next year for transport, is probably the phase in how to meet the challenges we face in transport and within what some call the financial crisis. I don't want to use the word financial crisis, because it's about to start going out on that date as well. Since September, the word financial crisis has been used 85 000 times, i.e. approximately. 570 times every day for 101 days. Financial crisis or not, the possibility is at least there to do something about our infrastructure. We've never had a chance at a level like this. There are also other things I think we are debating on the wrong premises, for example. what goes on in the aftermath of our infrastructure. The Committee has been working on and dealing with the core network investigation since 2006, but through dialogue with the Ministry, we have learned that the demand for our infrastructure is significantly higher today than it was in 2006. Only on the railways are we now talking about the fall from 90 billion kroner to 140 billion kroner. With regard to our tribal pathways, we have no phase or documentation, but there's no reason to believe that the aftermath on our tribal pathways is slightly less than the 230 billion kroner that were in the tribal network investigation. It might be $300 or $350 billion. Therefore, it is also wrong when the answer is that in dollars and ears we have followed up NTP, perhaps overfilled in some areas, but also underfilled in others. There will be the wrong goal in trying to do something about the poor infrastructure in Norway. That is why I allow myself to include a print from Dagbladet today, which has a notice about ‘Trafficking between the major cities of Norway’. Compared to the corresponding traffic in other countries, we are the second last. The only country behind us is Albania. It is a little interesting to see that if we compare the driving time between Oslo and Trondheim with the driving time between Stockholm and Gothenburg, where the distance is roughly the same in the number of kilometres, more than two hours are spent between Oslo and Trondheim than between Stockholm and Gothenburg. Even worse if we compare ourselves to big cities in the rest of Europe. That is what should have been the starting point for infrastructure appropriations and efforts, especially in the 2009 budget, when we are nevertheless in the cyclical situation in which we are. Then I hear the government will come with a package. We really look forward to that. So the question is whether it will be of such a size that we're at all able to do something about the lag. I believe the entire committee is looking forward to the package coming in the month-end of January/February, and we are looking forward to the national transport plan being presented, because then we really get the answer as to whether the sitting government wants to do something about the aftermath. For example, what underlies the 2009 government budget means that for road use there are 3,658 million. kr extra in relation to what was proposed by the Bondevik II Government. I would like to say that we would have liked to have seen the situation today if the proposal for the NTP from the Bondevik II government had been adopted. If it hadn't been a settlement at some point, then the crisis would have been optimal, and then probably Albania would have passed us too. Then I am pleased to record that a number of parties in the committee have moved significantly in relation to what has been the previous settings of an alternative state budget. In particular, the opposition lots are concerned. I especially want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, which has taken great steps in understanding the situation we are in. The budget of the Progress Party is the solution. We are not just proposing increased frameworks, we are proposing new financial reforms, significant reorganization, more implementation tools and a higher investment framework. We use the available capacity that is present both in the construction industry and in the Norwegian economy, especially within what can be derived from efficiency improvement, because there is no doubt that organisation is an answer to that as well. We're doubling our national road investment, NOK 6 billion. We are once again trying to build up an infrastructure fund of NOK 300 billion to provide predictability, a solution that I record that more and more people have accepted as a principle, including other parties. We're doubling to racial protection, which should probably be a priority high now in the situation we're now in. We are the party that actually launches project funding solutions. Everyone is talking about project funding, but in our alternative budget, the solutions and the tool are in place for project funding. We create loan arrangements that enable both rail and road to have predictable planning and execution. We are properly transferring more responsibility to these institutions, but I think it is absolutely necessary in the situation that politicians stay away from them in order to get proper progress. To other national roads, we increase the frame by SEK 2.2 billion. The framework of the county councils is significantly increased so that they can also take a vow. I am also proud that no one in this Chamber today can criticise the Progress Party for not prioritising the railways. I have not heard that someone has criticized us now. That's because we see that the capacity is there now. We have, as I have said, our new organisation, new tools, so that you can also take an investment promise of 3 billion on the railway in addition to what the government is proposing. And we have the right appropriations for maintenance, so we can take some of the lag and not let it increase, as it actually does under the sitting government. Of course, I am concerned that everything is going down, but we have a lot of good verbal suggestions that I record that we are getting more or less support for, and I am delighted about that. I will end by correcting a number error in the setting on page 106. Under the hood. 456 item 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, the amount shall be 377 841000. This is with the agreement of the Committee. Finally, I support the proposals that the Progress Party alone or with others is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e187	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e192	First, I would like to return a thank you to the committee leader for a clean budgetary procedure, but that does not mean that there is no major political disagreement. It was a little interesting to the right that Per Sandberg refers to economists who say that now the Progress Party has the fasit while it owes it to the economic bet. In any case, it means that the Progress Party, in the near future, has had the fasitivity of high economic cycles, because then one operated with exactly the same means of action. Overall, it's a little interesting with this foreign budget from which the Progress Party collects a lot of money. It uses a high economic cycle as well as a low economic cycle time. First of all, I have to ask: is it possible to create a foreign budget that does not have an impact on the Norwegian economy? One sees, for example: that in the OPS project in Agder, where it is a German contractor, it is actually 50 pst. Norwegian participation. Secondly, is this a proper tool in high cyclical periods, when a Norwegian worker is just going to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e201	I have just received up-to-date data from the construction industry in Norway, and there is no doubt that the available capacity in the Norwegian craft industry is significant, and it will be increasing in the future – some tracks may be 30-40 pst. leave in the first six months. But as I was also clear and clear in my post, it's not just the framework proposal or just the foreign budget of the Progress Party that matters in relation to having the fasit, it's also about organisation. If you look at the Advance Party budget, it is actually an open capacity of DKK 4-5 billion that has not been used. In this way, our proposal is adapted to the fact that we have made maximum use of the capacity within the Norwegian economy and the maximum available capacity. It could mean, as is also in our option, that there will be available funds and perhaps also available resources. So we've taken into account both the economic downturn and the economic downturn. But there is a significant difference between our alternative budget in 2009 and our budget in 2008. That's because we've taken into account that it's going to be a bigger capacity than it was in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e208	I would also like to pay tribute to the chairperson of the Committee for a clean and good budget management, without having to engage in personal cultivation for that reason. I'm going to take up the thread from the Albania debate in the persuasion debate. The representatives here also call you Albania. To me, it now seems that Albania has become the Progress Party of its new lighthouse. Among other things, the party's second leader said that Albania had now passed Norway and made a much greater effort towards transport than this government has done. And then I have a little bit of a check on Albania, and then I saw that 12 pst. of the road network of 1,800 miles is paved with asphalt, the rest is without it. So my question to the Progress Party: is it so now that Albania is the new lighthouse for the Progress Party and for the Progress Party its transport policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e217	No, but it's good to have something to compare with to show where we stand in Norway. Now it's still just 4-5 pst. of the main roads in Norway which have acceptable standards. But I would like to compare with other countries that have understood the importance of investing in infrastructure to get an efficient society, and especially with the environmental issue, it should be interesting for the representative Langeland. You spend two hours more on the distance between Oslo and Trondheim than you do, for example. between Stockholm and Gothenburg, it also means significantly more emissions. Therefore, I find it sad that Langeland does not see that a better infrastructure, especially on the road, will have a significant impact on climate emissions and the environment in Norway. But these research results don't attract any attention at all. As far as Albania is concerned, I know that they have a considerable effort in terms of the tribal roads, and that's basically what we're talking about in relation to the lack of effort here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e226	It's nice to hear that the committee chairman at least acknowledges that the state of Norwegian roads and Norwegian traffic would have been a completely different if it had been the bourgeois parties who had got their will, and he had not been involved in making a deal with the red-green parties. Finally, we have been told that the Progress Party also believes it. But it is also exciting to hear that the Vice President of the Advance Party is now pleased and proud that he does not cut the railroad. Does it mean then that he realizes that the policy previously pursued by the Progress Party was wrong, that it was wrong to enter the major cuts into the Norwegian railway? I also have to ask why there is now a cut of 200 million. kr on the State purchase scheme, which will mean a reduced offer and a lower environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e233	First of all, I have to say that we have never hidden the fact that Bondevik II's proposal for NTP had been adopted – where, moreover, the Progress Party had DKK 7.5 billion more than the government, i.e. significantly more than what the conciliation gave – the situation had been much worse today. Everyone understands that. So to the second question in relation to priorities. Yes, the Progress Party has previously prioritised the slowdown on the road to a much greater extent than the slowdown on the railway. Now we have a completely different situation and a different capacity, and we have created completely new tools that also open up to bet on the railway. Just our investment in rail and our organisational change and efficiency improvement will mean significantly more traffic as well. This will, of course, lead to savings in relation to the purchase of transport. It's a logic that at least the Progress Party understands, but that the Workers' Party has almost distanced itself from. But all the history shows that if you're more efficient, you get more for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e241	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e244	The country needs an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport sector which also contributes to regional development. The government's budget proposal is without a doubt a lift to get to this. Therefore, the plurality, the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party's setting are fully up-to-date if submitted. We have not found any reason to write much in this setting. Here are stupid greetings home or greetings to others. The budget proposal opens for the launch and development of a number of transport projects. This is what we are saying, and we have also found no reason to mention individual projects in addition to what is in the budget term. Future projects will come back to us in the context of the National Transport Plan Landfill Communication for 2010–2019. Of course, the opposition has a different starting point, with the need to do well for its alternative budget. With the 2009 budget, the Government has overfilled the financial framework of the agreed transport plan with DKK 1.9 billion. When these frames were adopted, the minority called this air money and wanted a much less ambitious plan. Right, Christian People's Party and the Left can be happy that their plans didn't get multiples. And after that, they've clearly changed their mind and now they want to spend more money than the government in the 2009 traffic budget. It reflects the difference between being in position and being in opposition. In fact, during this period the government has invested in trafficking and reversed a long-standing negative trend. The level of road and track presented is now 6.3 billion kr more than the government of Bondevik’s proposal for the 2006 government budget. From 2008 there is an increase in the budget of DKK 3.2 billion. One must then be able to say that this is a lift for the transport sector. The alternative budgets from the opposition party contain many proposals for loans, various fund arrangements, OPS, etc. We have the most faith in money. And the government has shown the will and the ability to put the money on the table. This trade effort will continue in the years ahead. The Prime Minister has warned that NTP will hold an increase in the number of billions of traffic. And while we've been waiting for the next NTP, Jens, Liv Signe and Kristin have fulfilled the rest of today's NTP and well saw it – at least measured in money. However, not all projects have been completed, mostly due to high prices. However bad a recession may be, the economic cycle may now help one get more for the money – while at the same time improving the efficiency of road and track development. There's no doubt that it's easier to get a coherent rationalization with a large budget for transport, i.e. more money and more for money. Project funding is to finance the projects in such a way as to provide rapid, rational and coherent development. Whatever model you have to choose, whether it is OPS, government debt financing, own item that follows the projects on the government budget or full greening when the project is agreed, the government will require tolls in conjunction with any toll. At least that requires priorities. That means that other projects have to wait. It is not that alternative funding that many people talk about, or project funding, solves all our transport challenges. In 2009, a total of 21 major road sections will be opened up for traffic. The government will launch a whole 14 new road project across the country. For rail too, the budget is large enough to start two new major projects, the Gevingåsen tunnel on the Nordlandsbanen and Barkåker-Tønsberg in 2009, as well as keeping high pace in the large expansions between Lysaker and Sandvika and between Sandnes and Stavanger. I think we have a good budget proposal, with a commitment to road safety, collective action, increasing maintenance and investment on both roads and roads – and not least an increase when it comes to ports and fairways. But then the budget has changed. The financial crisis and the recession are taking place more strongly than we could imagine. This is why the Government has announced that one in the new year will bring new measures, including: shall use available capacity in the construction industry. The speed of road and rail construction should be increased as investment in transport infrastructure is a good counter-cyclical policy. It has a double effect: increasing the employment and efficiency of society and business, which will make our business more competitive and robust over time. At the same time, we need to increase road safety and reduce emissions. Therefore, additional measures should also cover rail. Several railway projects must then be prepared for development. The railway works must be on the offensive, and they must receive more money for planning, so that good projects can be started. We're going to build both road and track, but there's a cross of thought that there's so much bigger reservation for road than for rail. Of course, the railway works are characterized by a number of lean years in the past. Now the situation is different. In three years, investments have increased by 140 pst. For 2009, a new railway will be built for SEK 3.2 billion in Norway, nearly DKK 1 billion more than in 2008. The railway effort will continue in a new red-green transport plan, so the priority must be given to planning. Road safety must be an overriding objective in all transport planning and development. With the 2009 budget, we get a traffic security billion. With this billion, the Government will counteract the negative developments in the number of road traffic fatalities. Fortunately, the very dramatic increase in traffic death rates in early 2008 has stopped at the end of the year, but if we are to work towards a zero vision, we need to apply the full range of targeted measures, on the road network, towards the driver, towards the car, increase control and at the same time improve rail and collective provision. The construction of 30 km of the middle parts of our most trafficked two- and three-field roads and a new 69 km of four-field roads with physical separation between running gears are important measures. With the traffic security billion, the Government doubles the effort for road safety. The way to Safe Traffic increases by 2 million. kr. It is a handle on the important work Safety Traffic does to increase road safety. So it's that the bet on racial protection is double in this period. It's also traffic security. It is often, rightly, expressed dissatisfaction with road maintenance in our country. In the 2009 budget, the Government is adding 10 pst. in the context of maintenance, and in the budget, particular emphasis is placed on winter maintenance – brewing, salting and bedding. Similarly, close follow-up to contracts between the Road Administration and the contractors for the maintenance of all necessary measures is ensured. But I'm not hiding that I still think it was an accident for the maintenance that the Road Service no longer has a maintenance and production department. When spring comes, the asphalt machines will also come out on the roads. A significant increase in asphaltification efforts will provide us with at least 1,500 km of new asphalt in 2009. With lower prices, we believe that the asphalt billion goes to 1,500 km and more. The government will strengthen public transport by over DKK 3 billion, and the total effort now totals over DKK 14 billion in 2009. In particular, rail maintenance and investment represent large amounts of money, but the doubling of funds to the compensation scheme is also an important step. Reconciliation is to be given to cities that are willing to take proper action to reduce car traffic, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and making the urban environment better and more pleasant. The doubling of the funds for the emoluments is part of the emoluments of the Storting. Here, as you know, the Progress Party was not included. It is worth noting that the Progress Party – which has such a liberal alternative budget – has not earmarked one krona for the reconciliation arrangement. Cycling roads, especially in cities, are one of many important measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector, and the Government proposes an increase in the number of foot-and-mouth and cycle roads of 70 million. kr. That's an increase of 21 pst. Fishing ports and ferries are a very important part of the transport sector. The government here suggests a real increase in these 43 million areas. kr. This means that there is more to this than national transport plan. The government has systematically strengthened oil protection, including: with the re-establishment of the main depot at Fedje in Hordaland and an increase of 25 million. kr in 2008. The proposal to increase the effort further, by 88 million. kr, in 2009 follows in a good manner the plan for the replacement of the Coastal Works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e285	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e288	When, as the Labour Party does, persistently claims that there is both overfilling and fulfillment of the NTP, it is necessary to find yourself under test. On questions, the Minister for Transport has provided a list of road projects that are part of the 2006-2009 action programme, where there is a lack of money even when the 2009 budget is taken into account. There is a total lack of NOK 2.3 billion, but if we only look at those projects that have not been tried to ‘explain’, there is still a missing amount of NOK 1.1 billion. Is there, in the view of the Workers' Party, an over-fill or only a filling of the NTP for the period 2006-2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e293	I made it clear in my post that when it is due to promises in relation to what the Storting decided in connection with the transport plan, it is an overfill. At the same time, I said that a good part of the projects were not implemented. It's related to two things. Firstly, there was a need to strengthen maintenance and operation far more than what was foreseen in the plan. Secondly, there has been an increase in the cost of the projects that have made it impossible, even with the high levels of commitment, to implement the projects within the national transport plan. That's the actual ratio, and it makes the challenges in the next transport planning period all the bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e302	The representative Rudihagen began by saying that the government parties had written very little, and that it was the opposition who wrote. That is quite right. It is in a way the opposition's ability to make policy visible when we have a budgetary procedure. At the same time, the representative Rudihagen in his contribution was now much less offensive when it came to alternative financing, OPS project financing, than what we have heard the representative has been otherwise. When one goes through the budgetary position, I really find only one new point that the government parties have put forward, and that is the chapter entitled ‘Equality’. That's the question of whether there's a new bet area. It says, among other things: that there is a need for ‘to promote equality in transport policy’ and that women drive cars to a lesser extent than men, etc. What measures do government parties want to take, and will this become a main NTP field of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e309	In any case, when it comes to project financing, I am, for my part, as offensive as I have supported. My point was that project financing as well as no free lunch, for whatever model you had to find for it – e.g. OPS, as inter alia: Right pointer - requires government privileges too, even if they do arrive at a later date. Priority is required – and down-priority is required. Yes, we want to invest in public transport, and there is a good commitment in the budget on rail and collective action. So it's one thing that ladies prefer public transport rather than driving a car itself – it's possible that some gender roles here, that there are karans anywhere grabbing in the car. This increases the supply of – cause, I was talking about the weak sex – the female sex, by increasing the supply of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e316	Here you are on thin ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e319	We'll try to get back into the land again. The representative Rudihagen stressed that the Workers' Party has the most faith in money in the transport sector. It also has a Christian People's Party. But we also believe that by organizing ourselves in a slightly different way, by changing a little bit about the financing structure, it may be possible to get more out of the money. We have repeatedly challenged the Minister of Transport in this regard, and have been told that she has no objections to trying neither new financial instruments nor changing the structure. But nothing has happened in that area. That's when we in the Christian People's Party ask ourselves the question: Is it the Workers' Party that is the stopper here, so that we don't get any changes in financial instruments or in structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e326	I totally agree with the representative Sahl that it's money that counts the most. So the question is to exploit them as efficiently as possible. For my part, I have a very pragmatic hold on how the structure should be in order for one to do it. There is provision for transport to people in this country that is decisive. Now I have noticed that the Christian People's Party proposes a reorganization of the Railway Agency to a state enterprise or a limited liability company. But whether it should happen, it also depends on government funding. I do not understand that one cannot achieve the same efficiency in the railway works by requiring the Railway Agency to operate efficiently. Then a permission must be granted to the State resources that the Railway Agency must have to do its job, whether it is a public entity, a management company or a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e337	This year's budget debate will be a step in the history of history. It was the fall of the world's stock exchanges that crashed and banks collapsed, and the Norwegian government provided a budget that was out of date when it was presented. In about a month's time, the government will have part 2 of the budget, and in March, we will have a national transport plan for the Stortinget. Today's debate is therefore influenced by what we know so far, and what priorities we have made in the financial situation. The right in next year's budget has chosen to invest heavily in transport. We have committed ourselves to the same use of money in the financial position overall as the Government, but we have re-prioritized so that there will be a strong uplift for Norwegian roads next year. Improved infrastructure and more modern transport solutions increase mobility and contribute to meeting the transport needs of society. This can lead to growth and development across the country. A well-developed and maintained infrastructure gives individuals the freedom to move in an efficient and secure manner both domestically and abroad. At the same time, the infrastructure is important for companies throughout the country to be competitive. This is the case both by making it easier for enterprises to attract labour and by reducing the costs of reaching the markets. Road construction is both a good rural policy and a good industrial policy. Better roads are also essential to move forward towards the vision of zero fatalities and permanent injuries in traffic. In economic recessions, a contribution must be made to reducing unemployment, among other things. the construction sector through increased investment in road construction. The state share of road investment needs to be increased. No major toll-free projects are now under way, and the toll ratio has increased from year to year. Failure to invest in roads in relation to the objectives of the national transport plan must be allocated in the budget for 2009. Therefore, the right will increase the appropriations to the road by DKK 1 billion compared to that resulting from the Government’s proposal. Of the amount of $1 billion, we're going to spend 750 million. kr on new road projects. Among the projects we have found room to get started, there are a number of projects that are ready-to-use – they have been completed and regulated, and the necessary decisions have been taken locally. It's just putting the spade in the ground. This applies, for example: rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika – a project that will cut the journey time between the East and the West by 20 minutes and will link the country’s largest travel-life region Hallingdal closer to the major markets in the East and near Gardermoen. We suggest that this should be an OPS project. We also propose OPS on the E18 in Inner Eastfold, on the E39 Os–Bergen and on the E6 west of Alta. Traffic-hazardous and heavily trafficked sections of the E18 can be started, as can several sections of the Coastal Road E39 and several smaller highway sections around all the counties of the country. Let's get started! It is reassuring that well over 20 major projects are well behind the framework adopted in the NTP Action Programme. It is the department itself that informs this in response to the committee. So a lot of projects get less than the suggested ones. There's enough of the projects to figure out when the crisis package comes in the new year. Right will grant 100 million. kr more than 50 mills of central government and other road safety measures. SEK to a reward scheme for safer school roads and SEK 100 million. kr for racial protection, so that the total extra bet from the Right amounts to NOK 1 billion. In addition, we will establish a maintenance fund for transport purposes of NOK 40 billion. This will result in an annual return of approx. NOK 2 billion, which can be used to meet some of the challenges of the great lag in the maintenance of the road and rail networks. This money shall ensure the stability of the maintenance budgets and shall be in addition to the normal road appropriations. At a time when the planters stop, where the order servers dry in and where the oil and asphalt prices go down, I imagine a spring and summer when all the six thousand holes that Hellbillies sing about are sealed, and where racial protection is strongly strengthened. Now we have the option. I hope the Government shows action. I saw that the Danish Government presented its national transport plan yesterday. There it is, among others. proposed to set up an infrastructure fund of EUR 90 billion. Good collective solutions are important for a smooth transport system. The very successful effort of the Bondevik II Government, with the so-called reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in urban areas, is now being followed up as part of the climate agreement. That's good. The initiative should be stepped up further. The right will have a stronger focus than the Government on public transport in large cities in order to reduce car use and increase the collective share. State grants for collective actions in districts cannot compensate for better and safer roads. That is why we are proposing to increase the funding for the reward scheme in cities by 30 million. kr. In addition, we are giving priority to funding a 50 pst youth discount. on NSB and other collective offers throughout the country. It is important to stimulate the increased use of trains and buses. Good travel habits should be re-established at an early age. We are also concerned about finding new solutions that can provide faster and more rational development, operation and maintenance of road installations. The right sees that the Government’s notified infrastructure building model, ‘project financing’, has been scrapped. This makes it even more important to continue to work on road construction through Public Private Cooperation, OPS. The experience gained from the first OPS projects that have been completed is so good, inter alia. with halved construction time and improved cost control, that the right considers that the model should be continued on appropriate sections. We are therefore very pleased that an overall opposition is behind the OPS requirement. The opposition has also gathered on a number of projects suitable for OPS funding. Competition in the railway sector is important in order to ensure optimal provision of the resources available to users. For example, increased competition in passenger services on Gjøvikbanen has been a huge success. Following the launch of competition, the Gjøvik track has received an offer of much better quality, a large increase in the number of take-offs and universal design, so that it is now also available to disabled people. More use of tenders with contractual conditions and penalties may prove to be a more appropriate and effective tool to ensure the quality of public services, for example: universal design over the legalisation of rights. We will propose the competitive deployment of rail passenger services on several lines operated by the NSB today. In the past, we have also made a proposal for an action plan for several crossing tracks on the railways. With several crossing tracks, we will increase the capacity of the railway network. I see that the government is doing something now, but the overall look at which crossing tracks can help increase capacity is missing. During the previous government period, a number of measures were implemented which resulted in an increase in rail freight of 80 pst. in the course of four years. Right-wing wish to increase competition in the development, operation and maintenance of railway infrastructure in order to secure funds for railway investment. Contest launching is not new in the railway sector. The number of railway works in recent years shows that most of the railway works’ investments and a large proportion of the maintenance have been put at a competitive disadvantage. The conversion and competitive outsourcing adopted by Stortinget in the autumn of 2004 and put into operation in 2005 resulted in lower costs for several maintenance tasks on the network. Of course, savings resulting from the launching of competition must be used to strengthen the railway. The right indicates that security remains a State responsibility and has priority number one. We also want a stronger commitment to oil protection along the coast, and we propose to allocate 15 million. NOK extra for this. Coastal nature is vulnerable and extensive pollution can have long-lasting ecological, welfare and economic consequences. A number of maritime accidents occur annually along the Norwegian coast. We recognise the very social role of the Rescue Company by contributing to greater security for all those who travel on the sea. We will therefore significantly increase the appropriations allocated to the Rescue Company in relation to the Government's proposals. For long-distance transport and for more specialised tasks, aviation and shipping are important and necessary for the nation. The right will contribute to the provision of good conditions for these industries so that travellers and all cargo can be transported safely and efficiently in the future. With today's financial turmoil, both shipping and aviation are entering a crisis. Avinor reported a decrease of 7.4 pst yesterday. in air traffic in November. The right considers that good and reliable postal and telecommunications services are also of great importance to all. Post in Stores has made the core offer of the Post more accessible to most people through localization and opening hours. Competition between undertakings in telecommunications and data services has increasingly provided customers with better and fairer services. In Norway, we have seen relatively high professional weights in the ICT industry, both in general and in specialised sectors. Right wants to contribute to the existence and growth of this competence, both by providing companies with lower taxes and taxes and by stimulating increased research. The budgetary procedure for the year has been special; gifts shall not be unpacked until the end of the new year. I hope the Government and the Council of State can be willing to listen to input from the opposition. A few days ago, we experienced that the Minister of Health was responding to good suggestions from the opposition. So far in this period, we haven't exactly experienced Navarsete as a listener and accompaniment to what the opposition is proposing. Maybe the financial crisis can turn this around. I believe that Norwegian roads and Norwegian railways will benefit from the widest possible integration of transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e384	When the state budget was presented on 7 October, the Right was satisfied with the framework and suggested that it was a good budget in that way. Now I have not registered that the Right has in any way wanted to spend more oil money than was the basis of the State budget from October 7. Now the representative of Greece himself refers to all the packages that might come in the new year. If the government were to produce a package that required us to spend some more oil money in January, February, March, would it also result in the Right breaking the rule of action – now we recognise that there is openness and the possibility within the Norwegian economy to spend some more oil money – or is it such that the Right Slave follows the rule of action with regard to the use of oil money for which it is always a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e391	It is not the representative of Greece who governs the Financial Policy of the Right, but he has some influence. I'm going to think that in a situation where the country's economy is falling, where companies have to cancel people, where there's a lack of new jobs, it would be natural to spend some extra money. That's what the right has done before. We also use counter-cyclical measures when necessary, and the rule of action is not a rule that one should be totally slavish when going down with the economy. What is the difference between the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter is that the Advance Party wants to break the rule of action every year, all the time, every single day, and wants to spend more oil money whether it's good or bad times. We want to deploy extra public resources when business wears out, when the individual is in danger of losing his job, and that's a policy that I think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e398	I have two questions: While voters and most people are calling for the state to come and clean up and make sure to do something about the financial crisis, I believe that the Right wants more of what has not worked. They want more market, more privatisation, more of the solutions that kind of created this crisis. Can't you stop and think that sometimes we have to think a little bit about, or is it just market and privatisation that applies to Right? There was an interesting interpellation here earlier this year, where Helleland talked about eID, and he expressed impatience in the sense that this had to come quickly. Then it turns out, when you look at the budget of the Right, that they cut into the instruments that can help promote the eID. What in all days is going on? Has Right No Longer Utopian?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e405	The last representative of Langeland spoke about has unfortunately been removed from our budget chapters – if it was eID he talked about; I thought it was el-ID, so I was a little in doubt. But the eID is something I'm absolutely positive to, but the cut that's made on the municipal budget, goes to the new Florø Directorate, where we want a completely different solution, by putting the State Consultant on the market. Enough about that. With regard to the second — more market, more privatisation — I would say that if Langeland thinks that we want to stimulate the economy through tax relief, that is right. One of the things that industry unison has pointed out is that the two steps taken by the Government in this budget to draw the SV – probably no one else asked for it – namely to increase the inheritance tax for the relatives and to increase the wealth tax for them with quite a lot of wealth, will contribute to the opposite of that of Langeland and I want to, namely, increase the value creation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e412	The representative of Greece is here at eID, and he has been very committed to that matter before. He had, among other things, an interpellation earlier this year where he says: ‘My interpellation today is an expression of impatience.’ He asks when the Council of State wants an electronic ID ready for launch here to land, and says that the Minister of Renewal should have had greater ambitions than this, and says that ‘I know that the Minister has, but the pace has been lacking’. The right considers that the absolutely decisive step is to introduce a national eID, and I guess then quite quickly. Then it's a little strange that the Right Cutter 40 pst. in the Directorate for Administration and ICT. It's probably hardly the trick you can do to rage a whole directorate, if you want eID fast. Isn't it better for people to do their job than they have to make big changes? Or is it that the Right is more concerned with ideology and outsourcing than to get eID in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e426	I note that representatives from the position parties have managed to find one point to take Right – that is the point that we have removed from our budget chapters and that we have transferred to the Municipal Committee. I explained that in my reply to Langeland, so I expect the representative of Wickholm to hear it. It is not that one must have difficult public directorates in order to implement an eID in order to establish Minside. I saw that the government council was on TV yesterday and was going to explain to people what PIN codes are. That's good. It's important to get people to put this into practice, and it's also important that we create solutions. We have pointed to solutions, including: the banks used, which in any case may be good transitional arrangements until one has a safer system. I think bank ID works so safely that most people take the chance to spend it when they're going to take out money in the bank. It also had to be possible to obtain public information through such a system, and that one also gets an electronic signature. But as I said – this is not part of our budget chapter, representative Wickholm. I address the proposal that the Right has, and the proposals that we have with the Christian People's Party and/or the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e435	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e438	We have a financial crisis, but we also have a climate crisis. That means we have to have multiple thoughts in our head at the same time, and it's not always that simple for some people. But in any case, when we're going to do something about the financial crisis, we have to think green, we have to think about what's good about the climate – as many politicians I think is the biggest challenge we've ever faced. Then I think it's very strange that the opposition here is gathering for several private solutions, that is, having an ideological profile of this which is more of what has not worked, more market, more market, more market, more market, when one actually sees that it needs now, more governance, more regulation – and no more fragmentation, supply and privatisation. I thought it was a cross of thought. I'm very happy that in Stortinget there is a broad multiplicity behind a climate settlement. It creates certainty that it will be well in the future, is what you have to do in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. This climate agreement must ensure that we cut two thirds in Norway. It's a huge challenge. Now in these times of crisis it makes sense to keep it in mind, that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That's what we do. by fulfilling the climate agreement in relation to the balancing arrangement, where the Right and SV merge with the others. The bridging system is an important measure to get more people to take the bus. But I think it's going to have to be stronger in the future to bring down impure traffic. In addition to carrots, there must be more whipping. I am not thinking at least of the urban area with a lot of traffic, which requires a rush-time charge to bring down car traffic. It brings me to what is the main profile for SV's part. Then I can actually only stay in Rogaland County. It shows the Government the manner in which the policy is to be implemented. In the district, in Ryfylke, is investing in race protection and road maintenance. It's essential for the districts. But in urban areas, a bet has to be set in a different way. You must not build too many roads; you must build more railways. It does one. We've got double tracks between Sandnes and Stavanger, and an organization in urban areas to bet on getting more goods on the track, and also at Risavika port to get more transport on the sea. This idea – to think differently about the city and the country – is central. A bet is also more on walking and cycling roads, which is important, also for health. The big pinkie in the sausage for me in this budget, is that the government allows $6 million. kr to the urban railway project on the North Jären. SV proposed the city track on the Nord-Jären in 1993. Everyone laughed about this in 1993. Today, a group of politicians is standing in the state and are some of the people who believe that the city railway is a trick. So the government is setting up and stimulating the state to work more actively to start construction, as we have done in Bergen. Railways are important. I agree with Rudihagen, who says that we need to have more plans and more planning capacity – not least now when we're going into a new era, close to the railway line, and, as the bulk of the population is involved, close to high-speed solutions. In a comment, the majority say that you want to plan new lines, e.g. Oslo-Ski or Eidsvoll-Hamar, for 250 km/h plus. Then we need planning capacity to do this quickly. Of course, in connection with NTP, we should come back to the accuracy of this, but I want from SV's point of view to be very precise on this – not least after driving lightning trains around the world. When I drive 300 km/h with the Shinkansen in Japan, I know that if I had not sat there, I could have a private car and ended up in traffic accidents and a bit of a quarter. Shinkansen has been running for more than 40 years – I kept saying almost as long as I've lived, but I'm 53, so it's not quite right – and it never happened. Think about how many lives we had saved if we had had a proper railway investment in Norway so that people could choose a train or a city track. When we were in Spain, checking the Madrid–Malaga track, it was great to see how the Spaniards now invest in lightning trains and spend billions of dollars – they will spend thousands of billions by 2020 – on this solution. Why do they do that? Yes, because they're thinking two thoughts at a time. They're thinking about getting people to work, and then they're thinking about reducing greenhouse gases. That's what we have to do in Norway too, now that we have the financial crisis. The motivation for France, Spain and others is to reduce air traffic. They will reduce the need for air traffic in Spain and France, thus ensuring that people choose the environmentally friendly option, not alternatives that require new airports, more aeroplanes and more pollution. I am very happy that this government has taken hold of road maintenance. As president of the Løvebakken MC Club, I know that poor road maintenance is life-threatening for MC people. Whether there is sand and single on the asphalt, or whether there is a hole in the asphalt, it is clear that it can be lethal. It must be properly maintained. I am therefore pleased that this government was given road maintenance out of the dead water for which the Bondevik II government – and the Progress Party – was responsible in its budget. Now we have a completely different commitment to this, and a great political will to continue on road maintenance – not least to get a completely different bet on walking and cycling roads than the previous government stood for. I'd like to warn you a little bit about forgetting the driver when we're talking about zero visions, etc. The driver must be properly trained and we must ensure that he takes the responsibility of a driver so that we do not get so many accidents because drivers have been careless. One measure may be to make young people drive in closed areas, Rudskogen and others, so that they become safer and better drivers. It is important to address this theme. Tragic accidents still occur very often on the roads, although there has been a slight fall in the fall. There were just five fatal accidents, a few days ago. This is something we all have to do for now. What the opposition says is always interesting. So they've run this country before SV. SV has three years of training in government. The others have seats in government. Once they get out of government offices, they get a lot of money. I thought it was when a sit in government, one should do it. That's how I try to work, I try to get more money for the railway, I try to get more money for road maintenance, and I try to do what I've always done. The parties that are currently in opposition, what are they pinging when they present budgets? What did the Progress Party do when they adopted the budget with Bondevik? They added 1 million to road maintenance. They didn't do anything about the bombs they were supposed to remove, they didn't do anything about the gas taxes, which they hoard. But when we're in government, we're actually doing something. I hope they never come back to government offices, but my advice is if they do it some time: to do what they say in opposition when they're in position. I think that's a very good advice. For a first trip as an SV, it is clear that it is imperative to sit in government, I admit that, but we get a lot of good results. Today, we hold to the plans that a majority decided in 2004 and that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party warn very strongly against adopting, because they were too ambitious. We're going to keep them going, and we're going to move on. We are now coming up with new measures relating to finance and climate in the new year – new packages of measures. I think I'll see that we have an even better profile than we have today. We are very pleased that we are on our way to a low-carbon society, among others. using Transnova, and stimulating more use of electric cars. This goes the right way, and I believe that when the package of measures is presented, you will see that it looks even better than it does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e470	It's interesting to hear the representative of Langeland hailing from what the government has done. At least for three years now, I have registered that the representative Langeland talks fantastically about what this government is going to do, and has done, on the railways, not least in the case of high-speed trains, which is one of Langeland's big fan cases. Then it becomes a little bit weird when the same Langeland today is actually going to be involved in taking down a route. For a party like SV, which says that they're busy with the railways and even have to build a high-speed train for hundreds of billion dollars, it's strange that you have to cut a distance that needs $6 million. kr to be able to drive out 2009 – i.e. the Bratsberg track in Telemark. There can be no doubt that the credibility of SV has not at least got a break, perhaps even lost a rail or two, when you see that one who boasts silently about what you get on the railway is about to go down a route.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e475	The representative Hoksrud should have boasted that he is very good at greeting home. Every time it's a matter of transport, he's on the track and he's talking to Telemark, and that's good. When it comes to the Bratsberg track, since the representative doesn't mention it, he'll be put down if there's no solution on July 1st. The path is not being laid down today – it is an agreement that was made before I became a government, that one should have another funding for him. I'm kind of innocent here. But I see the representative's point, that the Bratsberg Railway has an important function. It is also important in view of the climate, which the representative is not busy with, so I want to discuss this matter further until 1 July. It's an agreement that's been made with the county, which means we don't have anything to do with that path today. But we're looking at things further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e482	It's true, as Langeland says, that we have a climate deal with the Right and SV, and we're happy about that. I also expect SV to be happy that the opposition pushed it in the right direction, among other things. in the case of the reward scheme. There is also agreement on another major issue that will mean a lot to Norway in the future if we deal with it properly, and that is precisely the development of a forward-looking rail network for Norway, at the speeds that people will demand in the future. In this context, too, Langeland appears to be the main defender of the Government. I wonder, therefore, whether today he can give us an answer as to whether the analyses and reports so far submitted and requested by the Committee in its comments last year are a satisfactory basis for decision-making on the process we are going to undertake in connection with the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e489	I'm very happy that the Right is on the climate deal. I'm also very happy that the Right, now that they're out of government offices, are involved in good ideas about lightning trains in Norway, which SV has been through for 15 years. It's a very good idea, and it's an important thing to go on – so all the tribute to Right's efforts so far for it. When it comes to the issue of reports, I have to say that, in Stavanger I say, ‘sydra’, that is, some of those reports have been miserable. They've had a theory that a non-straight train should be operated in Norway. It was the one thesis, and then it was confirmed in the conclusion. I think there's got to be a more thorough way to do this. I also think it's interesting that Norsk Bane has brought Deutsche Bahn, who also has a great competence in this, and goes closer to this and comes up with new reports. That's what we're discussing in Regeninga. On Friday I will attend a meeting with the Railway Agency to discuss this, so this is a hot topic. I am very pleased that Right supports and continues to work with us in this matter. But Halleraker knows that had it been up to me, I had not bought a fighter plane, I had built a lightning train.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e500	I noticed that the representative of Langeland said he was busy building walking and cycling roads. But he does not want to be part of an overall opposition's proposal for a reward scheme to ensure safe school paths. Langeland, the undersigned and the entire committee have been on many committee trips during that period, and we have met parents with children and babysitters along the road showing their frustration that there are a significant number of roads, mostly school roads, which do not have a walking and cycling route. For example, we were. in East Agder and stopped at E18 at a school where Langeland spoke loudly about not using children to get new roads. What is the relationship between the representative of Langeland and the need to build a new road to get a route and a bicycle?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e509	What happened in East Agder when it was about the OPS project that one wanted to go on there, was that I realized that there was no walking and cycling path they were after. It was actually four-field motel route they were after, not priority walk and cycle path. That's why I had a vertex formula on it. I said that if you wanted a walk and a bike path, you got a requirement, but here, a four-field highway was required and the children were pushed in front of you. I'm about to say that. When it comes to walking and cycling bets, SV now has a seat in government for three years. The Christian People's Party has been in government for the last ten years much longer than SV. And I can't see that there's been so much speed in walking and cycling racing ever as it is under the red-green government. But I record that Sahl, now that he is out of government offices, also has more money for walking and cycling roads than he had when he had the opportunity to decide it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e516	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e519	«Secure Growth – Better Age» is the motto of the Christian People's Party. Under the slogan "Quality of Life for All" we develop our policies. We know that excellence is about quality of life. We know that road safety is about quality of life. We know that accessibility is about quality of life. That is why we are putting ourselves on the road. We know that environmental challenges require new solutions, not least in the transport sector. We cannot accept that people are reduced in quality of life as a result of racial danger. Nor can we accept that people die in traffic because of poor roads or lack of safety measures, or that we get an excess of asthma in the big cities due to pollution from car traffic. Quality of life for all requires good transport solutions. It is an important part of the living situation for all citizens — and we all mean it. Therefore, the infrastructure must be universally designed. When planning new infrastructure, there shall be one main solution available to all. The transport sector is particularly facing major challenges in this area. Policy considerations regarding universal design and organisation requirements for all must count more than economic considerations and market requirements. It is therefore gratifying that an overall opposition asks the Government in all transport planning to give priority to the consideration of disabled persons and the elderly with disabilities. For the Christian People's Party, administrative responsibility is central to the basic and environmental aspect, whether it concerns more and better cycling and walking routes, better collective provision or active use of the tax and tax system to promote environmentally friendly solutions in the transport sector. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal that we are together with the Left, on which we are asking the Government to draw up an action plan for the replacement of polluting diesel fuels by environmentally-rich gas ferries. I also bring forward the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to base the call for climate-friendly technology on all new national roads. Better roads also provide environmental benefits if we ensure that the newly built roads do not get significantly increased traffic. We then need to consider different traffic regulation measures, while at the same time focusing heavily on collective solutions. From an environmental point of view, it is also important to get more goods from road to sea. However, in order to achieve this, freight transport needs to be given higher priority on the tracks, and more cross-rails of 600 metres must be built. Several long crossing tracks will also improve the regularity and capacity of passenger traffic. Goods on the road are essentially about long-distance transport. The goods must also be moved from the terminals to the users. We can't get away with freight transport on the roads, but we have to make sure that the main road network is unloaded as much as possible. There's a difference between town and country. We're going to bet on collective solutions where possible, especially in the larger cities and in the central districts. In the eastern region, it is particularly important to speed up the development of the rail network. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed 100 million. kr extra, in addition to the Government's proposal, for fast-realizable projects in the intercity triangle. But in many places, public transport is not an alternative to a car. There we have to bet on more and better – and not least safer – roads. We cannot give priority to means of transport based on accident and population density statistics alone. Not least in the interests of business, efficient transport solutions in rural areas are very important. The development of good and secure road networks in rural areas is a good business policy. Let me say it as I heard a breeder say: there is no one who has it as busy on the road as fresh, dead salmon. Moreover, I would like to stress the proposal of an overall opposition that is dealing with better node solutions. Better public nodes and ports where more means of transport are encountered are good examples of this. The need for pedestrian and cycle routes is great both in congested and high traffic areas and in scattered areas. In many places, for example: construction roads the only way to school. Such is the situation today, travelling children, cyclists, wheelchair users and pushchairs in many places in the same driving area as heavy traffic, cars and tractors. It's not acceptable. Much of the key to more and better walking and cycling routes lies with municipalities and county municipalities. That is why we are proposing the establishment of a state reward scheme. It will contribute to more and better walking and cycling routes, and not least safer school roads. For the Christian People's Party, the slogan is "Safe Growing Up" – and we take it seriously! Traffic safety must be of first and highest priority. In particular, it is important to put in place several sections with middle parts and safe raspension areas. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes 150 million. kr extra for racial protection in our alternative budget. A much faster pace of racial protection is needed. Let me also mention the drug problem. We need to do more to remove alcohol-induced drivers from traffic. One tool is an alcohol lock. I'm not going to repeat the whole committee's comment in the vote, but it's a pleasure that all parties are positive to alcolock as a tool. It is also gratifying that the opposition stands united behind a proposal in this case. NEW Corridor has been under investigation with the aim of developing a new transport corridor through Narvik to China and further to the United States. The business plan of the company NEW Corridor AS outlines a gradual development of the transport line, but this government stopped the project on the upstream side. Without state support, there will be no NEW Corridor. Now the fires are going on again, and the Foreign Minister gave a certain opening for support in the foreign debate the other day, as the Christian People's Party has supported with 2 million. kr in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. The government must go into this project in a far more offensive way than it is today. The establishment of a permanent transport corridor between Narvik and China will have very positive industrial and employment effects in the region. The Hurtigruten has significant economic challenges. The government has shown very little activity in this matter in the last two years. The negotiations on a revised agreement took too long after the view of the Christian People's Party. It is good that the Government has now come up with immediate measures, but it had to exert massive pressure. And it came in the last hour. The high-speed route is an important part of the infrastructure along the coast. With its 34 locations, from Bergen to Kirkenes, Hurtigruten means a great deal to local communities along the ladder, and not least to the tourist industry. The Hurtigruten not only offers beautiful nature experiences for the tourists, but significant amounts of goods go with Hurtigruten. For many fishing communities, especially in Finnmark, keel and freezers with Hurtigruten constitute the only dangerous road in winter time. There can be no doubt whatsoever that the State has the primary responsibility for Hurtigruten's future in its present form. The rescue company has had to carry out major reorganisations and efficiency measures. In such a situation, it is sad that the government’s proposal does not even compensate for the price increase. I ask the Council of State to note that there is an overall committee that now requires the Government to follow closely the development of the Rescue Company so that its operations can be maintained at a high level along the coast. In the past, the government has promised to come back to the case of the City Ship Tunnel in 2009. The government granted three years for a new impact assessment, but an overall opposition now requires the matter to be brought to the Stortings table early in the spring. There is a need to raise significant investment funds for the construction of new infrastructure, and we need to re-enter maintenance. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has granted an extra DKK 1 billion for transportation beyond the government budget in the hope that we would get a package of measures before Christmas. Now this package of measures comes first to spring, but the Christian People's Party wants to be an active co-player in that area. I'm going to come back to structural measures at a later stage – I see the clock going. Let me just end by saying that the Christian People's Party is betting on transportation. Our transport policy is based on four main pillars: accessibility, accessibility, road safety and the environment. We take the slogan "Quality of Life for All" seriously!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e572	The President expects the representative to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e575	Yes, I will address the suggestions of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e581	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e586	When the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party added to the NTP by 2.2 billion per. year, the representative Jan Sahl called it populism and air billions. It looks like they're good to have now. Is it so to understand that in relation to transport challenges and promises, it is better to deal with it in the opposition than in the position? Why didn't any of these issues and challenges be solved when you had the opportunity? One could not follow up on one’s own NTP – this has not come overnight. We're in the process, but that wasn't enough at that time. It would have been okay to get a proper clarification on it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e593	Who fulfils their own NTP, we can ask questions based on the lists we have obtained of projects that have not been implemented. The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has countless times reminded me of these air billions. I later boasted of the sitting government because it has fulfilled the NTP in terms of funds. But I'm very disappointed in the follow-up to North Norway. I'll come back to it in a separate post. But I think I'll say it this way: when it comes to the appropriations for North Norway during this period, we haven't even been in the vicinity of air billions, despite the fact that we have the bets of time on transportation. And I think that the representative Tor-Arne Stroem also feels significantly responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e600	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party, as one of three parties in the Bondevik government, is the party that has taken great steps in the positive direction of seeing what challenges we have in infrastructure and transport. I registered in the Railway Station No. 9 this year that the representative Sahl was out and signalled that the Christian People's Party had proposed changes in ownership, structure and loan arrangements. It follows the Christian People's Party today, and we are very pleased that they join the proposals of the Advance Party there. But does this mean, when the Christian People's Party has now come up with good ideas, that perhaps one will also follow the Progress Party in terms of the overall organisation – bringing together all infrastructure and all transport within one department, within one directorate and perhaps also within one transport supervision, instead of getting more supervision and more directorates?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e609	I am grateful for the kind attitude that the representative Sandberg has towards the Christian People's Party in terms of the job we have done in this period of trying to rethink in terms of funding forms, and in terms of structure. Who has approached each other, you can ask questions about it. The Christian People's Party wants more efficient use of the means we use in the transport sector, and I'm glad that an overall opposition is now actually behind it. When it comes to bringing everything together in one mode of transport, the Christian People's Party has not taken a stand on it at this time. But what we've been discussing is whether it's appropriate that we have transportation along the coast and onshore transport divided into two departments. So we could probably get back to that in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e616	Part of what Jan Sahl from the Christian People's Party said in his article about universal design, I believe is right. I don't think we've done a good enough job there, neither Christian People's Party, when they put in government, or when we've been in government, to say it like that, or when we've been in parliament. But there we now have something more to do when we have a law that will ensure this in the future. So I also think Sahl should be glad that when we come back to the national transport plan, even when it comes to the action package, this is a topic. But my question is really the same as Per Sandberg's. I feel that the Christian People's Party has been in opposition for the three years, moving more and more in the direction of the Advance Party, more and more in the direction of private solutions. Even when the financial crisis is there, one wants to use more market forces. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party is now moving away from its core values and moving on to more market-oriented solutions that one did not already stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e623	If the representative of Langeland refers to the job we've done in the transport sector, and that we're dealing with it, it's just an attempt by the Christian People's Party to get a more efficient delivery of particularly large projects. It has to do with funding solutions, it has to do with having clear funding when the project is started. And if you get problems along the way, you have to have a government loan scheme that you can afford to avoid waiting for any new budget. In addition, we believe that it is possible to make progress towards making relations with state enterprises, so that they have a slightly greater freedom within the framework of spending money in a more sensible way, while at the same time becoming their own legal entities that can take up loans, either by the State Loan Fund or in the private market. Something else is not really in the new challenges we have pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e635	There is no doubt that transportation is a policy area that engages most people. No matter if we run a passenger car, a trailer, bicycles or go, we're busy safely and properly. We want trains and buses, flights and ferries to go often enough and at the right time. In addition, the record shall be provided regardless of the weather and the conditions under which it is carried out. The centre and red-green parts have been traded as a betting area for this period. The budget for 2009 represents an additional increase in the means of transport, and in this way we are doing what we can to meet the expectations that people throughout the country have for a better route and for a more flexible public transport system. We have stressed that the national transport plan should no longer be just an unrealistic wish list, but an operational document. That's why, as the first government, we have met the limits of the NTP and go further to next year by overfilling up to NOK 2 billion. Nevertheless, it is not possible to have a debate on the budget for next year without addressing the economic situation in which our country and the world are now involved, and the measures that need to be taken in relation to this situation. Unfortunately, we have been through a period in which progress has been assessed more according to the pace than the direction. Consumption has been ahead of administration, economic growth has been too little based on the production of real values. Speculation and greed in a financial market without adequate governance has led us into a time of financial turmoil and steeply rising unemployment. This has something to say to us who are engaged in transportation here on the Stortinget as well. The drop in activity is much faster than expected, and our question is, what do we do to give a positive direction to the future? The center party believes that the time has come to smear. What we're going to forge is a better infrastructure that, on the one hand, means that we're getting a lot of people who would otherwise have lost the job. On the other hand, a major transport effort – which is part of the Government’s crisis package – must have a long perspective, by providing better roads and railways with a means of increasing value creation in the future. The export industry is among those who depend on the quick and safe movement of the goods. The opposition likes to criticize the Government for being late with these crisis measures. I am of the opinion that we should listen to the opposition once in a while, and I have to admit that many in the Center Party have also been impatient after taking different measures. However, it is important to stress that the measures to be taken must be well thought out and have a good impact both in the short and long term. Interest needs to be reduced and the financial market needs to function again. From a variety of quarters, the government has just been boasted of having contributed to this. The next step will be to secure jobs by investing and keeping, among other things. the infrastructure at the same time. In the construction industry, the unemployment rate is accelerating. It is easy to focus on all the problems created by the financial turmoil, as it is now gradually developing into a major and major real economic crisis. But we should also look at the possibilities that open up. We have had a longer period of lack of labour that has contributed to a high price level, and the fear of pushing the economy too hard has been a hindrance to be able to invest more in transport. Now we can give up on maintenance and investment, prices go down, and we get more for the money. What is it that we should bet on in the year that comes? It is not difficult to find sections that require digging and asphalting, bridges and tunnels that need maintenance. Such projects do not require that long scheduling time and may start quickly. However, it is also important to use funds for investments that have a good socio-economic impact. A good deal of such projects have been planned, but in order to be sure that we have many good projects that can be implemented during 2009, the Government has increased funding for planning. This is a reasonable approach, because we know that it can take plus/minus six months from one set of planning to one can take to build. In addition, we have many holiday homes and parking spaces that are so poor and so small that it is not possible to set up ferry routes on offer, as the intention has been. We hope to give more modern and larger ferries, but until there is a greater need for the holiday home, so that it is possible to add larger ferries. Racism is an important area in which we in the State budget have shown great willingness and ability to invest more. With 650 million. kr to this goal in next year's budget, the Government shows a clear direction towards what we in the Center Party so strongly want: a race-protection billion that will enable us to carry out important projects that create security of life and health in the rosy areas. The accident on the Racial Protection Beach in the autumn on the agenda, and this project is one of several important projects on which we need to find a solution in the overcrowded future. Other road safety measures are also high priorities in the next year’s budget. Although it is probably true what has been said, that the biggest failed traffic police find in the cars, they are behind the wheel, it is undeniably necessary to spend more money on measures such as midpoints and point and cross-repairs. We also need to build multiple times and bike paths, which, in addition to making it safer for walking and cycling to travel along our roads, create a better environment for people and get more people up from the good chair and out into fresh air. Finally, the 2009 budget is initially an offensive budget, but the Government will follow up with the necessary measures to meet the current economic situation. Better access and rail investment will make our business stronger in international competition and will, both in the short and long term, help secure jobs and strengthen value creation, which will at all times be the foundation of our well-being society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e676	The representative of the Klinge said that this government was offensive, and she was also very concerned about road safety. The question is then: do you think that 30 km of new middle parts on the existing roads of two and three fields are offensive, when the need is 520 km? For me there is at least not much offensive bet. The representative, Klinge, also stated that the 2009 budget is an offensive budget. Yes, it is an offensive budget with 29 broken promises at least, according to a list on page 19 of the agenda of the Transport and Communications Committee. I could imagine hearing if the representative Klinge would say anything if one had intended to follow up the 29 broken promises with appropriations for these 29 road projects that the Government had had in connection with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e684	First of all, the concrete question of middle parts. Midpoints are a part – an important part, but to the extent that only one part – of all the road safety measures that we are forced to implement. To the second question, now it's always like this in budgetary negotiations that we never get room for everything. But the direction and pace that this government has had on the movement effort clearly shows that if we get trust and thus four new years, we're definitely going to meet the 29 rises, as well as maybe 100 or 200 more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e691	In previous context, the centre party has been engaged in the maintenance of the rescue company. The Central Board of the Rescue Company has recently decided to take two of the 26 permanent manned skates out of standby for 2009, and they say that the sale of boats can become relevant in the economic situation in which they are in, and because of the cuts made in the budgets of the current government with regard to the Rescue Company. So the company's going to spend $300 million. kr in total on the operation of the marine rescue service. The Transport Economic Institute estimated in 2005 that the annual contribution of the company amounts to DKK 1 billion in direct social benefits. My question to the Central Party is whether we are satisfied with the development of the budgets that we are now experiencing with regard to the Rescue Company. Is it that you've come into bad company with a party that's not so busy with non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e698	This government is, of course, busy with the Rescue Company and the work they do. Now, on the one hand, it has been important for them to go in and use the money wisely. On the other hand, of course, we will follow the situation in the future and do what we see is necessary to enable them to continue the good work they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e703	The representative of Klinge referred to the invitation to tender in his statement here instead. In the presence of the representative, the round of tenders for ferry services has not started for two major regions because no political signal has been given as to the quality requirements to be set for ferry services. Modern ferries of the future may require larger and better ferries. It would be backwards not to facilitate it for the next ten years. Does the representative, Mrs Klinge, think it is a good thing that the progress made in the tendering round for ferry services in Møre and Romesdal has stopped in two major areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e710	No, I don't think that's a good situation. I have a clear feeling that in the 2010 budget we are forced to have a proper investment on holiday homes, so that work can be published on offer, because it is unlikely to be important for the ferry companies that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e715	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e718	It's a little strange to discuss a budget for transport that's been made in completely different economic times than what we have today, which more people have been involved in, among other things. the Chairman of the Committee. Today, the construction industry is closest and is asking its knees for an understanding of the need for immediate action — and quickly. We already assumed this at the hearings on the budget, and since that time it has only become worse. Nothing is worse than fear of their job, so I hope we can agree to take a joint responsibility for what is happening now. However, despite the financial crisis and the package of measures, I still use this last large round of budgets for a slight look back at this period of enlargement. The first year of the period, I always prepared the political accounts of the Bondevik II government so that I could frame up everything we delivered over the four years: the first collective announcement, the reward scheme that was speeding up the important Colza Railway that had stopped, increased investment in road safety, competition for better services in transport, etc. But I left the list because I wanted us to work together in future debates on good solutions, that Stortinget should be a political workshop. I wanted solution-oriented debates on structural changes, visions and modernisation in the transport sector. But it didn't. Instead, in all debates and in all answers, there was one sentence that went on again, namely, ‘as opposed to the previous government, this government has...’, i.e., self-criticism about how much money is spent on the community’s money on transport. All the proposals and everything that came from the opposition were viewed as criticism, and we got the rhetorical question of why we didn't do anything about this while we were in government. It is still being used against us, at the latest in the debate on Monday. Society is changing, and all of us in opposition are driving policy development. It happens at every program we create. It must be allowed for the opposition to come up with new, good ideas even if you were in government four years ago. In addition, the answer we met all the time is, "we spend a lot more money than you did, we fulfill and overfill NTP." Of course, the government spends more money, something else would be completely irresponsible in the economic situation that Norway is in now. Most of the opposition also use today's rule of action just as the government does. But then what? After almost four years in a majority government, results need to be sought. Have we come closer to the zero vision on road safety? No, on the contrary. We've had an increase in traffic fatalities. Have we been able to clean up the train chaos that has now remained for several years? No, the commuters do not notice any improvement, on the contrary, we go every year towards new records in delays and settings in train traffic. What about the development of walking and cycling roads? Has the target been reached? No, no, no. I prefer the position to talk about what concrete results they have achieved, rather than boasting about how much money they spend. That's the result that counts. Or isn't it? There is no need to spend a lot of money when the revenue is record high, we can all do that. I think it’s time to set goals for what you actually want to achieve with money use – it’s much more important. During the interpellation with Arne Sortevik on Monday evening, which was about modernisation, I noticed that the Minister for Transport thought it was a boring debate. She said right away, "The theme that's taken up here today is not very exciting." Isn't a modernisation debate exciting? From my point of view, it is perhaps the most exciting thing we can discuss in the transport sector. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport on what is exciting in the transport sector. What visions does she have for the sector – visions about something more than money? Or is it that she is satisfied with the state of things? I don't need to hear that there's money, because I know that's important, and the Left is now using more than the Government on transportation. But does she imagine any structural changes? In the alternative budget of the Left, the Left is increasing rail investment, measures to increase road safety, racial protection and more modernisation measures. We also propose to introduce 50 pst. discount on youth in public transport. Left rates on a more modern rail system by planning and launching several projects with new double tracks waiting in the intercity triangle in the East and measures reducing travel time on longer distances. Among the priority projects are the start-up of the construction of new Ski Station. This station which was granted 40 million by the Government. until 2007, was not completed due to market pressure, it was said. Now there's no pressure there. On the contrary, now there is a need for increased activity, and this project is just starting. Bets on the new Ringeriksbanen are important both locally and for shorter travel time on Bergensbanen. I do not understand and understand that SV has not gotten the Ringerik tunnel up to go in the time they have been in government. So I challenge Langeland to answer it a little bit. He fills his life with government, and therefore it would have been very interesting to hear about the Ringerix Tunnel. In the alternative budget of the Left, we propose 30 million. kr to bet on exactly the Ringerix course. The left aims to realize the intercity triangle by 2020 with 80-minute routes between Oslo and Halden/Lillehammer/Skien. Travel time Oslo-Trondheim and Oslo-Bergen is set for 4 hours, and Oslo-Kristiansand down to 3 hours. It's a demanding goal that we want to achieve. In recent years we have experienced record delays and adjustments on the railway. This development is unacceptable, and it's urgent to clean up. That's why my concern is great about what I could read in Technical Weekly, that it only works three and a half hours in the Oslo Tunnel per. night. When you think about the rigging and rigging of equipment, I'm worried about how slow this is actually going. The Council of State says that conditions do not improve until 2012, that the train commuters have to settle down on it. I think that's defensive. Developments within the railway are going in the wrong direction, despite the fact that the appropriations for operation and maintenance on the railway have been stablely high and have been a priority area for the Storting over time. I believe that there is a need for innovation in the railway sector. There must be a demand for the money that is granted at all times. The Left therefore proposes a new approach by placing the operation and maintenance of routes on competitive contracts with stricter requirements for uptime and safety. It will provide the Railway Agency with a powerful tool to ensure a high level of infrastructure quality. Competition is not new within the railway. The offer on Gjøvikbanen has been a success. The left wants to continue this success and that this also applies to the Kongswingerbahn. It will wait until after the next choice. The left will give priority to road safety. It may be one of the most important things we do in our transport policy. Therefore, the Left proposes to intensify work on better maintenance, physical midpoints, walking and cycling routes and racial protection on highways and tribal roads. There are many small projects out there that are planned and regulated, and it's just to get started. I can give the council good, planned walking and cycling projects both in Akershus and in other counties. In the Council of State's own home is 4 km of rv. 60 Olden–Innvik ready for launch. This is the time for now in these crisis packages. In addition, funds can be used quickly for the maximum necessary upgrading of railway stations, tunnels, which the representative Klinge mentioned here instead, securing level crossings, improved customer information, universal organisation, of which Langleand and the Christian People's Party, of course, are concerned, not to talk about racial protection. This is something that can be handled quickly. With regard to safe school roads, the Left, together with the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, have a proposal for a reward scheme for safe school roads. I know that there are many good projects around municipalities and counties that are not realized due to lack of money. Focusing on safe school paths is an important road safety measure and a lifestyle measure. Children should be able to go to school to a greater extent. In the end, I hope the Council of State can take the time to actually consider the opposition's proposal before they are rejected on the grounds that we did not propose it ourselves when we were in government four years ago, and that we are also heard about immediate action in these troubled economic times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e765	The representative's tendency is that we're not going to talk so much about the previous government, but I'm taking the chance anyway. The previous government said no to the lifting of "Murmansk". Now I see in the alternative budget of the Left that one criticises this government for too much passive attitude to emptying and raising wrecks along the coast, and that the Left increases the effort by 50 million. kr. The emptying of «Norvard» and «Welheim» cost several tens of millions of dollars. Then I'd like to ask the representative Tenden about the 50 million. kr represents an increased effort. How many wrecks does the representative think she can get emptied or raised for this sum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e774	I thank you for that question. The left is an environmental party. We're worried that this isn't going fast enough. So it is that the previous government was not in the golden age, like this government. We actually didn't have that much money to spend. We acted according to the rule of action, used what we could, and operated a responsible policy, which this government can benefit from. We're worried about the wrecks that lie along the coast. That's why we want to intensify that work. That is what is in that proposal. We hope that the Labour Party and Irene Johansen will support that proposal when it is later to vote here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e783	Unlike the representative Trend, I'm not so afraid to take a look at the story. I absolutely believe that the Left should do that, both in the case of the Bondevik I and Bondevik II Government. To this statement and the argument that you didn't have the same opportunity when you were in government to create a transport plan, I would say that the assumptions were the same for all the parties in 2004. There was only a lack of willingness to provide a good enough framework in the national transport plan. The left has had the Minister of Transport and ownership of the Ministry of Transport through Minister of Transport Dørum and Minister of Transport Skogsholm. That's the reality, whether you like it or not. But in the Left's proposal for a national transport plan, 8 billion dollars will be spent less in the period, and then my question to the representative is the Tende: where would the Left today have cut 8 billion kroner, and how would the situation be for Norwegian infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e793	I'm proud of the previous state councils. They got a lot done. What I regret now is that I have not used it more in the debates. But as I said from the pulpit instead, I had actually thought that we should look forward and not backward, but, as I said, I should have drawn up all the measures that the two councils put in place, among other things. competition and tendering, which I believe also the representative Sandberg thought it wise to do. So I trust that both the Bondevik I government and the Bondevik II government spent the money they thought they could spend in the situation they were in. I trust it. So now I see that we have more money to spend, and that's why the Left also spends more money on transportation. We re-prioritize within the rule of action, and we use more than the government does. We spend money when we have, and then we save when we don't feel that we can spend so much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e800	When it's about the Ringerix track, it's not on. That's absolutely right. Whenever possible in the future and in relation to the national transport plan, I cannot respond, of course. But what's certain is that the stake that this government has had on the railway, where we have doubled the effort compared to what the Left got when they were in position and had the Minister of Transport, is we reasonably sure will continue. Therefore, it is good that the left is not in the position that SV is currently in. But what worries me about the Left is that they are now involved in some of the things that the Progress Party is proposing, among other things. A strong commitment at new airports – clearly good climate policy – and strong commitment to several road projects are also clearly good climate policies. They're now on some things that they weren't already on. Finally, when it comes to privatisation, there is now a trend that there is a call for government – more state, more governance. Left goes the opposite way – they want more supply, more modernisation, as we call it, more privatisation and more market. How many in the Railway Works and other places should be upgraded this time for the Left’s market profile to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e813	There were a lot of things here, but I'm going to try to answer everything. As far as the Ringerix Railway is concerned, I want to say that here you need 30 million. kr in planning materials and the 30 million. I actually think Hallgeir H. Langeland should get in while he's still in a majority government. I know that Buskerud SV was on me to ask if we could not contribute, so the representative has a job to do. In the case of airports, I went to the elections on no to a third runway at the Gardermoen. That's what I'm going to keep. I'm excited about what the representative Langeland is doing in this majority government to do with bonding on the Gardermo. There he also has a job to do. He could say we're dropping the third runway, we're not tying, so we're making it easier and more predictable for the residents in the vicinity of the Gardermo. So for privatisation and outsourcing. Yeah, we actually believe that we can save money on it. We've shown that with the Gjøvik track, and I hope Hallgeir H. Langeland thinks it's good that we've got that path up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e824	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e827	There are some mixed feelings I have been looking forward to the debate on the 2009 CAP budget. Norway is like the rest of the world now inside exceptionally uncertain economic times. Increased efforts on public investment and maintenance have always been a traditional counter-cyclical policy in economic downturns. The situation therefore gives us an extra reason to increase our efforts. on road and rail upgrading – and probably at a much lower price than in recent years. This is good, because better transport infrastructure is strongly sought throughout the country. The back of the medal is, of course, the prospect of higher unemployment as a result of global recession. This will also frame Norway, even with the action package from the Government. Low unemployment is a superior goal for the Government. At the same time, financial policy must facilitate interest rates down to a level that provides the most secure economy for people. These concerns will form the basis for the fiscal policy package announced by the Government in January/February. Unsafe economic times should not be allowed to overshadow the fact that the Government has proposed a 2009 budget for trade that is among the best in history. Including the 2009 budget proposal, the Government has proposed to grant approximately 10.7 billion in 2009 more to road and rail than the level of the last 2006 budget proposal from the Government of Bondevik II. As the first government, the government has fulfilled Stoltenberg II, and even over-filled, collecting the financial framework for both road and rail in the national transport plan for the four-year period 2006-2009. Overdraft policy was the review melody of the party which was not part of the Storting's ambitious decision to increase the scope of the current national transport plan. This has been bitten by the critics. For the period 2006-2009, proposals have been made to allow approximately 1.9 billion in 2009 more to road and rail than the overall financial framework adopted by the Stortinget in 2004, some 1.3 billion more to road and about 600 million more to rail. kr more for the railway. For the 2009 budget year, proposals have been made for both road and rail to allow around DKK 1.2 billion more than the annual framework of the national transport plan. In addition, the paperwork for public transport has been proposed to double from 2008 to 2009, from 161.7 million. NOK 323.4 million. kr. The government's investment is balanced where climate and environment are also taken into account. As the first government in many years, the government of Stoltenberg II has also taken part in the maintenance of Norwegian transport infrastructure. The appropriations for road and rail operation and maintenance over four years have been proposed to increase by around DKK 1.9 billion more than the financial envelope in the national transport plan. I have received a lot of feedback that increasing efforts in maintenance is something people notice and appreciate, whether it concerns the laying of new asphalt over the whole country or the repair of the railway network in the Oslo area. The last is decisive for train traffic in this area and throughout the country. With the exception of the Progress Party, the opposition parties have made relatively moderate proposals for changes to the 2009 CAP. I am quite happy with that, because it means that there is a broad political agreement on the major lines of the social policy. I'm not going to spend a lot of time looking back. That's future we can do something about. I find it a bit striking, however, that both the Right and the Left have much more money to spend on trade now when they are in opposition than when they were in position. For four years under the Government of Bondevik II, the Right Minister of Finance and the Left Minister of Transport had. It is not easy to track a monthly increase in road or rail efforts and public transport for these four years. The operating level for the period 2002–2005 versus the period 2006–2009 speaks for itself. The action space now and during this period has been the same, about $8 billion adjusted for activity. So it's wrong when the representative Tenden and others claim that the previous government had less money to spend, and a penny was worth more than a penny in that period today. This is not possible to talk away from the same creative explanation. The government is making the biggest investment in the renewal and expansion of the railways in recent times. The Government's proposal to grant railway concessions shall contribute to environmental law and good transport solutions for both passenger and freight traffic. Safety and good operational stability of daily train services are of the highest priority. The main challenge now facing me on the rail side is to manage day-to-day operation, which can ensure better and more operationally stable train traffic. In recent years, it has had major problems in maintaining timetables and has had a negative trend towards achieving the targets set for punctuality and regularity of individual train sections. The problems have been greatest in train traffic in the Oslo area, which is mainly due to the major works on the West Corridor and many technical errors in the railway system, especially in the Oslo Tunnel. The repair work in the tunnel, on Oslo S and on Skøyen is now well under way, and it is proposed in the 2009 budget for 220 million. NOK to continue this work. I am very confident that this will gradually contribute to a much better quality of train traffic in the Oslo area, especially after the work on the West Corridor was completed in 2011. The demand for rail freight has increased considerably and the capacity of the most central parts of the network is about to be detonated. The draft budget therefore concentrates on prioritising the construction of new and extension of existing cross-rails and strengthening of southern rail electricity supply in order to make better use of the capacity of the new Ganddal freight terminal. Furthermore, the construction of new crossing tracks on the Eastfold Railway and Gjøvikbana will be continued and started in order to strengthen freight traffic on the Bergensbana and on the Nordlandsbana, at the same time as plans for the construction of several crossing tracks have been made. In the submission of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the Government will present a more comprehensive strategy for rail freight and what measures are needed to increase the capacity of the main freight transport routes. The construction of new double tracks around the major cities and in the intercity triangle is a priority for passenger traffic in order to increase capacity, reduce travel time and improve the operational stability of train traffic. These are large investment projects, with high value also for freight. The government has launched large railway facilities involving double-track development in the West Corridor from Oslo and between Sandnes and Stavanger. In 2009, the work on these facilities will be continued with the most rational progress possible, as well as the launching of new railway installations involving double-track development between Barkåker and Tønsberg and the Gevingåsen railway tunnel. There are two very long-distance railway projects here that reduce travel times for the train passengers on the Westfold Railway and the Trønderbahna, which finally become a reality. In the 2009 budget, it is also seen of plantains, among others. further development of double tracks on the west fold track, on the east fold track between Oslo and Ski, and on the Dovrebana between Eidsvoll and Hamar. I am satisfied with the level that the government has achieved on the road budget for 2009. The total budget is approximately DKK 1.2 billion above the annual framework level of the Storting decision on the national transport plan 2006–2015. Over the four years of the planning period, the road budget has been allocated approximately DKK 1.3 billion more than the plan frame in NTP. The government has found it entirely necessary to increase its efforts to operate and maintain within the road sector. There is no doubt that the need for maintenance was seriously underestimated in the national transport plan 2006–2015. Moreover, recent developments have been a strong price rise both within functional contracts and within asphalt. In addition, the growth in road traffic over the period has been much higher than the forecasts used in the current NTP. I am aware, of course, of the great lag behind the capital, but will at the same time point out that, in my opinion, the data base for this seems to be too poor. I therefore want to take the initiative in a new and wide review of the maintenance run. Thus, to determine the extent to which the permits must be maintained, one will have a better say in order to retain the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the capital of the city. With the 2009 draft budget, all major investment projects that were planned to be launched in the 2006-2009 Roadmap of the State have already started, or will be launched in 2009. The exception is a few projects that cannot be covered by the promise due to a lack of plan clearance or that the arrangement for funding is not finally settled. There is reason to believe that the strong rise in prices we have seen in the road sector over the last few years will flatten out so that the money that is going to be cleared will be built up. In this context, I will also note that the State Road Service has a strong focus on contract strategy, with a view to increasing competition and lower prices. Security is an overriding objective of transport policy. I look very seriously at the many serious openings on the roads. In order to reverse the negative turnout this year and to facilitate a further decline in the number of fatalities and severe injuries, the Government is strengthening its commitment to safer action through a composite and targeted road safety package in the 2009 Road Budget. This investment includes, inter alia: near a doubling of the funds for specific road safety measures. A total of more than DKK 1 billion shall be used in 2009 for such targeted investment measures along the existing path. The concrete prevention measures against traffic accidents include: promises for new and safer roads and immediate actions following road safety inspections. I see time is running out, President. I'd rather draw myself a three-minute post and come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e884	It is that time can also run out of Moss Airport Smoking if we don't get to change the airport's framework conditions. Since this budget is a preliminary budget and is replaced by at least a few other editions, I would rather ask about something that requires political action, which does not cost a krona, and that is to change the framework conditions for Moss Airport Smoking. It is true that there is a warning about a passenger ceiling in the concession granted in 2004, but this government has made a passenger roof out of it, and there is a manifest imbalance between the opening time at the aerodrome and the passenger ceiling set. Will the Council of State ensure that Moss Airport Smoking has competitive conditions under which to operate? It is currently the only airport in Norway with a passenger roof, and it makes it difficult to operate in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e891	The passenger took place under the previous government, a government that was held alive by the Progress Party, and where the Progress Party could have taken many initiatives if they wanted to do something about it. The passenger compartment is probably – I assume – based on the handicaps of the local environment that exist when operating an aerodrome. On the initiative of the Ministry of Transport, a letter came to us from the County Municipality, Rygge Airport and the municipalities of the Eastfold area. That letter shall be answered. When it comes to capacity, it's well known the decision made by the previous government. It is the builder, manager and operator of the aerodrome that is responsible for ensuring that an aerodrome has an extension that is in line with the underlying operating instructions. That being said, I have said that I am busy having a good dialogue with Rygge Airport, and I see the importance of maintaining Rygge Airport. There are still 300000 passengers up to the passenger roof, and we need to have a good dialogue in time to solve the challenges that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e902	This Council of States has had a development that is remarkable and regrettable. The self-crust has become dominant. Stoltenberg's commitment to listening to the opposition has become completely absent, but perhaps more serious is that she has been charged with the use of words and respect for the Storting. In a debate on Monday, I mentioned that this government, among other things. has received more money in the creation of Mesta. Then the state councils answered: ‘there is no one who is able to find documentation and present where the savings are’.» [[...]] Two years earlier, the same Council of State of the LO State Antitrust Conference stated the following words: ‘The establishment of Mesta led to the full postponement of all production tasks. As indicated in the 2007 State Budget, the competitive outsourcing is expected to give an annual win of 580 million kroner from 2007 onwards.’ Which of the government councils will the Stortinge listen to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e919	Following the presentation of the State budget in 2007, I have asked to see where the savings are. I trusted that what was said by the previous government, and which was like a confirmed truth, could be verified and submitted, so that I could say that here we have hundreds of millions on the road. I have not received that submission. I'm sorry, but no one is able to put the verification and where the funds are. Then I must also be honest with Stortinget. It's not arrogance, it's honesty from the Council of State. I want to see where the money is, where the activity has increased. Unfortunately, it has been very difficult to detect. I would like to return to the matter at a later date. And, as I said, it's not expression of arrogance, but it's simply the facts, as I experience the situation, at a time when I'm working on sewing together a new national transport plan and want to get an overview of where the funds are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e927	It goes towards the end of a four-year period of red-green government and with the Council of State Navarsete on the road. I have repeatedly commended the Minister for being offensive, and I stand by that. At the same time, I have to note that the Government has shown very little willingness to meet the opposition. All good proposals are put to the vote on pure reflexes, and when written questions are sent to the Council of State, I have in fact experienced that before the reply to the representative, it is stated in the newspapers. We had a debate about renewal earlier this week that was almost a boycott operation from the red-green representatives. The councils had to meet, but it was nothing new. It was almost wasted time. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council satisfied with the climate of cooperation created between the opposition and the position in transport this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e936	Yes, I feel that I speak well when necessary. There's a lot of questions from the opposition that I'm trying to answer in the best way possible. Regardless of this or other government, there will be the majority who decide matters on the basis of political preferences. I'm sorry that many of the issues that are raised from the opposition are not possible to go in for a party in position, but it's about political disunity, and that's what I'm assuming is permissible. That's the way it has to be. So that gives us a position, and that's why we have an opposition. I see the opposition as ongoing and eager to promote culture – more eager than they were when they put themselves in position, but it is also part of the political game and system. It'll always be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e945	I have understood it so that the government is now running and working on a number of immediate actions, actions on the road and on the track that can be started quickly. We in the Left have been working on this for a while. It's a laborious job, especially when you don't have an entire department behind you that can help us in that job. So my question to the Council of State is, is it any good for the Left to continue this job? Will the Council of State hear and accept the good immediate actions and projects on which the Left is located?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e950	Yes, political work is always useful, and I'm going to listen to both the Left and the other opposition parties. We had a very good and constructive meeting at the Prime Minister's office with the opposition party, and, just to underline it again, I learn a lot from the recordings that come from the opposition. The questions that come, we have to go into issues, and I think it's an important part of the living democracy we have. And of course, I can't promise that all the proposals will be taken along and get multiples, because that's also part of the political system, as I said. But I'll promise to listen and bring what's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e955	The Council of State said in its statement that this is an offensive budget, which means that one is well prepared to meet in 2009. It is strange that new press releases and new faxes from government offices are constantly being received, but you just have to wait a little and come back. Then there is a lot of evidence that someone with this budget may not be as well prepared to meet the challenges we face in 2009. I also record that the Council of State always boasts about everything that is done on road maintenance. It is good that a lot is happening on road maintenance, but how can it be done, when you now say that you are over-fulfilling, and that you are concerned about following up road maintenance, that the need for road maintenance is now increasing by over DKK 1 billion, despite the “fantastic” effort of the Government? Or is it perhaps that it is not a fantastic bet, but a aftermath that is so great that even with additional appropriations, the maintenance allowance continues to increase, despite the fact that the Minister of Transport always stands on the pulpit and boasts of how much has been done on the road maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e962	I find reason to be content with what the government has done both in maintenance, on the road, on the railways and elsewhere, because we have had a strong commitment. We have seen trade on the agenda of the public change of words, and we have had a strong commitment to trade. I also said in my post that I asked some questions about the system we have to measure the lag. I do that because the first video from the former road director to me, in the years I've been sitting, was that the first 300 million. kr you will have to go to maintenance – then one would be in a way balanced – and after that, it has developed with such a hurry up that I simply ask questions about the basis. That's what I want to go into, and that's why I want to get a bigger job on this, also to get a safer mapping. I want us to keep up with developments on the road, and also to take back the maturity of course, and then at least we have to make sure that the basis we have is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e967	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e970	The daily newspaper has a column every day where they interview familiar and unknown people and ask questions.What is your bad environmental conscience? The answers are often that they drive too much car, or that they travel too much by plane. We live in a long-distance country and are completely dependent on good, safe transport opportunities to live and work in the districts. In large parts of my own state, Hedmark, the car is the only transport option for someone. That is why I do not think the heathmarks should have a bad conscience because they are driving a car. We need the car to get to important service and community functions. Business needs good roads to reach the markets where products from districts are to be sold. The government is now doubling its efforts towards road safety in this budget. On the most accident-affected roads, there will be the construction of a mine, the installation of side decks, the use of a containment area and other centre markings. It is also important to bring forward bets on walking and cycling routes. The government is betting on the railways, which will also contribute to better and safer road traffic. The previous government shut down Kongsvingerbanen to Stockholm, and this council reopened it. On Tuesday 2 December, the State Road Administration presented a preliminary analysis of the traffic situation to date this year – 236 people lost their lives on Norwegian roads in 2008. These are accidents caused by high speed, dangerous passing by, driving in a drug-induced condition, inattentiveness, faults with the cars and difficult road conditions. This only underlines the importance of investing in road safety. This means, among other things: improved driver training, more roadside checks and stronger reactions to reckless and aggressive drivers. I am pleased that the Government in the budget will present its own proposal on the development and financing of RV. 2 on the route Kongsvinger-Slomarka. The clearance of the Riksantikvaren is now available and the plant can start during 2009. I'm really excited about that. Two of the parcels on the E6 north of Gardermoen will be completed in 2009. It is important that the start of road installations can be continued and that the progress of new E6 along Mjøsa is maintained. It's expensive to rig down machines. Aviation is a central part of the transport service, in particular in parts of District Norway. The arrangement that airports with profits pay for the unprofitable airports is a carrier in a good nationwide offer. The Gardermoen is Norway's main aerodrome. It is important that the revenues of Gardermoen are not weakened. It will go beyond the airports in the districts, on which the business community and the population of our long-term country are so dependent. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to bind the third runway. The Progress Party wants to privatise the major airports. They will eliminate cross-subsidies, which of course will lead to a massive closure of state regional airports. I am asking the people and the business community in District Norway to notice the dramatic and, to my knowledge, anti-district proposals. Avinor has high investment needs in the period up to 2012 for both maintenance, new capacity and regulatory security measures. The government's draft budget addresses this situation and contributes to the economic armaments of solving these tasks. People who have properties in areas that are bound for expansion come in a difficult situation from the time the property is bonded to the start of the development. I am very pleased that we are today taking part in the redemption of a number of dwellings in the future route on Rv. 23 in the smoke in Buskerud. I'm glad that the government in this way shows understanding and feeling in the difficult situation these individuals have ended up in. The Council of States must be commended for her contribution. Traffic is a fundamental prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use. The government is following up what they promised in the National Transport Plan. It's still very much missing, but at least let's be satisfied with what's done, and then stick together about what's to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e998	I'll try in ten minutes to pick up a few, but important things. I choose to start with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, and then I will talk about the handling of U-864, the submarine that has mercury in it. I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party at the Innst. S. No 193 for 2006–2007, from last Stortinget dealt with the submarine case, and I quote from there: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party stress that, as long as the case has been known, the Progress Party has pointed out that the removal of the mercury load is the best solution and should therefore be implemented.’ This was what we thought before the Government of spring 2007 stopped the implementation of the resolution on cover, and the Progress Party believes it is still. We believe that the matter of final handling of U-864 must be dealt with by Stortinget, not as a matter of notification, but as a matter of final settlement. We are pleased that we have received the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on a proposal to get this matter to the Stortinget – proposal No. 15 is what we're talking about. The report from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, which contains recommended measures to combat the spread of mercury pollution from U-864, concludes on page 3: ‘The framework considers cover to be the least risky measure and therefore recommends covering wrecks and contaminated sediments. The Coastal Authority has given decisive emphasis to the environmental risk in its assessments, but sees that other elements can also be emphasised before final decision is taken.» This case has large and important dimensions. The solution chosen in relation to 67 tonnes of mercury in the sea outside Fedje in Hordaland is a national case. Government and grossing-up must not just assess risk, government and accumulation must manage risk. Fear and reputation are central to this. Fear and reputation are not covered. Therefore, the Progress Party still believes that the submarine has to go up and the mercury has to go away. So to the Ministry of Transport, and first to Moss Airport Rygge, which I just had a line exchange about with the Council of State. We believe that the roof should and should be removed. We in the Progress Party are pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party, which probably left the basis for a kind of roof through a reporting obligation in the concession given directly from the Government of Bondevik II to Rygge, is now concluding on the proposal of the Advance Party to remove the roof. We want a level playing field for private airports. We believe that a level playing field for airports at Rygge and Torp must include opening hours and the enforcement of opening times in relation to random delays that are not perceived as unreasonable, and we therefore propose to specifically remove the passenger ceiling. Some words about urban railways and public transport. Several cities are in the start-up and planning phase for the construction of rail-based collective actions. Progress parties concerned that the development of such collective solutions in and near the largest cities should be coordinated with the Railway Agency in order to ensure efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport solutions and good project and cost management. The Progress Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left support us in this view and are in favour of our proposal No. 26 that this must be coordinated with the Railway Agency. We notice that this isn't the right hand side. In return, we are pleased that the Right and Left support the Progress Party's proposal that the Bergen urban railway should be coordinated with the Bergen railway. We were alone on that proposal in 2008, but we are pleased that several parties are now sharing our views. We notice that there is no Christian People's Party here. So they are for coordination in other cities, but not in Bergen. So some words about external financing of infrastructure, or in good and clear Norwegian: the use of tolls. In this budget, tolls amount to DKK 5.7 billion for investment projects. The government's own-funded investment is NOK 6.4 billion. This is no additional funding; this is one of the two main pillars of the Government’s financing of road construction in Norway. In addition, the drivers also have to pay 290 million. kr., used for the operation of public transport in Oslo. The government’s own contribution through specific grants to public transport is 415 million. kr. Here, therefore, the Government has acquired a new funding player to finance the operation of public transport. The government pays the drivers for the operation of the bus and track. To date, this government has submitted toll financing projects totalling NOK 56 billion. If we take out Oslopackakt 3, which is the big one, and which is 42 billion kroner alone, there are still projects for approx. $20 billion, with a toll ratio of 68 p.m., where the drivers, in addition to the amount of 14 billion kroner, will have to pay $5.5 billion in collection costs and interest. It's extremely expensive for the drivers when the government forces them to buy their way on the payroll. Tolls are 40 pst. payment supplements. To date, this government does not have other tools in its financing fund for road and rail development than annual government budgets and the issuing of ever-increasing toll taxes. In these days, the Government is selling a Christmas package that will only be opened in February, where extra funds are promised for investments, among others. road and rail. It is important, and the need is great. It is strange, however, that there must be a crisis – perhaps the most difficult economic challenge facing the world and Norway in perhaps 80 years – in order to provide the necessary funding for necessary investments in road and rail. The country needs tools to ensure modern infrastructure at normal times. In the last Monday interpellation debate, I raised the question of the use of new financing tools to link the large capital of the state with the great need for investment in the transport sector. Then the Minister for Transport said, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘There is no doubt that it is both the best and the cheapest way to strengthen efforts in the field of transport.’ She then referred to ‘a sharp increase in the loops of both road and rail’. There's a lot of doubt about it. And let me add that I've just shown, through the numbers for what the drivers actually have to pay when they're charged toll taxes, that at least it's not cheap for the drivers. For the sake of order: the Progress Party will propose the cancellation and assumption of toll companies’ debts in the final retirement of the 2008 budget. Let me therefore stress that the growth in road and rail by the Progress Party in 2009 is not compensation for the loss of tolls, but a real increase. There is a great desire to use financial tools to enable Norway to invest in its own wealth, in its own assets, in roads and railways. Many people point out that a number of tools can be used, as the Progress Party calls for. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is unnecessary to finance the tasks of the State in the transport sector with toll taxes. The Minister for Transport also said in Monday's debate: ‘So the main challenge is to get more resources in the form of money. We cannot organise ourselves away from this starting point." That's exactly what we can do, and that's exactly what this government doesn't get. When the Progress Party wants infrastructure funds, debt financing through state loans, the conversion of agencies into companies, Public Private Cooperation, public development companies and project financing, it is precisely in order to set up an efficient link between state capital – of which there is enough, it is available in search and cabin – and all the roads and railway projects that are in line for funding. It is an organisation of financial solutions to enable Norway to have an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport network, modern roads and modern railways in 20 years, with clear, predictable and long-term funding without the use of tolls. This has not been understood by the Minister of Transport and the Government, or they will not understand it. Many others outside the Government and outside the Storting have understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1071	First, a few comments for a couple of articles. Torstein Rudihagen says we spend more money than ever. That's probably right, and I also think it's right on my side to say that it's nice to follow up your own plans. But the point is, as we have pointed out, that the money does not go far enough, because we have had a huge increase in costs. It also shows the list of 29 projects that we have received from the Department, to which it has been referred several times today. If you look at the actual project, you'll see that it's from all over the country, and it's $1.1 billion. So that's probably the fulfillment of the plan we've criticized is not present. When it comes to OPS and project funding, we've had it as a topic so many times that I think I'll wait for that debate to NTP. I actually have a profitable hope that we will have it put on the agenda, since all the agencies have actually now said that this is an arrangement they want to go further. But I'm more inclined to address the current situation that's occupying us all. Quite recently, we've got ominous figures from the Machine Entrepreneurs' Association. They say the industry has changed dramatically in the negative direction. Unemployment in the industry from November 2007 to November 2008 has increased by 70 pst. Nearly 50 pst. by the companies expect to cancel people, and they have a very poor order reserve. They fear bankruptcy, closures and loss of competence. They are also critical of the lack of immediate action; it is simply too slow. If I did not understand Jenny Klinge from the Center Party completely wrong, she was also impatient about the progress of what is being presented by the Government. In any case, I have faced several times the Council of State Navarsete and the Government with this both in written form and by taking it up here in the Chamber in Question Time – whether plans have been drawn up. Are you prepared for the situation that we have seen throughout the harvest? The first time I brought this up with the Council of State was in the Questionnaire on 22 October, but I do not get any specific answers. The maintenance service has been highlighted several times here today, and you should think that you did not need so much time to plan for which maintenance tasks you could immediately solve. So I hope we might get a somewhat more specific response from the Council of State later in the debate. In the case of the railway, I will be allowed to attach a few comments to it. One of the things that is happily agreed in this committee is that we want a forward-looking rail offer in Norway for the Norwegian people and for business. We see that there are going to be strong demands for mobility in labour and business and in most people, and that we in Norway obviously need to build a modern society like all other countries around us in Europe. That is why we had a majority comment in 2007 that gave us the expectation that we would have a decision-making basis for the national transport plan that would provide us with security for the course we were going to take. For the time being, it is just before NTP is presented, it was, however, slightly exposed again – one report has been issued by the press as a death sentence on the high-speed train in Norway. However, the issue is that it was a report that would measure the cost-effectiveness of high-speed trains as climate action. We don't need long reports and seminars on that. We know that there are a number of other measures that are more cost-effective. We can just go on allowances like the best element, and we know that we'd get more for the money. That's not why you build a high-speed rail network. It is to serve Norway as a nation from a 100-year perspective, and therefore we hope that we will have a decision-making basis for NTP that we can trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1094	Coastal Norway is of great importance for the value creation of the country, and much of the value creation takes place along the coast and depends on the infrastructure there. Fishing ports are a central instrument for marine value creation, and measures in the fairways are important both for maritime safety and for accessibility. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to a commitment to the development of fishing ports and fairways. In the budget, the Government proposes to increase the funding for the state development of fishing ports and ferries by 13 million. kr to reach the planning framework of NTP. This comes as an addition to the promise in the current year's budget of 105 million. kr. But the government doesn't stop there. We also propose the start of Stamsund port in the municipality of Vestvågø. This comes as an extra effort in relation to the planning framework. Overall, this means that the Government more than meets the planning framework for fishing ports and fairways. In addition to the appropriations for fishing ports and ferries, we propose to grant grants to municipal fishing ports of 30.8 million. kr in 2009. In this context, let me comment on a request from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is mentioned in the budget position. These parties want a more concrete action plan for fishing ports, which should include a specific priority for major projects. I believe this has already been given to Stortinget. Let me remind you that the Coastal Agency is promoting a four-year programme of action following the treatment of the National Transport Plan by the Storting. For each financial year, the Stortinget is presented to the Coastal Authority's annual plan as an annex to the budget proposal. Specific priorities shall be set out here. The minority's concerns would have been addressed in this way. The Committee has in its opinion several comments relating to oil protection. The 2009 draft budget substantially strengthens the appropriations for oil protection by increasing 88 million. kr. The increase that we're proposing is in addition to the increase that we introduced into this year's budget of $25 million. kr. I also remember that in the revised 2007 national budget, we reestablished the main depot in Fedje at a cost of 29 million. kr in order to fine the earlier decision of the Bondevik II Government on downgrading. The proposal for 2009 provides for a follow-up to the Coastal Coastal Oil Protection Equipment Status Report. With a continuation of that level also in 2010, we are in line with what the Swedish Coastal Agency has recommended. In the context of the «Server» evaluation, the Progress Party promotes a proposal that all actions in the public sector related to accidents and emissions, routinely as part of a permanent evaluation process, are also audited by the National Audit Office. I can tell you that the Coastal Plant evaluates state oil protection operations, such as. the actions following ‘Rocknes’ and ‘Server’. In addition, the ‘Server’ was subject to external evaluation. As the Progress Party is probably familiar with, the Riksrevision works as the Board of Directors of the Storting. So the government can't impose such a mission on the National Audit Office. The minority in the Committee is concerned about the follow-up to wrecks. That's what I'm wondering. This government has done more in this field than any government has ever done before. In 2007 we got rid of the wreck after ‘Nordvard’ in Moss. The wreck after «Welheim» outside Florø was emptied this year, and work is now also being done to handle the wreck after «Murmansk» in the municipality of Hasvik in Finnmark. The task of removing the wreck during these days is to submit a tender. Of course, the budgetary implications will come back to us in an appropriate way in 2009. Last, but not least, work is now being done on the follow-up to the Coastal Plant's proposal on the handling of U-864 submarine missiles, located outside Fedje in Hordaland. And here, too, we're going to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. The government's commitment to oil protection, ports and fairways in the 2009 budget, together with a new national transport plan and the new Port and Water Water Act, will strengthen maritime transport, contribute positively to port development and, at the same time, will hit a blow to our climate. The budget for 2009 shows that it is implemented by the Government. The budget for next year will facilitate increased value creation in Coastal Norway, contribute to a safe and sustainable maritime road and, in particular, strengthen coastal oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1121	The councils themselves were inside the submarine U-864. It's just the expression "appropriately" that makes us a little bit worried. It's too precise in our view. I would like to ask you more precisely: is there going to be a decision, at least an attitude from the department before Christmas? Will the Council of State and the Ministry stress what the Coastal Agency itself has pointed out, and which I referred to, that ‘other elements can be emphasised before final decision is taken’? I justify that the risk assessment contained in the report made by the Coastal Agency is, to a certain extent, okay, but it's a bit narrower, to put it mildly. It is primarily related to the operation itself and the risk of the operational intervention in relocating and raising the submarine. It is clear that there are a number of other elements that need to be emphasised before final decision is taken. I would like a confirmation that you have a broad perspective when you make this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1128	Firstly, I would like to say that with regard to the time course for the treatment of further handling of U-864, I do not see that the government comes to a conclusion on this issue since New Year, but we are, of course, working hard and as soon as we manage to reach a conclusion. It is clear that we will focus on the report submitted by the Coastal Agency. We've now spent nearly 60 million dollars. kr to get the decision base, and then we also have to go through it carefully. The professional recommendations are very clear and suggest that there is a higher risk of raising the submarine than by covering it. Then it is quite right what is stated in the Coastal Works report that we can also assess other factors here. One of the factors that we need to have a very careful political assessment is whether you are willing to accept a higher risk and how high a risk you may be willing to accept. There are questions that the Government will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1135	Since I was a bit critical of another member of this government earlier in the debate, I'm going to try to be a little pleasant now. I think Helga Pedersen has cooperated very well with Stortinget and with the Committee in the case of U-864. She stopped the matter, sent the matter back, and we got the material that is now available, which is on her table for assessment. She's supposed to be bragging about that. I am a little concerned about the reputations and assessments that many in the fishing industry have made about this. That it is technically possible to leave it, and that it is technically possible to lift it, we have now received a confirmation. It's a cost question. But it is also a reputation for an important industry for Norway. In that perspective, the difference may be less significant in terms of cost. Then I would like to ask the Council of State, which is not only the Minister for the Coast but also the Minister for Fisheries: will she let the heart of the Minister for Fisheries decide this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1144	When I'm going to make a recommendation for the rest of the Government and then for the Storting, I'm going to have used both the heart and brain in this case. The assessments of reputation are also not a very simple operation. It is clear that the reputation of Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industry depends on good environmental management of this matter, and I feel very confident that we will be able to handle it. I don't think you can point out any evaluations of reputation that are explicitly related to one or the other solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1149	We have an offensive coastal and fisheries minister, and I particularly welcome the solution for Stamsund port. I'm very grateful for that. That's another thing I'd like to mention, and that's City Ship Tunnel. We're experiencing a lot of commitment for City Ship Tunnel, and there's a lot of tension along the coast that's wondering what's going to be the final conclusion. The opposition has gathered to ask that we get a case for Stortinget as soon as possible, each in the spring of 2009. What we're worried about is what's in the proposition – and what's said – is that you have to come back in 2009. It may mean that the elections will be over, that there may be a campaign, or that a new government will be held responsible. There's a lot of money here. My question is, do we get a case about City Ship Tunnel in the spring of 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1156	Here I just have to say that, along the coast, you probably have to live under stress as far as the City Tunnel is concerned. We are now conducting a KS1 assessment of the project, and we must be correct in relation to the processes that the type of project is going to undergo. This is after all a project that has a cost framework of at least NOK 1 billion. So here I just have to stick to what is announced in the budget proposal, namely that we come back to the Stortinget with a briefing on the matter at the earliest in 2009. And no matter what the conclusion is after that round, the next government will have to somehow live to deal with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1161	I also want to talk about the City Ship Tunnel. The Council of State mentioned in its statement today the importance of fairways. We in the Left are very concerned that the City Ship Tunnel will be realized, because it will be an important fairway. 27 November this year, the Left, the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are tabling a proposal here in the Chamber to: «Amendment of the VAT Act § 16, first paragraph, No. 13 in such a way that the construction of ship tunnels is treated in the same way as other infrastructure constructions such as roads, bridges and tunnels’. The parties to the Government voted in favour of this excellent proposal. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State explain why a ship's tunnel and an ordinary road tunnel cannot be assimilated in the value added tax context? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1175	I think it's important that we take things in the right order now. First, we need to carry out the KS1 evaluation of the project. Then we'll have to decide if we're going further with the project City Ship Tunnel. And then we might get back to all the practicalities and technicalities around any implementation of this project. I think it's starting at the wrong end to start with the tax aspects of the project. First we have to decide whether this is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1180	As you know, the rescue company yesterday decided that they would go in to lay down two of the manned boats along our coast. It might be interesting to ask the Council of State how she views the situation and how she will deal with it in relation to our coastal preparedness in 2009. Furthermore, I agree that it is good that some things happen when it comes to oil protection. But we have been made aware that parts of the oil protection equipment that you have today are contrary to the law on health, the environment and the safety of those who are going to do that work. I could imagine that the Council of State could confirm, or hopefully preferably deny that it is the case that part of the equipment you want to use under oil protection is not in line with the law you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1187	Firstly, I fully agree with all those who believe that the Rescue Company is carrying out a very important task along the coast, not least in relation to search and rescue. At the same time, I am concerned that the resources provided by the Rescue Company must also be seen in the context of other resources in this area, including: the escalation of the rescue helicopter preparedness provided to this government. The government is also committed to ensuring the Save Company a good economy. This year, the rescue company from the State, from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Culture will have a total of about 111 million. kr. In 2009, the State allocation will be increased to 173 million. kr. So there's going to be a significant rise to next year. In the case of oil protection equipment and the consideration of HMS, we are now engaged in a large-scale replacement of oil protection equipment, and I assume that the Coastal Plant will take into account the HMS when it comes to the acquisition of new equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1197	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1200	As a nation, we in Norway have a goal of being a leader in the marine sector. It is linked to our natural assumptions, such as large-scale productive sea areas and a long-range coast. This has a background in history and long traditions in fisheries and aquaculture. In view of this, the marine sector has been designated as one of the five areas of activity of the Soria Moria Declaration. Fisheries and aquaculture policy shall contribute to the long-term and sustainable creation of value for the whole country, while contributing to the fair distribution of our natural resources. Fisheries and aquaculture are an important supplier of seafood to countries around the world. We will facilitate the provision of safe and healthy seafood by the fisheries and aquaculture industry with quality that will enable consumers in domestic and foreign demand for Norwegian seafood. Therefore, it is as important to develop the maritime route as highway No. 1 and get more goods over to the sea. This government also wants the country to have a well-developed infrastructure for safe and efficient transport and, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has contributed to increased maritime safety in particular in the northern regions by establishing the territorial waters of Vardø to Røst, establishing the traffic centre in Vardø and strengthening international cooperation. We are also concerned about improving oil preparedness and its dimension based on risk assessments. Increased Russian oil cargo increases the attention on the northern areas and a 24-hour towing boat capacity has been established in North Norway. From 2010 onwards, a strengthening of the towing gear will be introduced in North Norway. Oil preparedness has been strengthened, and we are proposing a further increase of 88 million. kr in 2009. That's what I call north-area bet. Oil emissions may have several causes and sources. Old shipwreck may constitute a significant pollution hazard. The appropriations for fishing ports and ferries increased by 105 million. SEK in the 2008 budget, and we are now proposing a further increase of 13 million. kr in the 2009 budget, so that we will reach the NTP planning framework. In addition, 30 million is proposed. kr for start-up of Stamsund port in the municipality of Vestvågøy in the Nordic region. Norway will and shall have a competitive maritime transport operation with efficient ports and transport corridors, a high level of safety and a high level of oil protection. The need for efficient transport by industry has increased significantly as globalisation progresses. Norway aims to increase maritime transport, inter alia: for environmental reasons. These objectives are consistent with the objectives of the EU. A well-developed and efficient transport network is essential for the competitiveness, value added and employment of business. In the development of fishing ports, priority shall be given to projects of major importance for the national value creation of the fishing industry. But it is also important to give priority to the needs of fishing ports in smaller, local communities – this is because we want viable communities, we want the houses along the coast to have light, and we want to use the whole country. There are also many who have engaged in the Stad tunnel, not least it is a very large local commitment. I think the Council of State has explained this in a good way here today during the exchange of lines. There has also been a strong local commitment to oil protection along the South Coast. The local exposures are to be taken seriously. We have. Therefore, there is an overall committee that wants the Government to come back with a plan for further escalation of the tug capacity, especially along the South Coast. Then the representative Jan Sahl of the Christian People's Party, who also comes from Northern Ireland, has been dissatisfied with the efforts made in the transport sector in Northern Ireland. I just want to mention some projects that have been received with great joy in our county. Among other things, there are: of 44 million. kr for continuation of moloreparation in the municipality of Laukvik in the municipality of Vågan. It's set at 10 million. kr for the completion of the development project in the fishing port facilities in Værøy. It's set at $15 million. kr to start the molar separation in Andenes in the municipality of Andøy. As I said before, it is invested in Stamsund port by 30 million. kr. In addition to that, it's set at 35 million. to improve the fairway of the entrance to Svolvær westehavn, Saltønna in the municipality of Vågan. The money for these projects was received with great joy when they arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1233	I agree with those who said that this might be a special debate, when we know that there will be major changes in 2009. First a little to the representative Fallet, who claimed that people in the districts had to follow the Progress Party when it came to cross-subsidisation in the Avinor system. It is a little special when it is recorded that the same batch is very concerned about building high-speed trains – precisely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, just to reduce air traffic at those airports where the largest revenue is generated so that cross-subsidisation can continue. It goes with government purchases. That is what the Progress Party has said we will do. Just as we do with the railway, just like we did with aviation in the past, and like we do with Hurtigruten, we want state purchases. When the budget was presented, representatives of the government parties said that the 2009 budget was well prepared to meet the financial crisis. Over the past few weeks, there has been a massive transmission of press releases and faxes from government agencies that there is a need to take new steps to meet the financial crisis that the Progress Party and the other opposition parties already warned about at the time – that they now entered difficult times. As I said, the NEF has today produced new reports with new figures showing that there is a high level of available capacity in the construction industry. The rescue company yesterday, as we know, went out and said that they were now going to cut out two of the manned boats along the coast. That means you get reduced rescue capacity. But that also means reducing oil protection capacity, because the rescue company often contributes as part of the backbone of oil protection along our coast. I don't understand how the government can accept this. It's actually about the safety of all those who travel at sea. They get a “Christmas gift” from the Government in the post – that you have to cut out two of the boats that are ready all day. I also think it is a little sad that the Minister of Justice is not present in this debate, because we are also going to deal with the matter of the emergency network, and that is an incredibly important matter. It means a great deal to everyone in the rescue scenes waiting to get the new emergency network in place and who is experiencing new delays. The last thing is that maybe by the end of 2009, the first phase will come into place. I find it sad that the Council of State does not come to this room, so that one can ask him if he can soon give a guarantee as to when the new emergency network will be in place, and when everyone within the rescue settings gets an emergency network that meets the requirements and needs of the various rescue settings. Then to the railway. I have heard very little criticism from the opposition in connection with this state budget. The Progress Party also included in its previous proposals for the State budget a massive increase in funding for the railways, but we introduced it as part of the fund solution. Now it has been said that there are other funding solutions, and we have put in a number of projects, where you invest more than NOK 3 billion more than the government spends. This means that electrification and refurbishment of the Trenderbahn can be established, which should be a climate and environmental measure. The representative of Langeland felt that the Progress Party was not concerned with the environment. I would think electrifying a path was a good step in such a direction. We spend a lot of money on double tracks – both Oslo–Ski and Vestfoldbanen. We're adding money to the Eidanger tunnel and to other railway parcels. It shows that the Progress Party is really betting on the railways, also on the development of the railways, and that is the great opportunity for now. Then I would like to mention Telemark. I'm recording that the government council has been on a private sightseeing trip to Oklungen to look at the Eidanger Express, which I think most of the government parties and other parties know is a tragedy, and where you should have done something a long time ago. Governments came to Telemark with 15 million. NOK in order to be able to buy up some land. In Telemark, unfortunately, we are a little too familiar with the fact that you sometimes bring some money. At the footpath and cycle path in Gvarv, Telemark, the Council of State came with 5 million. NOK 15 million and the final invoice. kr. Corresponding to rv. 36 in Bø in Telemark, where it was decided to buy up land, but still waiting for the road to be completed. That is also the challenge for the Eidanger tunnel. It doesn't help to make 15 million dollars. kr when the projects cost NOK 3.6 to 3.7 billion. There must be real appropriations. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to allocate an additional 115 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1250	The most important innovation of Norway is the digital one. Today, for example, switch on-line, can change an address, can search a loan in the Loan Box, or can deliver a self-message online. Today's public network solutions are only the beginning. When we post services online, it makes it easier for people and businesses, because they can use the services whenever they want. But we have some challenges. Public network services have been too under-coordinated. This is a special login, in which the inhabitants have to stick to a chaos of passwords and PINs - a password for NAV, a password for the Tax Authority, one for Lånekassa, and one for the municipality. We're clearing this up now. In these days, the inhabitants will receive a message with a PIN code that can be used to login to public services. At first login, a mobile phone number can be registered, so that a simple and convenient PIN code is provided on SMS for later logins. This ID solution makes it easier for citizens to use public services online. One of the most important things we propose in the 2009 budget is to develop a common public infrastructure for electronic identification. It's proposed 80 million. kr to the task for which the DIFI is responsible. The ICT initiative has been discussed in the Transport Committee in the past, but the budget for the Directorate was sent to the Municipal and Management Committee this year after the Presidency decision. However, the work related to ICT is still the responsibility of the Transport Committee and should therefore also be debated by that Committee. I have recorded that both the Right, the Progress Party and the Left in the Municipal Committee are cutting significantly in the operating budget of DIFI – as the representative of Greece should know not in Florø, but at Leikanger in Sogn. This cut will have dramatic consequences for the roll-out of the electronic ID and therefore also for the renewal of Norway. The work on electronic ID may be the most important task of the Directorate next year. Reducing the budget as proposed by the three civil parties will mean a comprehensive switchover for the directorate, taking note and not least resources away from the work on electronic IDs. A common identification infrastructure will benefit both citizens, businesses and the public sector. Clients and industry should be able to use one login solution for all public services. My predecessor recently said that if he had done the job again, he would have worked for a common standard in the field of ICT. It is a good thing that former government councils support this government's work. Because that's just standardizing. Already in the spring of 2006, the government decided to set up a standardisation council to advise us on this work. This government has decided that ICT developments in the public sector should be based on open standards. In the future, we will not accept that state-owned enterprises lock users of public information in closed format. The government adopted the first version of the administrative standards reference directory last year. We made there HTML, PDF and ODF mandatory standards when state agencies are going to publish online. A regulation to impose the same on municipalities is now being heard, and KS is in agreement with the Government when it comes to standardisation. In these days, the Standards Council has completed its work on version 2 of the reference directory, covering new areas of ICT use in the public sector. This will now be dealt with in the ministry before it is to be heard. Among other things, they have looked at standards for document formats for exchange between public etatories and the community, universal design standards and sound, video and video standards. So some words about broadband. I note that there are some somewhat incomprehensible comments about it in the setting. In the Soria Moria Declaration, this government promised broadband to everyone. This summer we got a report on the table that also says 99.8 pst. a broadband solution is now available to its inhabitants. We've spent $1 billion in public funds. The state's spent 700 million dollars. kr, which has triggered local and regional funds. 96 000 households in District Norway have had broadband, because this government has said that we should sort out where the market is not organised on its own. How the opposition can then write that we break the promise of broadband, to me, is incomprehensible. It must mean just one thing, that's a recognition that the government has done something that the bourgeois parties would never bet on if they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1274	It was okay that the Council of State ended there, because I still want to challenge the Council of State on this with 100 pst. broadband coverage. The Council of State and the Government have been quite clear about having 100 pst. coverage, and that is the assumption of the Government. Now you see that you have cut off the post where you have previously allocated funds to Høkom, which was supposed to ensure that where the market itself is unable to do so, you have to set up with state resources. I guess it's a little bit like this that Teleplan's case is on the ground, and it's going more at the municipal level and not all the way down at the individual level. The question is: is the Government satisfied with the broadband coverage in relation to the capacity that is now in place and is this why it has stopped making further allocations? Or the Council of State sees that more funds need to be put in place to get a higher capacity and make sure that it is 100 pst. Coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1281	Now I believe the representative Hoksrud knows that when Teleplan made his assessment and came to 99,8 p.m., it was before the year's promise of 188 million. kr at all was in use. This means that they are also to be used for broadband. We have good reason to believe that then we are so close to 100 pst. as it is possible to come in this country. I also believe that the representative Hoksrud is aware that broadband funds are now available from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' budget, where a user funds from a differentiated employer's fee. Now I take it a little bit after the thought, but I think it's 150 million. kr to be used in 2009. It is for broadband or mobile coverage in the areas where one has achieved full coverage. I used to be in the fall of Hoksrud's own home state, Telemark. They'll do 100 pst. coverage during 2009. This has simply had to do with capacity problems among the developers. We can't afford to get people to build broadband. But in Telemark, they're on target during 2009, and they've done a brilliant job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1290	After reading the draft budget which we are discussing in the Committee on Transport, there is certainly little basis for replication at all. Because of the budget we're dealing with, with a total budget of NOK 29 billion, it's $45 million. kr which is the responsibility of the Grande Røys Council in this budgetary procedure. Nevertheless, it is an important area, and it is important that we get speeded up the modernisation of Norway. The Ministry of Renewal has not exactly contributed to so much renewal. But I saw that the government council was on TV yesterday to explain the PIN code system that has now been sent out, which seems a bit incomprehensible to most people. What does the Government do now to make this something that everyone can use? Is it enough to send out a form with some PIN codes and say that this can be used here and there? There are very many in the population who do not have the necessary electronic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1297	I am very happy to have that question and am pleased that the Transport Committee is also busy with digital competence. Because the only way we can get the full effect of efficiency improvement through ICT is that people can actually put it into practice. All residents over 15 years of age in this country have received a message with a PIN code. I found that the tax rate is increasing this year's praise for having split the broadcasts. The data controller has criticised the broadcasts of previous years because one has sent out both PIN encoder and birth numbers in the same envelope. If someone sets that envelope from the mailbox, you can actually misuse it for identity fraud. So it's primarily for security reasons that we've split it up. Then Greece is committed to something important, that there is someone who cannot use the PIN code. There are many older people who have called and did not know what to use it for. Of course, our objective must be that more people do things like this. Senior networks, which we have supported financially, are easy to arrange data courses for the elderly. We will continue to support Senior Networks so that they can arrange more courses, so that next year we can avoid people not understanding what they are going to use the PIN codes for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1306	First, I have to say that I admire the State Council's sloppy security as she has done something that the previous government had never done. Of course, I very much disagree with that, and I think the Council of State is well aware of the High comeback bet, the offensive bet that was on renewal in the Bondevik II government. During the course of the day, there has been a lot of talk about crises and crisis-packaging, and we know that the government will present a crisis package in January/February. Then I wonder what thoughts and wishes the Minister of Renewal will put in this crisis package with regard to broadband and with regard to large public IT projects, such as Altinn and Nav, which I know is waiting out there for something to be done about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1314	The representative tenden is quite right that the High Come bet was there when I took over. My point is the bet on the areas where we know that the market would not have settled itself. This government made choices with very clear promises to use government funds for it. I did not register the corresponding promises from the civil parties – hence the pronunciation. Of course, when it comes to the issue of the package of measures, I am busy. ICT industry is a highly competitive industry. In translation, it is the fourth largest industry in this country. I think it's now an opportunity to bet on ICT projects that can both streamline public administration – not just the state, but also municipalities – and contribute to conversion, so that one in the future uses less resources to move paper and convert people to do work where we know they need to. As the representative Tenden had in mind, this could be a major public ICT project. Now, ALTINN II has been given a good run for the next year, but it could be other projects. It may also be a bet where ICT can not least affect the green sector, so that one has an impact on climate by investing in ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1321	You should listen to yourself, and understand me correctly: I am a strong supporter of boasting of what you have achieved and of your goals. In this respect, I can say on the occasion of the Council of State's sloping security with regard to who would have achieved what within broadband, that it is enough the Centre Party and the Advance Party that have been the most offensive parties in that way. But my question is – and I have asked the Council of State the same question earlier: when you boast about having delivered broadband to thousands of people, you boast that you will soon have 100 pst. Coverage, what is it when you brag about? Is it that you have contact, or is that the speed of what you deliver? It would be interesting if the Council of State had asked their colleagues in Finland what broadband is. My question to the council is: what is in the broadband designation, when the council boasts about the delivery of broadband to thousands of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1330	It's very simple. I stick to the broadband definition adopted by the majority in Stortinget in 2004, when a discussed broadband message from the previous government. A broad majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, decided that broadband was to be defined as being able to download and upload live sound and images – to say so in a slightly popular way. What's interesting about the Progress Party's policy that goes on absolute definition of a minimum technical standard is that that standard would be -- I would almost say -- out of date about the second that the Stortinget had made such a decision, unless one took the 20 MB standard. We see that, for example, OECD and EU standards are so low that virtually no one delivers such low standards per year. today. Most broadband providers today offer from 1 MB. We know that mobile broadband has been somewhat lower to now, but we see that there have been big things in that area. When one started to supply broadband over copper lines, we were down to 340 kB per. seconds, now you can get it up to 20 MB. This is where technology is going furiously fast. There's every reason to have a flexible definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1339	With respect to reporting, what the Council of State says is wrong. The Progress Party has never proposed a minimum standard in terms of coverage, but we have proposed a target. And it's clear that if the goal is just to download animated images, you can do it at a much lower rate than what you can operate on to be effective. But then I record that, both in the EU and in some EU countries in particular, there is a renewed debate on standardisation and what can be seen as broadband in a 10- to 20-year perspective. In Finland, it has actually been said that 100 MB is the target, not the minimum standard, while in Norway 340 to 350 kB is still operated and called broadband – and for that matter 1 MB, which in two years has expired. I agree with the Council of State on that. But isn't it time maybe to take a new round in the political environment in Norway, where we set completely different goals than just having 100 pst. Coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1346	I think people should be able to download and upload live sound and images. That means they're going to have a functionality that makes it possible for them to do what they want to do. We know that more and more of us use social services online, type of Facebook, we download videos and what it should be. So the demand for bandwidth has only increased with new services. So it's really exciting. But it has also challenged the technology, and, as I say, we now see that one of the pre-deliveries on the copper lines, which was down to 340 kB, which I don't per. Today would call broadband, now it could be up to 20 MB per. seconds. So here's where the technology goes. I cannot find a reason to start setting a minimum standard. I'm afraid it would be defined as a minimum norm. But there is every reason to continue to focus on broadband and see if not also a further expansion of broadband and how we can stimulate more capacity in the network, may be part of what we might also be able to include in an action package. But it says to look.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1355	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1358	As most people now understand, road and rail have been given a significant boost in this draft budget. The government is proposing a real increase for road use of SEK 1.6 billion, and NOK 1.3 billion on rail, an increase of 22 pst. as a whole. This means that we are proposing to grant more than DKK 2.4 billion than the annual financial framework for NTP, that is, even more ‘air billions’ than what we promised, which has now actually become a real increase. We double the allocation of the reward scheme to improve public transport. With this draft budget, all projects in NTP 2006-2009, with the exception of some projects lacking a plan clarification, will be launched. For me, this sounds like we keep what we promise and more – both on the financing side and at the start of projects, i.e. framework and content. The budget meets the financial crisis, which many have been concerned about. Many have also been concerned about predicting and seeing how it is going to go. I can only note that after we have received this budget presented and other measures from the Government, interest has fallen twice. As one of the many people in this country who have loans, I am also very pleased with it and appreciate the government's policy. The government also increases appropriations for the development of fishing ports and fairways by 13 million. kr. I think that's very positive. This means, among other things: that we have to open up the entrance to Svolvær port, we get repaired moles in Laukvik for 40 million. NOK, and we also started a long-term molo project in Grylfjord. I believe that the investment in fishing ports and fairway managers is one of the most important industrial policy we can have, and it is also a very important effort to develop our northern regions. The government is also following up the climate agreement. There are many measures in the budget designed to meet the climate challenges of the transport budget. Railways are strengthened and as mentioned also the reward schemes. The Transnova project will also be very important. The doubling of the reward scheme has some new elements in it. The cities that will benefit from this money must be willing to enter into binding agreements to reduce CO2 emissions and car traffic in their areas. There I can only challenge my own municipality and county, Oslo, to be more active in trying to reach an agreement with the state. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is the only party that cuts the reward scheme into its budget. I think that's strange, when we know that we can get $3 again for each of the government heads invested in this kind of project. It's also a little strange, when the Progress Party is the party that has the Transport Agency in Oslo, which enjoys this project very well and travels a lot around Oslo and boasts of what you get just with this money that you want to remove. Oslopackak 3 is also something that it may seem that the Progress Party does not want. But with the new law change that we made in ours, we're now getting to a community traffic bet of 540 million. NOK in Oslopackakt 3, where 390 of these will go into operation. It is, therefore, thanks to a change in the law that the Progress Party opposed. I am also particularly proud of the increase in investment on the railways. We've now increased the investment budget to the 140 pst railway. since we took over in government. It is possible that the representative tend to think this is only money, but it is actually money that helped pay the bills for the projects that her councillor, Torild Skogsholm, started. It may be fun to cut strings, but some people also have to pay the bill, and this government does. The government also grants 50 million. kr to initiate Oslo-Ski planning. This is a very important project that will mean an incredible amount for commuters, for short-distance traffic, regional traffic and long-distance traffic in Oslo, Eastfold and Akershus – and for the whole country. But it is also important to plan here in a forward-looking way, and see if it is also possible to plan to get to 250 km/h on this route. I also think it is positive that road vehicles are used to bet on public transport. I don't have time for that much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1382	Traffic in Norway has increased dramatically in recent years and is expected to increase further in the future. This is a necessary and positive development in relation to the desire for high mobility in a dynamic growing society, where many depend on providing large distances to deliver goods, getting to work or visiting friends and family. However, if we look at traffic trends in relation to climate challenges, traffic growth is worrying. The transport sector accounts for more than 30 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions, and if nothing is done, growth will continue. How we choose to build our transport system is closely related to which society we want to build. The government of Stoltenberg builds a community where we combine high mobility and economic growth with sustainable development. Transport policy is essential for success. We have therefore started to transform transport policy in the green direction. The climate communication and the climate agreement provide visions and guidance on this. Important measures that have been launched and are continued in the 2009 budget include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t conversion of car charges to stimulate the purchase and use of environmentally friendly cars conversion to environmentally friendly fuel conversion to collective alternatives such as bus and rail deployment of multiple cycling and walking paths conversion to more goods on boat and rail exploration and organisation of future modern high-speed trains in the intercity triangle between Lillehammer-Oslo-Skien, and Lillehammer-Oslo-Halden The working party will also point to the priority of telecommunications and transport research and studies on environmental and road safety. Transport policy should be based on a research-based knowledge base. The proposals to launch, inter alia: The investigation of freight flows in this country and the best way to reduce climate-damaging emissions from transport are important in this context. The same is true of the establishment of Transnova, a proposal for which we in the Workers' Party have welcomed. I hope it can provide room for grants for actions such as: the biogas projects on urban buses in Oslo and Fredrikstad, which could contribute to significantly lower CO2 emissions and noise from buses. At the same time as a green shift in transport policy, the Government aims to pursue a transport policy that facilitates the development and settlement of businesses throughout the country. One area I want to point specifically to is the north. The Northern Territory Strategy of the Government is a long-term strategy. It points to, among others: on the large oil, gas and fish resources that lie around here, and on the marine resources that can be used in R & D activities and to create new industries. Any new shipping routes through the Arctic Sea could change the strategic importance of the north and Norway's responsibilities here. In order to prepare and facilitate this development, which will affect the whole country, it is also important to have a broad assessment of transport needs in connection with a new transport plan, as announced by the government of Stoltenberg in the Northern Region Strategy, in addition to what is in the budget. It has been a joyous development for the railway during this process of growth. Never before has the railway been in focus like this – yes, maybe except when the first railway was built 150 years ago. The background is the government's clear priority of the railway, which has given a necessary boost to a more competitive railway. In addition, the Government’s investigations into the potential for high-speed rail have been subject to considerable interest and debate. The Workers' Party would stress the importance of providing sufficient basis for future high-speed rail assessment in the context of a new national transport plan, in particular from the intercity triangle Lillehammer-Oslo-Skien and Lillehammer-Oslo-Halden, as announced by the Government in the budget. Oslo – Gothenburg can be a good route to start with, to connect our network to European high-speed networks. A lot of people in and around the big cities use the railroad, and when it says, it's going to be chaos, as we've experienced in the East. Still, there are challenges to these sections of the train. The strengthening of operation and maintenance by the government on the railway network throughout the whole period, and also next year, is therefore essential after several years of down-priority. This is a responsibility that has to be shared by several, including the Bondevik government. The former co-workers are good at pointing out errors and shortcomings in today’s transport policy, but they will not be involved in taking responsibility for the policies they themselves pursued. One example is the denial of the maintenance needs of the railway, another is the concession terms granted by the Bondevik government to Moss Airport with a passenger roof that causes the airport a slow death, according to the Right's own statement. The airport and we in Eastfold want this removed to keep the airport. It now supposedly does the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party as well. Where were the government parties Right and Christian People's Party when the concession was given? The issue of the conditions of competition for Moss Airport Rygge is now under consideration in the Ministry of Transport, as explained by the Council of State in its reply today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1421	Transport policy is of great interest to most people, whether we live in rural or urban areas, but the needs for transport services differ from where we live. For us who live in the districts, the options are not so many, so the car is so crucial. With large distances and few or no collective offers, it says itself that without the car the Building Norway stops. Also in the districts, we depend on having accessible roads. The towns are often linked with county roads or municipal roads, which are again linked to a national road. The standard on these roads is in many places miserable, and they're not affordable. When the raspberry is large, and the road has gravel cover, it is not very comfortable to live in the countryside, despite great value creation, fine nature and well-being in so many other ways. That is why I am incorruptiblely happy that there is now a great will to invest in culture. This is essential for well-being, housing and value creation across the country. I hear quite often statements that it is wrong to spend money on roads in the districts, because people don't live there. I'm asking everyone who has this opinion, to put themselves a little bit better into what they're talking about. If the districts are to be able to continue their great value creation, we must have roads to secure the settlement and thus the value creation upon which our country depends. I am a supporter of solving the many large road extensions with tolls, but in some places no tolls can be used. This is due to a lack of traffic base despite high value creation. These areas also need new roads and there are continental connections that need to be implemented. I am very pleased that the government has taken real action to save the Hurtigruten. The fast route is very important for the whole coast. Especially for the viable coastal communities with few alternative transport services for people and goods, but of course also for tourism. I find reason to recall again that Hurtigruten is not subsidised, as many say, but the state pays for Hurtigruten to serve areas of the country with marginal traffic and receive other transport services. This is done in response to tenders. We have agreements on such operations with companies that operate both on land and in the air. The fact that such agreements are adjusted and compensated for unforeseen cost increases during the contract period is also not new in this context, but it is new for Hurtigruten. The net pay scheme was introduced a year and a half ago to make Hurtigruten more competitive in relation to the fleet with which they compete for tourists. No one sees the net pay scheme as any desirable scheme, but when other countries' fleets have such conditions, we also have to have it in order to compete. I say this in the hope of getting rid of the myth that the Hurtigruten gets large subsidies. Finally, I would like to mention another important issue for the northern part of the country. Rail in the north is a matter that has been debated in this house at regular intervals in the last 80 years – I say in the last 80 years. The Nordics have always been a patient people, but now we have to move on. The development of infrastructure is the very best North Sea effort that can be implemented. I am very pleased that so many speakers today have mentioned the northern regions. The value creation in the northern part of the country is very high. Products shall be rapidly placed on the market and shall be carried out in an environmentally sound manner. We can all record that trailer traffic in the north has increased dramatically in recent years. Therefore, a rail in the north is also an important environmental issue. Now we have to get the necessary investigations on this important matter started soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1436	If there's something that involves a lot of people, and that's more concrete than many decisions that will be taken in this house, then there's transportation. That's the way it is for me too. As others have pointed out, I am also pleased that the Government has delivered in the annual budgets, more than the low lead in the NTP period – overfilled for the first time in history. Our additions were not air money, which the opposition owed us when they were sitting on the other side of the table. Anyway, the frames are going up. The trail and road follow-up are still screaming in many places and impoverishment for a little busy everyday life for hundreds of thousands. The reorganisation for which the previous government got multiples has caused too many projects – small and large – to be published on offer. It requires a lot of resources for calling documents and close follow-up after-sales follow-up. In the Road Service, they don't have a spade. Everything's to be ordered. I think much more than the economic gain goes to expensive external consultants and paperworkers than to road and rail. The question is getting close: are the etas getting used up? Or are they encroached on by these processes that they now have? Then an economic dark cloud has also settled over Norway. The unemployment path, and the first parameter in this way is the construction sector. Maintenance is an area that can quickly get people to work. Where I live, it is strangely said with a bit of a bitter undertone that the road last got a new cover as Bratteli was Minister of Transport. After that, it's just been patched up. Yes, Hellbillies has a point, which Greece also had in the past, when they sing about thousands of holes between Geilo and Ål. Telemark and Buskerud are two counties who have been driving the road wear for years on dispensation. It is clear that there are deviations on the road deck extreme – sometimes at least – so I hope the Council of State has us in mind when it comes to running out new asphalt, because maintenance has a good employment effect. So some other reflections: how do we use large parts of the transport budget? Is it urban development? Or is everything focused on getting more traffic on the road and on the track? Are we listening enough to the colleges? Or do we need to send Christmas cards home when there are elections every four years? The need for repairs and initial investment is so great that one should think carefully in that area. So I also mean that the high-speed rail tank is. It is amazing to sit outside of the committee and observe the exposure, while one on parcels on existing sections of the track has to slow down, the train goes at the same pace as in the 1950s and 1960s, and some places the train almost sneaks forward for 20 to 30 km per hour on hamlets of 100 years or more. But the passenger number still goes up. Now I think the high-speed train can come one day. Perhaps a start should be made where new sections should be built, such as the Eidanger Tunnel, the Ulrik Tunnel or the Ringeriks Railway, for that cause. These are new parcels that enhance the capacity of existing sections, equip today's railways and fulfill political promises, as we have done. And then we have to remind ourselves that there are only 4.5 million people in this country, and the railroad doesn't even go where all of them live. The sitting of the government is troubling in this area of policy. People have great expectations, and the popular commitment meets the populace every day. Furthermore, the Prime Minister’s bid for several tens of billions of dollars will not dampen his expectations for the years to come – and now the signal for a package of measures that also includes transport. The sitting state council probably won't be unemployed with the first, and she's doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1455	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1459	After listening to the opening of this debate and hearing the chairman of the committee and the vice-president of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, talk about transport, I wonder if the representative Sandberg has at all come to realize that the way in which the overburdens in the transport sector are financed is no longer there. After perhaps the best economic boom in the Norwegian economy, we are now entering a troubled time, when the financial crisis and other things affect Norway. But the answers, the arguments and the amounts of the Progress Party are clichés, whether it goes down into the Norwegian economy, or it goes up. Then the credibility of economic policy, which, after all, is supposed to finance all the roads and the railways we want in this country, is not particularly great. I have compared it to the following: When I borrow hail to my father-in-law on a cabin in Numedal – I am a miserable shooter – I occasionally hit the blink. Similarly, the Progress Party continues its economic policy of financing roads and railways. So it is not possible, with respect to reporting, to use downtime as an argument for experimenting with economic policy when people are concerned about their jobs, an experimental policy to help finance the roads and the railways that the Progress Party wants. The second point is that it really just becomes a theoretical exercise, because the largest opposition party has to cooperate with someone in order to get its policy through. It's going to be, by all probability, the right. There's the veto, the ultimatum, right? It is totally inappropriate to base economic policy on the experimental approach of the Progress Party. This means that a future possible bourgeois government will have the same amount of money and the same room for action in economic policy as today's government. That means you want the same amount of money to distribute to roads and to the railways. Then you don't have to be an expert or a professor to understand what's going to be a priority. Then it's just to look at the last big period when the Progress Party made up the budget with the bourgeois Bondevik government for three out of four years. Then there was no cheer or hallelujarop around the country when it applied to roads and railways. I am proud to belong to a government fraction – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – which, within a financially sound framework, in a violent high economic climate, has been able to say that it is something that is more important than other things. These include: to bet on roads and railways, and I am especially proud that we now have a rail budget it starts to taste bird. It's not close enough – I know it's commuting on the Drammensbanen every day. We're far from where we want to be, but within a scheme where we don't endanger the jobs of people the most, we've managed to prioritize roads and railways. It will be very interesting to see how the Progress Party will meet at the door when they will cooperate with the other civil parties in the field of transport policy in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1470	In February of this year we experienced a big day in Eastfold, namely that the new Back Civil Airport, or now called Moss Airport Rygge, was officially inaugurated by the country's Minister of Transport, Liv Signe Navarsete. It was a big day, because this was a project that the whole Eastern society had been working together for many years. This morning, I had the pleasure of handing over over 7 000 signatures to the Council of State on a propeller that ordered Moss Airport Rygge to have the same competitive conditions as other airports in the country. Not least, the requirement to remove the so-called passenger roof is very central. What's this passenger roof now? It is claimed from the red-greens that this was introduced in the previous government period. That claim will not be more accurate if it is repeated again and again. What was in the original concession terms was that it was an alert requirement for the company when they passed 750000 passengers. Next to it were the number of flight movements of 21000. Many will probably remember that in the past there was a long political struggle linked to the opening hours of Rygge, where the government was put under very strong political pressure and finally had to give up and allow half an hour extended opening time morning and evening. After the treatment and the impact we got at the end of the day, after the matter had been seized and brought into the hall, SV-ers ran around here on the house and boasted that they had to swallow this camel and join in the extension of the opening time, but in the red-green government they had been impressed that the passenger roof would be absolute and stand firm. So these concession rules are considerably strengthened by the red-green government – unfortunately. I'm in doubt if the Council of State has taken into account the seriousness of the situation. In fact, there is a danger that the entire airport and the company that is behind it will go bankrupt unless Rygge obtains the same competitive conditions as other airports in that country. Thus, the Council of State has a very great responsibility if she does not soon help to survive as a good airport for Eastfold and the central eastern region. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to become much clearer than what she was in her reply to the reply from Arne Sortevik in the earlier debate, which I actually experienced was a political sanctification – not one word about the direction in which a decision would go, nor about when a decision would come. I challenge the Council of State to say something more concrete about this later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1483	I am able to rejoice that this government is now meeting the targets that the majority of the population have fallen into the national transport plan for this period, which means that we are now on the threshold of rail purification here to land. So, as you can see, this state council has secured a place in the history of transport. Railway investments now amount to SEK 3.2 billion per year. And as we move into the next transport planning period, new railway billions and new important projects come. I am inconceivably happy that the development of the Vestfold track is being resumed into the spring, and that the double-track project Barkåker-Tønsberg has found its solution. I am also pleased that we have received planning materials for the sections Holm–Holmestrand–Nykirke and Farriseidet–Porsgrund, so that in the years to come we can have a continuous development of the Vestfold track – i.e. the intercity section of the Norwegian railway network with the highest growth potential. The development of double tracks on the Vestfold track will increase the capacity of the railway and will then also shorten the journey time so much that with these investments we will facilitate a whole new development of housing and business on the west side of Oslofjorden. That was this right hand part in its time wouldn't be on. They have certainly not crossed many sticks for the railway – at least not as long as they were in the government offices. It is only now, after a few years of reflection and contemplation, that citizens have discovered the excellence of the train as a means of transport – mainly for passenger transport in the most populous parts of the country, but also for goods over longer distances. That's good, and we'll hope it lasts. I noticed that the representative Halleraker earlier this week described the situation during the Bondevik II administration. He explained that his government had to keep the cost level down in the public sector, and now I quote Halleraker directly: “If we didn’t have money for all good purposes, you can regret it, but that’s the way it was.” In my opinion, the description of the floor covering is quite correct. The Bondevik II government kept the transport appropriations at a low level and cut down the municipal budgets to such an extent that we are now struggling with the delays. Worst were the disadvantages of the Bondevik II government imposed on the central government, among others. through the closure of State production activities. When many later have forgotten their own past and allow themselves to criticize the Government for not doing enough, it is good to have people like the Halleraker representative, who remind us of what it once was like.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1503	To Bård Hoksrud I would say that it is important to have dreams. He should try it! High-speed trains will probably come, but maybe not so fast that I'll enjoy it, so in the meantime I'll use planes when I'm going to, for example. Sørkjosen in Nordreisa in Troms. But with the resistance of the Progress Party to cross-subsidisation, the unprofitable airport is likely to be closed down. Or maybe Bård Hoksrud knows any private people who want to run an unprofitable airport? I do not understand that the Progress Party will use the taxpayers' money for the government purchase of services in aviation when one today has a system that finances itself. I have now sat in the hall listening to the debate, and the idea is that it is a pity that an indoor world championship is not organized in sutring. Then the opposition would not have to participate in the training camp. I feel sorry for Greece, the Ten and others who have suffered so much in this debate. I just have to say that I like to rewrite a familiar quote: I'm sussing, so I am. Because it is a cross of thought that suing and complaining here in the country increases as the standard of living. We need a people's movement against sutring or, to angle it a little bit more positively, a people's movement for enthusiasm. Since this is my last budget debate, I dare to make a wish: I hope that a popular movement for enthusiasm will get more followers than all those who are today volunteering in the growing sutre movement. Unnecessary irritation steals a lot of forces, and remorse rarely brings something good with it. With this I want the opposition Christmas and a new year with enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1514	First of all, I want to thank you for having a good year, a new year with enthusiasm. I'm excited already, but we have some challenges that it must be allowed to point out without us being put in a booth that we're running and suspending. Transport is important to us. We're a mobile people. We live in a world where we feel that distances are getting smaller and smaller, and then transport is important. One of the two main challenges we face is the climate challenge. The mobile people, too, have to take this on board. As a daily train commuter through Østfold, I am busy helping to improve the train offer through this county. In Eastfold there is a broad agreement on Eastfold package phase 1, which consists of three elements, E6, E18 and our railway. The completion of the E6 we could celebrate with His Majesty King Harald a few weeks ago. In the case of E18, it is necessary to take a decision on the trasé selection from the east fold border and in the direction of Oslo. The plans are ready for the E18 from Morenen Køpecentre and eastwards, that's just the money it's on. We have proposed 80 million. kr as a start-up appropriation in our alternative budget. But the plans are there. To next year we want enough people to build the road, the question is whether this could be one of the sections that the government is taking into its package of measures. On this route, 25 pst goes. of freight traffic to the country and out of the country. It's an important road map and a necessary road map to get in place. It was necessary for the Council of State in October to make the commitment she made to the double track for the Ski-Oslo route. On the part of Eastfold, there is a clear expectation that this will then be within the NTP. As far as the railway is concerned, we also have another challenge in our county, and it's double-tracked through Moss. We had five million. kr this year for planning. There's $25 million left over. kr. This is the noise of contrasts: Last night, Moss's presidency granted $14 million. kr, but today, unfortunately, we will not get a majority to grant the 25 million needed. kr here in this hall. I expect the employee party representatives and the SV representatives to respond to why they cannot participate in this assignment for a project that is mutually agreed and for which we have worked for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1529	Transport is an important policy instrument when it comes to using the whole country, both in terms of busnet structure and not least in relation to local business development. As a business politician, of course, I am busy that the infrastructure facilitates this. The budget debate on transport is in many ways a strange exercise. Year after year, this debate is used to send greetings home for Christmas. I'm going to do that, too. Everyone has a roadblock or other challenges in the area of transportation. Unlike the opposition, I am very pleased that we have a government that takes the national transport plan seriously. There is a need for strong investment in this area, not least in view of the difficult time that Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs experience in these days. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Council of State for finally finding a few million landmines on the Larvik-Porsgrund route. It was important. Now it is my hope that the financial package that the Government will present at the end of the month of January/February will also have the means of planning the same route, so that one can soon set the earth's path for this project. Another route, the Bratsberg Railway, which Telemark County now operates with State support, is now in danger of being brought down to summer due to the fact that the State terminates its purchase of services on this route. I am aware that the county itself wanted this solution in 2004, but, as I understand it, Telemark County does not have the economic muscles to operate this supply on its own. The Bratsberg Railway is the only working public communication medium between Grenland and Notodden. That is why this route is important for both industry, schools and hospitals. At these times, as there is a need to invest in both infrastructure and industrial development, it is my hope that the Council of State will rethink finding a solution, either together with Telemark County Council or other partners, so that this important train link is not closed. However, I dare to remind you that Telemark and Buskerud are the two states with highways that are the most frequent when it comes to road standards. There is evidence that Telemark and Buskerud have come all the way back, and there is a long way forward to reach a satisfactory level. Not surprisingly, I have faith in this government. Politics is about prioritizing. It is good rural policy, good industrial policy and good health policy to focus more on improving infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1548	It was a great call we received from the representative Eirin Fallet not to drive with sutring, but to be optimistic. The opposition is also optimistic and points to challenges. I'm now in the third period, and I've experienced two oppositions. I don't see that pointing to challenges is sutling. On the contrary, it can be optimistic about what one wants for one's own part of the country. That's why I have now taken the floor to say a little about what was supposed to be a North Region bet. On 1 December 2006, the Government presented its north-eastern policy in Tromsø, with Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and, as they said themselves, with a greater number of ministers in Northern Norway than ever before. And I think two of the ministers who are here now were present there. Then we passed on 1 December 2008, and we have received a fine booklet summing up the Northern Region measures. That's very good. But what's in the paper is to a large extent a list of what would have been in the different budgets for the northern regions anyway. For the past year, there is one project from the Minister of Transport, and then there are a few more from the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. This is not in line with the promises made on 1 December 2006 regarding the northern region. In particular, as far as the transport area is concerned, I believe that we have not had a North Region bet, but we have had some kind of North Region stand. The Navarsete State Council justified the lack of projects in the national transport plan, and that is the responsibility of the previous government. But I can then point to a glittering example from the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, who suddenly found out that priority could be given, and then put in the port of Stamsund. It was, in my opinion, excellent, and it proves that the national transport plan is a guiding action plan, and not a plan that, when you see biased distributions, you can't correct. I think there's been every reason to do that for North Norway. Here, too, the red-green representatives on the northern bench have, in my opinion, a responsibility. But now we get the chance, because we're going to get a package of measures from the government. It's a pleasure, and we're going to cooperate on that. There are also opportunities for doing good to Nord-Norway with good projects. I want to mention the E6 across the whole part of the country, crossing tracks on the Northern Railway, racial protection across the whole part of the country – and then I very much agree with Bendiks H. Arnesen on the railway. Here, at my discretion, the Tromsbane can be an exciting project, at least one must now be able to make a proper investigation of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1563	It was a vivid description of the power of the enthusiasm that the representative Fallet came along with. We both know that the Neeroset in Hedmark is excited, so I almost perceive it so that the representative will move there when the period is over. But for the rest of us, communication is very central to value creation. Hedmark has some very central trajectories, and there has to be a completely different pressure on their development than today. It's not just Hedmark that depends on it. Large parts of the North-West and Central Norway also depend on goods passing Hedmark without too much delay. The location of Hedmark near Oslo may provide a basis for the settlement and development of competence if the communications are working well. Train is an important offer where the railway goes. Double tracks to Hamar and a much better offer to Stockholm via Kongsvinger are, of course, themes in that debate, but for too many parts of Hedmark the discussion will focus on the road. Hedmark has spread residence and business, it's a transit state, and it houses some of the largest tourist destinations in the country. It's a road that has to do the job for most of these. Of course, E6 is top priority. Even there, the government is now able to sell it to. There are now strong warnings from the State Road Administration that the continuous expansion between Gardermoen and Colomoen is at risk due to summer meal by the Minister for the Environment. Tracing options and solutions need to be clarified. This must take place before the New Year, otherwise the planning period will be too short, and the project will incur unnecessary costs and time losses. Why doesn't the government present the solution you're going for now? Do you really want to let sommel and quarrel in the closed rooms put the continuous expansion at risk? Rv. 2 is another lifeblood where the government is in deficit – with 65 million. kr, according to the table on page 89 of the setting. Is it that the redder a district is, the worse the follow-up becomes? The government is signaling a new start to Rv. 2 in the autumn of 2009 but do not follow the example of the Right to grant money. Rv. 2 is a capital towards Stockholm and an important part in the development of the Nordic triangle. And with the agricultural policy that this government is pursuing, I have the impression that the whole of Rome is going to Charlottenberg every Saturday. At least the road is blown up, even on Saturday. It is part of this picture that the offer of trains on Kongsvingerbanen is very poor. The whole of South Hedmark is dependent on road – and rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox The development of Trysil as a tourist destination can be greatly hampered by capacity problems on rv. 3 to Elves. Trysil is Norway's largest tourist destination. Why not think OPS to develop rv. Three? Things can be solved in a lot of ways. This government should be aware of this as soon as possible. Hedmark has no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1578	Now we're inside the annual hallelujarund from representatives of the red-green parties, and we hear the rose of the red-green government's movement. We also hear from the Council of State that there was at least nothing better under the previous government. We just have to take note of that. But the problem is that people don't notice any difference! People out there don't notice any difference in the so-called bet that this government has made. It is a challenge not only for the red-green parties, but for all political Norway. Our task is for people to notice the difference when Stortinget makes decisions. We can, for example: Look at my own county, Akershus. There are a number of projects in line. The E18 westward is a project that should have been solved many years ago. As mentioned earlier, some of the E6 has occurred in Akershus and southwards towards Eastfold, but there is reason to recall that E6 northwards through Rome also has significant capacity problems in the rush period. It is also a challenge, as the representative of Gundersen mentioned, with Rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox Rv. 2 is a project that should have been completed immediately. What makes things so expensive here in Norway is that we don't complete projects when we've started them. Rv. 4 is another project that we absolutely must get started reasonably quickly. Then we record that this government believes that financing of transportation is a personal responsibility. Financing transport is a personal responsibility for each of us citizens. We see that because tolls are increasing dramatically. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, take E18 westwards, where a bombing has now occurred at Blommenholm long before the project to be started. It is clear that citizens who do not exactly have a positive attitude towards government policy when they are charged that kind of cost without seeing results. So it's important that we now get a solution of E6 along Mjösa. Here now the Government must act. We come into a situation where the project stops, plant machinery has to be moved. It imposes significant additional costs on the project. We can't have it like that in a country that's calling for funds. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1591	The President must ask for respect for speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1594	I would like to make some additional comments on points that have been raised in the debate, and something that I may not have received in my first post. First a little about road maintenance and maintenance equipment, and where they've been. The main reason why the win has gone up in spinning when it comes to the gain of reorganization, of which there has been a lot of boasting from the opposition in this hall, is that we have had a cost increase in functional contracts that replaced the State Road Service's own 40 pst apparatus. It's far, far beyond price growth, even though it's also high on other services. So even if we, as reported in the 2007 state budget, had a first-round win, he's more than a tedious one, and we can't find another one like that. This could mean that the company has subsidized its first offer, or it could mean that they are now looking at their average to take more out of a market where the public has given away the market to private companies. We need to do more to figure out what the status is. So to another question that has been raised in the debate. We now have a system where the state's airports, which are collected under Avinor, form an integrated and coherent network. Within this network, there is a joint charging policy and cross-subsidisation of business-economy airports. It's a system that's a collection of caves, with some exceptions, before it's been busy going on. Avinor is ahead of major investments in the future. The situation is exacerbated by the international financial crisis, and it is important that we see aviation as a whole. There is a little bit of the rear carpet when we are going to consider an application that might come from Rygge, which we have not received today, about changing concession conditions. But I've said before – I've said this here in the hall, and I've said it today early – that we should look at what comes from Rygge, and we should have a constructive dialogue about it. The Right Party has an unmistakable belief in competition and privatisation, and believes that it will better resolve the societal challenges, including those in the transport sector. But we're recording at these times that even those parties are pretty high on the path to ask for government help, whether it's for export finance, GIEK or others. I think their policies about large funds throw blues in the eye of the voters. What we need, whatever creative solutions, is a growth in government budgets. It stands for this government, and we deliver in practice, while others talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1608	Most people experience poor roads in Norway. Most people are impatient. Most people understand that the framework of the national transport plan needs to be greatly increased, and many demand that oil money be linked to transport investment. With reference to the representative Micaelsen of the Workers' Party, it is not an experimental economic line to do just that, to link oil wealth and oil wealth returns to the use of government loans in a scheme to secure project finance, development companies and the development of long distances. There's nothing experimental about it. On the contrary, it is a line for which the party colleague of the representative Micaelsen, Matz Sandman of the Workers' Party, is an ardent spokesman, in the same way that the Progress Party is, on behalf of eight counties in the Eastern region. To the representative of Wickholm, who spoke of the Party of Advances cutting on the collective side. I ask him to read page 67 of the statement, in which we replace the reward scheme with a collective package for the big cities, and have far stronger bets than what the government has. To the representative of Langeland, whom I do not see in the Chamber. I am disappointed that he who is so busy with urban railways is not enthusiastic about the Femskrit party's proposal to coordinate with the Railway Agency – where also the Christian People's Party and the Left are with us. To the representative Eirin Fallet I must also say, like my colleague Bård Hoksrud, that the loss of cross-subsidisation in Avinor does not mean the loss of aerodromes. It's wrong to say that it does. Purchases of public transport services are also used by this government. The truth is that at least since the representative comes from there, the Workers' Party will not replace the user's fee by government funds. It's not like our airports are financing themselves out of nowhere and out of air. They're actually 100 pst. funded by users. The government does not have new funding tools, but is then saved by a financial crisis that forces the Government to increase its budget. The country’s transport network needs to be modernised. We get no modernisation without modern tools, and they have to be used in normal times. It does not help with shipper’s roofs in connection with economic crises once every 80 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1623	I noted with interest that the Council of State in its last contribution now referred to the large investments that Avinor is facing in the airport system we have in Norway. Then it might be in the right place to remember that of the 900 million. kr that has been invested in the new Moss Airport Rygge, it is not a single penny that has been granted by the Stortinget. This is 100 pst. private capital. That's why I think it's a point to remember that both Back and Torp in the years to come could be both good alternatives and good supplements to the Gardermoen. In that perspective, perhaps one should also look at the investment that you have seen on the Gardermo in the years ahead in view of a possible third runway. I don't see that in the foreseeable future there is a special need for it when we have two other very good and decent airports that can take off for traffic growth in the years to come. So the question of "back" and "frame conditions." The position currently before us states on page 103, proposal No. 21, a concrete proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party that this so-called passenger ceiling should be abolished. Then it is interesting to note that several representatives, not least from my own county, Eastfold, are running around and saying that yes, they are very much in order to wind up this passenger roof, but at the same time we register with great interest – it is rather alarming – that they are going to vote against actually doing so. That's what in good Norwegian can be called double political accounting, or, in other words, leading the voters in their own state behind the light. Maybe it's time for this sport to be revealed in all publicity. I would also like to remind you that Halden's Labour Party rapporteur, Per Kristian Dahl, has been very clear to his own party traps and said that if they vote against this, they should not be re-nominated to the Stortinget. It is an internal matter for them to take in the Eastfold Workers' Party, but I think it was a very strong statement. Otherwise, these concession terms have established 21,000 flight movements, and so far, no Smoking may have achieved more than a quarter of those flight movements. It can't be that it's okay that the planes should be allowed to land and take off from Back just because they're empty? At best there will be molbo policies of the worst drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1636	I have to say I am a little surprised that the representative Engeset is interfering in the nominations of the Workers' Party. You'd think he had enough of the nominations in his own party. Traditionally, almost all the debate on transport policy in this Chamber has been about infrastructure. In fact, I do not remember a single politician who has noticed in terms of demands for increased resources for operation and maintenance. On the other hand, there are those who have had the baba for a whiskers' butt. Likewise, we should also remember that most of the roads and routes are built, and that we're going to use them for quite many years to come. The maintenance of the infrastructure has been neglected, the slowdown has grown, and the need for increased maintenance efforts is quite considerable. Consequently, the Government has increased the appropriations for operation and maintenance quite considerably. Nevertheless, even more is needed if we are to prevent road and rail networks from becoming confused in the years to come, not only because of delays, but also because it costs more to maintain advanced infrastructure. The requirements are increasing, and the consequences are growing when the signalling system at Skøyen station breaks down or we get a fire in the Oslo tunnel. When 80,000 people in the Oslo area do not get to work, including the staging representatives, it is noticed far into the corridors of the Storting. In the budget proposal, the Ministry of Transport shows that the State Road Administration is conducting annual surveys of public satisfaction with the standard of operation on the road network. Not surprisingly, these surveys show that the audience is not satisfied with both winter operations and the standard on asphalt tyres. Satisfaction has gradually fallen since the Landevik Government closed the Vegvesen’s own production and competitive road works. Entrepreneurs then also confirm what the audience has perceived. The standard on the roads, winter summer, has become worse, despite significant increase in appropriations during this government. There are, of course, several reasons for this, but the most important are the organisational changes made in 2003 with the closure of the Road Administration’s production activities. It is now clear that the consequences are: We have not received the intended gains from the conversion. The operation of the roads has, on the contrary, become far more expensive than expected, partly as a result of the contractual regime. Competition for the tasks is limited. Indeed, developments are moving towards a clean market sharing with a similar monopoly in different parts of the country. The road manager has been red taped. The supervision has become worse. The sum of this, of course, is getting worse at a higher cost. The time has clearly come to look at the experience we have gained during this five-year period. We are given the opportunity to revise the transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1676	I have to say I'm a little surprised by the Council of Ministers of Navarsete and the Central Party's mention earlier in the debate on the private sector and private solutions. For what do we hear? Well, we hear a glorification of state and public solutions that you have to look for a while in other parties. So, in truth, the Center Party has moved a considerable amount in recent years. I also noticed that during the course of the day the Council of State found the money I asked for in the change of line, and that she found them in the increase in costs related to, among other things. the functional contracts. I also have that in the course of the day, but I do not have the same conclusion as the Council of State for that reason. Because it's not just the operational tasks and the maintenance tasks that have become more expensive – no, that's exactly the reason why you can't do the national transport plan on kilometers, on routes, etc., but that you do it in dollars and cents. We've talked about that many times. And blaming that we have a tendering regime with functional contracts that has then eaten up this gain, I think it's a bad excuse. A number of private contracts for maintenance, operation and investment were, of course, also used in the road transport sector. Everyone who's been on this for a while knows that. Then I must be allowed to replicate back to the representative Gullvåg who probably got it a little heavy after the debate on Monday, where I found to question his objectivity in relation to the creation of Mesta. He then pointed out that I spoke about what a bourgeois government had to do in the last period – but I almost felt that he thought it was strange that I was honest on that question. I don't want the representative to see that. That's how it was. But what he forgot to say was that it was absolutely necessary to stimulate the private sector to such an extent – we did not have the double possibility that this government has had. This stimulation has, among other things: given a tax access to this country that has been quite formidable, in fact, so that for the last year's budget, we spent no more than DKK 2.8 billion of the State pension fund – abroad, and of the balancing proposition we are going to deal with in a week, it states that only NOK 8 billion is used. That's the result of the work of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1685	The debate is coming to an end and I'm going to take care of myself so I don't say anything that pulls it out. However, I wanted to comment on some statements that have been made in the course of the debate. First of all, when the representative Gullvåg took up the pulpit today, it reminded me of the debate last year – and it reminds me that it goes quickly from heaven to hell. As we remember, it was during the article to the representative Gullvåg last year no particular mood in this room, but now I registered that in the first post to the representative Gullvåg today, everything was just gold and green forests. So fast it goes with a billion dollars or two to create the enthusiasm that the representative Falled was very concerned about. I would also like to volunteer as Vice President in that club in case it becomes a reality. Then I registered that the representative of Wickholm was very concerned that this government bets violently. This is achieved by amending the law, says the representative of Wickholm. There are no legislative changes that have led to the possibility of using more funds for road construction and collective action. It's that you brave drivers for even more money. The toll ratio increases by 20 pst. Next year. You have to brag about that. It's simple to be a big-time representative today if it's the way to spend other people's money to strengthen public transport or infrastructure, but then you fall quickly through, I think. I also registered that the representative Mikalsen used 95 pst. of its three-minute contribution to the Progress Party – that we were making an offer, and that our budget proposals for 2009 and 2008 were clichés. It tells a lot about the representative, Micaelsen, among other things. he has not checked the document for setting up today. The document on which we are debating should be looked at at at least before we take the floor in Stortinget. For had the Micaelsen looked at it, he had seen that there was a significant difference in the proposals of the Progress Party for 2009 and 2008. We've taken into account something that the sitting government hasn't done. I note that the Micaelsen has now clearly said that there is no need for any extra packages or package of measures, because the budget of the Government on 7 October is good enough. Every million that had to come extra to the infrastructure of this government is overdue. That is why we can cancel the packages of measures that have been signalled to come in January and February. That is what the Progress Party has done in its alternative budget. We have taken care of a realistic situation for the needs that exist. We're actually doing the opposite of what the Micaelsen and the Workers' Party are doing, and that's what the Prime Minister said in the Questionnaire three weeks ago, where he signalled to the construction industry that they had to withstand a downsizing from 190,000 to 150,000 men. Here you accept that 40,000 men should go out to unemployment. That's what the Micaels also said in their article. It's good to get with you!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1696	The passenger roof of Moss Airport Rygge is an important matter. Today’s concession terms place a strong constraint on the further development of the airport at Rygge. As the Christian People's Party sees it, this must be corrected as soon as possible so that we can get a further development of this airport. The Council of State said in the change of line and also in its last post that she should look at what is coming, and that she should have a constructive dialogue. It is good to hear, but we need a constructive decision, and that is to remove this ceiling. In Eastfold we also have a fishing port, Utgårdskilen fishing port on Hyler. This is an important fishing port. Our next fishing port is in Lindesnes. Plans are in place for the expansion of the fishing port. They have been lying for a while, but there have been few allocations to the port of fishing during this period of government. It is an important wish on my part that the plans available to the port of fishing may be among the measures that the Government considers when preparing a package of measures. There are plans here, and it is important for our fishermen to be close to a fisherman. If there's another state I'm going to pay a little visit to this post, it'll be Telemark. The Bratsberg track represents an important offer, an important collective offer between Grenland and Notodden that should be maintained. The Eidanger tunnel will also be important to get in place, so that we can reduce travel time quite drastically on the route. E134 is an important road not only for the transport of goods, but it is also important for the community. As has been said earlier in the debate, Telemark has a poor road standard. It's documented. It is therefore important that Telemark is also taken care of in this area. Finally, I warn that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 24, promoted by the Advance Party, Right and Left, and running on the urban railway project in Bergen and coordinating with the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1711	I get tired of listening to the brilliance of the red-greens. They're happy with one, and they're happy with the other. Yes, they have increased the appropriations here and there. So they boast of everything. But what do they have to brag about? Is it lagging behind on their core business, the railway, that they boast of, that has increased from 90 billion dollars to 140 billion dollars? If you use the same percentage calculation, is it retarded on the tribal roads, which has increased from 230 billion dollars to 300 billion dollars? Or maybe it's retarded on the other highways, which have increased by 1 billion a year while they've been sitting with power? They shouldn't be satisfied with anything, and they should stop standing here bragging. What they should do was bend their heads in shame because they haven't solved the problems that the Norwegian people need. But they don't. They're standing here bragging. It provokes me that the representative Torgeir Micasen comes up to the pulpit and has to instruct the Progress Party on how to solve the problems of transport! It's a direct provocation. If the same representative had come up here and lectured the Progress Party on how to increase the lag as much as possible, I should have been sitting quietly in the hall and heard carefully after, for that is something they can do. But when they come and teach us how to solve the traffic problems, which they themselves are unable to solve, the flaps slip over my ears. I think the same people should ask, how did we get here? Why is the aftermath increasing? But there's no question about it. So it's talking about sutring, and they're trying to ridicule some. The prayer Hansen was up here and had a very good post. He complained about the road standard in Telemark and Vestfold and was afraid to get into the sutra club. He's absolutely right. The problem is that these problems exist all over the country and that they are increasing. In Bodø municipality, in Bodø town, with 46 000 inhabitants, the bridge, is the only entryway in there, in the process of collapsing. It's actually dropped half a meter on each side. The parties are worn out. And what does the Government do? Well, they're putting a floating bridge on the side. How did they get here? Why don't they start by facilitating a solution to the problem – building a new bridge? But no, the silence has subsided in the department – and in this room. I hear nothing about someone coming up and solving the problems. The day the brown falls down, there are 46 000 inhabitants who have to start taking planes when they're going to work, or take the fast route or another boat, because there's no way into Bodø town. Here, someone should take himself in the headlights and do what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1722	The President reminds us that there are speaker installations in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1725	I thought Kenneth Svendsen would take care of himself in the neck. There has never been any delay in transport that has increased as much as when he had a budget with Bondevik. The only thing he got was a roundabout in Fauske – no, there were three roundtrips. Otherwise there was one million for road maintenance, and the trailing extra and extra. So why he's standing here screaming and ours, I don't understand. On the contrary, you have to take responsibility when you're in charge, okay? At least it taught me as a little child. So a few more words about North Norway. The orbit has been named by several. NEW Corridor has our names. SV is positive to both and of course wants to move on with them. We work with them in relation to NTP as an important issue. There's one of these areas where we don't have railway, Sahl, and I want that. I wanted an OL too, I, but now there was no OL, because the Oslo Mafia took the break at OL – I mean in the press. So to one thing that we're still coming back to – Back. I must say that I am a little dismayed when I hear Engeset and Holten Hämdal stand here and say that now the government has to take responsibility. A year ago they came and said no then, there's no change here. There will be no change about this, on the contrary – no, it will be, there will be no more. Then the airport goes bad, and then they say it's the government's responsibility, now we have to have more passengers. No, they'll have to take responsibility. SV has been pretty clear that we didn't want what was done last time. So now they come and fight a case this way. I have to say that there is little respect for such a way of running politics. So I also have to ask these from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, who are part of the climate agreement. Is it such that the airport at Rygge is going to reduce air traffic at Gardermoen, or is he going to increase air traffic in Norway? One cannot select both. And is that how to understand that one meaning that train, e.g. lynchage in Gothenburg, is tricked, and is it tricked in Norway, which one has meant so far because one wants to take climate responsibility? Would you like to expand large airports to have more air traffic? I don't understand how this hangs together. I'm most surprised that you don't think about cross-subsidizing, that you don't think about climate, and that you don't think about it a year ago, when one said that this is it! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1740	The President reminds us that speaking in this Chamber should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1744	It's always exciting with a social debate, and it just increases on. I seem to hear today that someone from the opposition has found a new argument that one has not managed to follow up the national transport plan. The same argument is also used for the local economy to be more or less downgraded. It has now been developed here today that you did not have enough money – that is why you did not get the national transport plan you had, and the ambitions you had put in there. But it's actually a very simple answer to that: why were you so concerned about giving tax credits in the billions class? Had it not been a good idea to use that money to expand infrastructure, also in relation to the local economy, etc.? You could go back a little bit and look at the numbers. It was a weathering of the municipalities, it was a weathering of the railway, it was a weathering of the road network, etc. etc. That's how I could still have. So here you had the opportunity. I actually think you could have been so honest to say that no, we want to give tax credits. I think that's an honest thing. You don't get both bag and bag. It was discovered when you were in position, but it has not been discovered now when you are in opposition. Then I have to take the Hurtigruten a little visit. I think that the representative Jan Sahl is going quite far when he accuses the Ministry of Transport of both exaggeration and exaggeration in relation to the fast-haul agreement. Now it is possible that it took a little longer than you would like, but things take as said time. And I have to remind you that in the last period it was actually that if the Bondevik II administration had been upset about what they wanted, the whole sailing pattern of the Hurtigruten would have melted up. That was actually what was about to happen. But then the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party saved the sailing pattern, and they rescued social actor number one – Hurtigruten. President, I must be allowed to say, thank God. We deliver in relation to what we have promised, and I think it's important to bring it with us. I don't want to call it sutring, maybe, but I actually think that you put up and do it in debates now, both inside this hall and outside this room, and you try to create dissatisfaction -- dissatisfaction out there, dissatisfaction among people. I do not think we can succeed in that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1761	The representative of the Fall was concerned with enthusiasm, and I can delight the representative Falled to travel to North Travel, she will still be able, when the Advance Party has the power, to do so, only she has not intended to travel from the airports of Stord, on the Notodden or in the Ski; for the Government has not wanted these airports to be allowed to enter the Avinor Cross Subsidy System as it is today. But the Progress Party wants those airports to be paid in the same way as the other airports that are inside this system, but then in the form of a state payment, in the same way as the Hurtigruten and with the purchase of passengers by rail. I am also pleased that several representatives have now been to Telemark, because I am also going to bring a little Christmas greeting, as the representative Oppebøen Hansen did. I agree very much with what the representative Upbeøen Hansen said about the challenges facing the state, and I think it is good that the Council of State was able to come up with something, even though it came a little after the budget had actually been presented, and there was so much speculation that I think maybe both the Council of State and others in the government apparatus saw that there was no other possibility than that one had to bring something. But $15 million. kr for a project of SEK 3.6 billion is far from what is needed to establish a proper rail connection between Grenland and Oslo, Lillehammer and Halden. So the government boasts silently of all the investment in road safety. In the case of middle parts, I have registered that you are very concerned that you should put in place 30 km of new middle parts on the existing two- and three-field road. Yeah, that's very good. But it's actually like on some of these sections you don't have to have proper middle parts, but you have to have a little plastic bag along the fag that you've tested out in some places. It's not because it's the best measure, but it's because you can't afford to build proper, proper middle parts on the 30 km road that the government is now laying down to get in place. I am glad that there are immediate measures to Telemark, but I should like to see it come in the form of proper middle parts on the whole stretch that has now been said to do something about. I also think it is sad that the government does not see the need to put in place level-free crossings. As the action groups have worked for E18, with the challenges you have there, and especially in the Bamble in Telemark, I find it a pity that the Council of State has not worked to get this done. Finally, because I feel that there is a big difference in the perception here in this room among the government parties and the majority parties and the opinion out there: today, Telemark County Council is going to adopt its county budget, and so you're going to cut over 22 million. kr on transport, because it has not been the way this government tries to produce it as, that the municipalities and county councils have received so much money. This will really affect road maintenance and road investment in Telemark in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1774	I notice that there are many opposition representatives, especially the Advance Party, who believe that this government does not make a difference. I want to say that when we grant 100 million. kr to upgrade in the Oslo tunnel and the Oslo S signalling system, so that things get better there, it makes a difference. When we follow it up by granting another 200 million. kr there, makes a difference. Money can be viewed as an expression of ‘difference made’, and it might be a little bit easier to understand it. It's not boast, it's reality. But that's maybe what's so annoying for the opposition parties that you have to go up here and raise the voice to the weary. Transport has been made a ‘personal responsibility’ by this government, it was said, because you have to pay tolls. Per Sandberg went so far as to say that it was easy for the representative Wickholm when he could spend other people's money. Well, I wonder what money Per Sandberg spends when he spends billions on road construction through other measures in this country. I expect that it is not from my own account, but that it is either the Community's oil income, tax income or other taxes that go to pay it. Anyway, there's money that the Norwegian community owns together, and that we in this room decide how to use it. Money collected in a basket along a road is no less valuable than money taken over the tax slip. I don't understand why the representative Sandberg and others in the Progress Party have such a hard time getting it. Then I get criticism from the representative Sortevik because I have not read the comments, or what he now encouraged me to do. My point is that the Progress Party cuts into the reward scheme. They say they don't believe in whips and carrots to improve traffic in Oslo. Here, you just believe in carrots. But this is related, because we have to be able to block some streets, so that the bus can drive faster through, and that hundreds of people sitting on the bus, should not stand in line, in order for the bus to become more attractive, and for driving collectively to become more attractive. Through the comment that they have not understood, the party of progress and Sortevik has not taken over the very important analysis as, among other things, is found in the proposal for a national transport plan, that it is not possible to build on the traffic problems in cities. There's not enough space to build big roads here in Oslo center to be able to complete all the traffic if we don't make sure that some people get on the bus, tram or T-Bahn, and then we have to introduce these.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1783	When I hear Kenneth Svendsen, I am reminded of the speaker who stood on the speaker's chair and saw in his manuscript where it said: Bad arguments, raise the voice! That's often how it's going to be. Why are we here? Yes, among others. because, by means of its budgetary commitments, the Progress Party did not use the power to influence the policy on trade in that country to increase investment or business start-ups, either in Northern Norway or elsewhere in that country. That's why we're here. And to Sortevik: No, this government is not forcing budget increases because of a crisis. In contrast to previous governments, this government has actually increased the budget for trade in a high economy. You can go back and see if you can find governments that have done so. In the past, there has been an increase in the budget when it has been used as counter-cyclical measures, but this government has thus increased the budget to a peak. It's called priority. I don't know if the Progress Party knows that word, because the Progress Party has as it knows money for everything. Therefore, it is not so strange whether the other party is owed to come after, because it is not possible to find a single proposal that the Progress Party has not suggested at any time. Then it might be so that one in retrospect might say that someone had to come after. To Halleraker: No, I don't have the ‘glorification’ of the public, but the ideological praise of the private, with which the Right Party and the Advance Party operate, and the presentation that one solves all the challenges of just getting privatized and putting out of competition and getting it away from public governance, I don't believe. Just the reorganization of the state road system and the phase-out where it makes full sense. It also shows this with OPS, because when a person talks about OPS, it seems that there is a free lunch, some have called it. But the three OPS projects that are built are mapped out in TØI and Dovre's evaluation, and the costs are half a billion more than traditional implementation. OPS creates bonds 25 years in advance. A rule of thumb says that the bonds are per. 25 years is about 10 pst. of the cost of expansion. This means that the calculated development cost of the three to some small projects, after all, is binding more than 600 million. kr per. years. The three projects I assume are only minor in relation to what the Right and the Advance Party will use of the OPS project. Let's say one should have $30 billion in the OPS project. So you have a $3 billion bond each year before you can start another project. There is one side of OPS that the right party doesn't like to talk about, but that's actually there. This government has actually done a lot in the field of transportation, and I think it must be allowed to say something about it. The former government slutted, and Odd Einar Dørum wrote in his book «Ombudsman at work», on p. 26: ‘It wasn’t often the case that a Council of State from the Right took the word ‘train’ in its mouth — it was difficult to get through with traffic in the previous government. There might be a reason why we're there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1796	I can't help but wonder about Martin Engeset's attack on this Moss Airport Rygge government, when we know that it was the Bondevik government, where his right party was a member, who gave a concession with thanks to air movements and passengers in 2004. I have not yet received a reply as to where the representative Engese's commitment was when the concession was granted. The representative Holten Heimdal was an adviser to the government. Where was she? Passenger roofs and roofs for flight movements are provided with an alert requirement in the concession. It is also underlined by former Minister for Transport Skogsholm in an interview on the relationship with the Gardermoen in Today's Business in 2004. This government has given the aerodrome a tariff-regulative and extended opening time and has opened the aerodrome. The Council of State has replied that the matter is now under consideration and that she wants a constructive dialogue with the airport. I appreciate those signals. But I would prefer to be this matter besides. That we now have it, the representative, Engeset, must be involved in taking responsibility for it. As for how we from the Eastfold Workers' Party will vote, I can reassure those who are concerned about it that we will vote in favour, but the matter will be clarified in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1807	Many speakers have pointed out that the railways are important, and I could not agree more. That is why it is good that this government has invested in the railways – in the maintenance and development of new sections. I understand that representatives from the districts also think the road is important, and not only do I understand it, I'm going to stretch so far as to say that I have a great understanding of it, but in the central east region, where over half of our population lives, I think railway is more important to prioritize than large, new road projects. It provides better accessibility for people and goods, and it provides a much more environmentally friendly transport. During the transport budget debate last year, I also had an article that began about like this, but with a little hint of disappointment at the end. A new budget has given rise to new hope and a new conclusion. I'm very happy that for next year it's set of 50 million. kr for the planning of new double track Oslo-Ski. For everyone who lives along the Eastfold Railway, this is an important signal that this bottleneck that has been planned to be repaired since before I was born, now finally seems to be going towards realization. The planning means have been started. Now we're waiting excitedly for the national transport plan. Cross-political expectations along the Eastfold line are that the new double track Oslo–Ski is in and that the rest of the route towards Europe is followed. It is also worth noting that the premise that this project is at all relevant for realization is that the railway investment framework has increased as much as they have done during this government. With the framework that the previous government provided, this would be an impossible project at all to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1818	There have been some positive movements in the right part of this period. The right has become a very clear railway party, and the Progress Party is also getting closer. Now they're actually just cutting 200 million. kr for government purchases for unprofitable railway traffic. In other words, they have recognised what we have been saying for many years, that we must solve the transport challenges and the climate challenges, and bring down the road accidents, and we must bet on the railways. So Borghild Tenden and the rest of the debt have the position because we're talking a little bit too much about the previous government. But if someone has talked a lot about the previous government, it's actually Borghild Tenden himself – not because they were very involved in transportation, but because of all the restructurings and structural measures that were done, and there are also suggestions in the configuration from several parties now. That's when it believed that when there's not enough money, there's going to be a solution to the challenges. When it comes to the separation of Mesta, it was asked where the money had gone. Yes, in that case the opposition itself must document it, because my claim has always been that here the win has gone up in the spin, and so it has. Since the State Road Service had its own manufacturing and maintenance department, they had the opportunity to assess the cost of putting it on offer against the cost of what they could do themselves. It's the one. The second is that the administration of supply and function contracts also costs a lot, and the feedback message is, on the contrary, that road maintenance has decreased because of it. When it comes to the debate on Smoking, I'm a little busy with one thing, and it's that the Gardermo has to pass as a main airport, which is going to help finance the unprofitable airports around. I note that the Progress Party believes that the state will also pay for it, in line with the fact that the state will pay all the way and not have any tolls. And then we're in this debate: who has to pay? The fact is, someone has to pay. As Truls Wickholm was in, there are Norwegian taxpayers who have to pay. But at the same time, the Progress Party will also bring down the tax. It's not like we're spending more of our money than the Progress Party is doing. The Prom doesn't have any other money than what we have, all of us. Everyone who knows the system, you know that a government always decides how much money you spend, and that transportation will be part of it. Then our task is to get the most done with that part. And without the carist having bitten himself, it had been done much less that way. Otherwise, I bump into the Progress Party when it comes to tolls, because they actually say that they are for it if there are reversion routes. But at the same time, they are proposing to remove the home of road traffic laws in order to keep up the possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1835	I have followed closely in the debate today. It is true that no matter what committee you sit on, you always have a side view towards the Committee on Transport and Communications, because everyone comes from this country, and we're busy with transportation and good communication. We got a letter to Stortinget from the Moor and Romesdal states in October. It says: ‘The road network is in such a condition that it weakens the competitiveness of our business. The road network hinders the development of robust construction and labour market regions’. That was very clear speech. On the other hand, what I want to focus on is the ferry situation in More and Romesdal. Møre and Romsdal are a large ferries, and the ferries are a nerve in the communications. It is not 2008 that the ferries are added to dock so early in the evening that people have to stay at the airport when they have been to Oslo for a trip and come on the last plane. Nor does 2008 mean that when you take the first flight to Oslo, you have to travel the day before and spend the night at the airport. So, two to three days goes by on an Oslo trip. It's bad district policy, and I remember who's responsible for exactly that policy of transportation, in this period. It is disappointing that the government parties have not invested funds to do just that. So it is that the ferry offer is on offer at certain intervals. There are then two regions in Møre and Romesdal which cannot send out the offer to buy a tender because they have not received a signal as to the standard and quality of the ferry berths, so that real conditions can be met by the tenderer. There are two major regions in More and Romesdal. It's the Inner Sunnmore and the North Murder. It is frustrating that such a signal is not given, and it is important that, when it is asked, we provide a modern and forward-looking environmental standard for the next ten years, and that the ferry berths are upgraded so that modern and environmentally friendly materials can be used. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council give a signal to the Directorate of Road on the standard in Ferry Kaia, so that there will be a continuation of the tender process in More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1853	It was good to see that the outsourcing of Vegvesen business and the release of Mesta has made savings, but much of it has gone wrong by increasing both oil and asphalt prices so much that functional contracts have become more expensive. When one listens to Torstein Rudihagen, one sometimes gets the impression that he would wish – I guess he has also said – that it was not done, that Mesta was divorced. Then the question of the government parties is: why isn't Mesta then taken back and into the fold of the Road Service, if it had been so much better? I have not experienced that the Government has transformed some of the reforms that were introduced in the previous period, but they have not brought any new ones either. Then it was for the climate comrade Langeland, who was concerned about the air traffic on Rygge. What Langeland probably knows is that most of the planes on Rygge are heading south. That is, if you fly from Rygge and are from Eastfold, you don't drive miles up to the Gardermoen, and you don't fly down again. And that is, you save thousands of gallons of fuel for every take-off, and that's why Smoking is a very good option for a lot of people in the Eastern region. In addition, if the development of the Oslo–Ski railway is speeded up, Rygge will be an even better climate alternative in the future. Then the representative Tenden and I were accused of suing, by the solar beam from the bar. Now I saw that the solar beam just left the building, so it's hard to get a direct hold of it, but it's probably referred to. When I was little, my grandmother taught me a stiff as I cried, and it began like this: 'Don't sutra e and don't cry e.' The rest I'll take on another, appropriate occasion! But I think proposing new solutions, as the opposition has done, proposing an alternative policy, is not sutling. Asking for cooperation and broad solutions in transport policy is not suspensive. It is politics, it is parliamentaryism, it is debate – something that has become less and less room for this government, with the form of debate we now have, where the opposition is promoting proposals on proposals, but is being met with a cold shoulder. I had hoped for a little more attendance. I had hoped that those who are to get their passenger roof removed could vote for it. I had hoped that we could get a real vote on some issues. But there won't be anything of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1866	The President would point out that describing each other in the way the representative did should be avoided in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1869	I could not fail to hear the representative Truls Wickholm say in his post that he is proud of the Government's fire extinguishment in the Oslo tunnel. The alternative is to shut down the entire Oslo tunnel because the signalling system breaks down completely. Then to the representative Wickholm's concept of money. Wickholm asks questions about what money the Progress Party uses when we say that tolls are not public money and part of the public checkout. We're all paying in to the government over the tax bill. So the least you can ask is that we get public benefits back for it. It can't be that we pay taxes first, and then we have to pay for all the public goods afterwards. But we do that in the transport sector. We pay our share through the tax bill, we pay tolls, and then we also pay tolls. Take, for example: the area where I live, in Rome. There we now have toll gestures in every direction. If you're going out to drive a few kilometers, you're going to have to pay tolls. We're now getting on the E6 northwards a system of antenna points, where we're going to pay tolls depending on how far we're going. It is not nice that ordinary people react to this, because what is the public responsibility is now being won out considerably. Then I am aware that Truls Wickholm wants all the tolls that are demanded to go to build up public transport. He has no limits on charging tolls, and what they're going to be used for. I'm excited when the government now comes up with proposals for Oslopackakt 3, where the limit of this is really going to go. I am also concerned about some of the statements about Oslopackak 3 that now come from representatives of the State Road Administration. I think that, among other things, in the case of E18 westward, there will be significant changes. I also record that Gorm Kjernli spoke hot for the double track, and that he used the words «waits excited». It is clear that if the representative from the Workers' Party now does not know if there is money for the double track in the NTP, I feel very worried about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1883	There has been a hectic pre-Christmas day in Stortinget today, so I just got with me half an ear that more representatives from the Progress Party, including the committee leader, believe that I do not have enough brain capacity to see that there is a difference between 2008 and 2009. We have obviously made a very delicate point when several of us from the government parties point out that they are probably more an intellectual and theoretical exercise of all the proposals and proposals of the Progress Party, including them on the transport side, and that they will never ever meet the real life of Norway. Of course, 2008 and 2009 differ. That's why the State budget, which was treated earlier in the autumn, has 14 extra oil billions in it. We saw when we discussed the budget before it was presented, until the end of September – 26 September was the last time it was discussed before it was presented – that more troubled and worse times in the Norwegian economy would come. Then we have experienced during the fall that things have changed not from bad to worse, but at least considerably deteriorated. When things change, it's not an offer to say that listen here, now it's important to focus on jobs, to get people to work, now we need more impulses in the Norwegian economy. My point was just to point out that when, over all the years of extreme economic recession, where everyone has been in work, where there's been too much mosquitoes everywhere, you've suggested about the same things that you suggest when there's a financial crisis, you have a little problem explaining why this was so tricked last year, if it's been tricked this year. I still think we have a good explanation for that. Then I have also learned that the representative Svendsen of the Progress Party will not be taught by me and others in economic policy in terms of financing, among other things. roads and railways. No, I don't need to teach progress party people. They've got the Right People to do that. I'm just referring to what the Right People are saying. They say very clearly that it is entirely inappropriate to conduct the kind of economic policy that finances all the over-the-counter proposals in the railway, road and other transport sectors. It might be interesting to hear what the Right fractional leader, Trond Helleland, thinks about this case, whether he believes that these are interesting discovery proposals, and whether he agrees with his own party leadership, which is clearly no, it is totally inappropriate to pursue an economic policy in the transport sector and other sectors in a possible future bourgeois government in the way Per Sandberg and others suggest it should be done. That's why I've allowed myself to say that this is a theoretical exercise. The suggestions will never see the light of day, unless the Progress Party sees two things. One is an eternal life in opposition, because there are no other parties here on the Storting will take up these proposals with fire pliers. The second is that they went back to the degrees of their appointments and election promises that they had to meet the voters afterwards and say sorry, this was nothing of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1892	Hedmark is one of several counties that do not have air traffic or boat traffic. That is why it is particularly important that enough money is allocated to the railways and roads, which is what the Progress Party wants. This also wants some other parties – especially in the election campaign. I especially remember the election campaign in 2005, when the Senter party traveled around and promised money. In particular, rv. 3 and the sum of 100 million. kr was mentioned and promised each year. A lot of people believed that. But after that time, when the Senter Party got one representative from Hedmark on the thing, when the Senter Party got government power, and when the Senter Party even the Minister of Transport, little happened. In the context of the 2005 revised state budget, we received, i.e. Advance party, set up 20 million. kr in Hedmark and 20 mill. NOK in Tøndelag, as well as that some extra money just came to this road. There we got width expansion with much more, which the residents as well as the business absolutely needed. But a lot is still missing. Transport policy is both industrial policy and district policy. It is about good and safe roads so that business can transport its goods back and forth as needed and that people can live and live along a road, such as: rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox It must be safe to travel by car, but it must also be safe to follow our roads as soft road users. That's good district policy. That's why it was interesting to read Hamar Arbeiderblad 25 November this year, where it says that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, Geir Pollestad of the Center Party, didn't bring any promises of money to this road. That's to keep people fooled, now I mean. Money has Norway. We have machines and people. If there is a lack of these two things, these are to be found in our neighboring country. Otherwise, it is important that work on improving e.g. E6 continues continuously. This saves time for everyone, and it becomes significantly cheaper than splitting up the project. The same applies to a different route of the heath, i.e. rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox The trasé elections debate and other interests must not be allowed to stop such good, vital projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1907	It has been interesting to follow this debate. There have been different descriptions, and with the danger of becoming a bit local, I want to ask one single question, and that is: Where is the journey lift in Troms? Since I am from Troms, I have been driving a lot around on the roads there, and I have not yet been able to record where that promise is. It's possible it might be in an 80-zone, and that I've been driving past for 80 km/h and haven't got it all with me, but there's probably someone from the red-green parties, or the councillor, who can come up and tell me where this travel promise is. Now it is also the case that I often meet with the business community and with the different regional councils in Troms. We get one response, that's: we need more bets on the way. Troms is a state that consists of many large and small roads. One has a business life spread along the coast, depending on exports and facing major problems because the road network is collapsing completely. The Minister of Transport criticized in his contribution the Advance Party for having money for everything. Then I can only assure the Minister for Transport that there are several debates in this Chamber that are not about transportation. If the Minister for Transport wants to, she can attend the next debate to be held in Stortinget. The Economic and Social Committee shall, inter alia: treat the agricultural budget and, as the Council of State can safely determine, the Progress Party makes a slight reduction in that budget. We are also doing so with regard to the aid and aid budget. We're also doing it within the cultural budget. So we don't have money for the right absolute everything. But we have a different ability: we have an ability to give priority – to give a very sharp priority. But I record that there are several people who have money in these days. Jens Stoltenberg is out in the address newspaper today and says that it is “mass money”, and you are willing to use them. When we dealt with the state budget 14 days ago, this government could not afford to spend money. Now the pipe has a different sound. I'm glad, but I'm just wondering, why is it so late? I have also noticed that the government has gone out and said that now the municipalities will have 3 billion more. It was completely impossible 14 days ago, now it's all of a sudden possible to use more funds. So I think that first of all the government should talk to one tongue. They should have the same language in this room as when journalists ask them questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1920	Martin Engeset has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1923	I drew myself first to bring an unreserved regret, and second, I will come with a spontaneous enthusiasm. In a previous post, I was injured to prevent Eastfold Workers' Party's three representatives on the eastern fold bench from voting against proposal No. 21 on page 103 of the setting. In a later article, the representative Irene Johansen pointed out that she was actually going to support this proposal, which I then react with a spontaneous enthusiasm. So I'm sorry that I got hurt trying to get her to vote in accordance with what she had done in the transport committee. I am very pleased that she has now changed her mind. In line with what's been practice so far in this magnification period, we're used to the red-green voices coming together, in herds and herds, here in the hall. That it does not happen in this matter, is very, very happy. That means that this vote can actually be very, very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1932	Truls Wickholm has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1935	It must have irritated the representative of Asmyhr that I pointed out from this pulpit that it is no more moral to use tax money, tax money or oil money to build a road than it is to use tolls. It's the same people who have paid them, and it's the state that puts the money into life and makes sure that infrastructure is built. Asmyhr wants good for the money he pays as a driver, and he'll get it. For more people who use public transport, less queues on the roads mean they get something left for what they pay for. But I think the principle that it's the people who pay is the one who's going to get something back is a little weird. I have not yet seen in the Advance Party's budget that those who pay the alcohol tax are the ones who are going to get it back, or it is those who pay the tobacco tax, who are going to get it back. That could be interesting for some of us, I think. I also react to being assigned opinions I do not have, that I am not too wise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1944	I take the floor primarily for an explanation of vote. As I said in my article today early – at least it feels like this – politics is not static, fortunately for it. We in the Left are driving policy development. I am influential, and I am influenced by a wise woman like Irene Johansen. We work well together on double tracks. She's concerned about environmental policy, which is also me and the Left. Locally, the left has been skeptical, but not entirely reprehensible to put a roof on the passenger numbers at Rygge Airport, which has been a major debate about here today. I believe that in the Left we cannot say no to both the third runway and the removal of the roof on the number of passengers on the Back. So the left will vote in favour of proposal No. 21, with the reason Trond Helleland presented here in an excellent way a little while ago, that it is simply less environmentally friendly and more environmentally polluting that people move from Eastfold to Gardermoen than that they fly straight from Rygge Airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1951	I took the floor because I was surprised to have followed this debate. It's pretty similar to last year's debate. It is very important that the Progress Party has money for everything. That's kind of the excuse for not supporting any of the proposals that are coming. Then it is with wonder that I read the address paper today, where it says under the heading ‘Just to get started’: «State Minister Jens Stoltenberg says there is a lot of money. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen says there is no reason to lie on the sofa." Now it's just to find projects and get started, so we keep investments up to a level that makes us limit unemployment. What is this money when the Prime Minister talks about if it's not fresh money? Is it the case that the Prime Minister and Wickholm are going to travel around and build toll stations for this money? Or is the fresh means the Prime Minister is talking about? Is the Prime Minister going to cut off something we don't know? I think it's fresh money, and that's what the Progress Party wants to put into its budgets. We believe it is a need. I am pleased that the telemark county council has been very quick in the lab. It has identified projects corresponding to approx. Three billion kroner, and ready to send them over to the Prime Minister and over to Kristin Halvorsen. It's just to distribute the money, you're a big step forward in Telemark. But is it that those who work around the county councils or the road bosses should not believe what the prime minister says? Won't there be any money? It seems very strange in the light of the criticism that has come against the Progress Party, which spends a little more money than the other parties. I hope the Prime Minister still represents this government and these government parties, and that there are teams in the words he has made today in the Address Paper, that there is a lot of money – it's just to find the projects and get started. The Progress Party has pointed to many of those projects, so it's just to support the proposals from there, you're doing what the Prime Minister has signaled today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1963	Trond Helleland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1966	I'll be brief. In the light of what the representative Tenden said, she wanted to support proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party on Smoking Airport, and also on the basis of the signals we've received, at least halfway, that some people might think to vote for that proposal, I simply ask that there be a vote on proposal No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1972	Hallgeir Langeland has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1975	It is argued that one should not use the Gardermo and thus save fuel, and there is a good environmental policy reason to change meaning, says Left. But then there must be a huge growth at the airport at Rygge, so one can make money. So one accumulates more traffic and more pollution. So the logic of this I don't understand if a should use the climate to argue for it. Another thing is what Engeset and Holten Heimdal argue – a rematch, because they think this is tricked to Eastfold. But when it's about the climate, it doesn't hang on to anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1980	I can't do that either to comment on the Left's reason to turn around in the case of Back. The situation today is that Rygge has a passenger roof of 774 000. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is very clear that it is a passenger roof. The Christian People's Party is a credible party, and stick to the truth. I think we can trust that. The ceiling was set in the previous government period. If one is to reach the passenger ceiling, there must first be a growth of 300000 passengers to – today there are 450000 passengers – up to 774000. So it is quite right, as the representative Langeland says, that then the left has to calculate with strong growth in air traffic on Rygge. I'll register it. It is not the Minister of Transport who opposes the positive development of Rygge. That is why I have also said that we must engage in a constructive dialogue. But it's very surprising, given the profile of the Left, that the Left is using such an argument to turn this case around. I can't do that. When there is something else that has been up in the debate here today, the last thing that was mentioned: the economic reality of the Progress Party, it is clear that it is completely different from that of other political parties on the Stortinget. The party of progress is a large party and the only party on the Stortinget that never sits in government. Of course, it is the party that fights to be taken seriously and to have influence on political decisions. But in politics, even 25 pst. digestion gives little counting if 75 pst. is against. And, with respect to reporting, influence in politics can be difficult to achieve as long as the Progress Party defys the extreme position on economic policy, aid, immigrants, climate, environment and agriculture – to name some of what was mentioned here – some important policy areas. The 2009 budget year appears to be an extra exciting year, with the September decision as a peak. For people who are preoccupied with traffic, it must be important to look at results in terms of increased promises rather than airy suggestions in opposition that have never been realized in position. There may be a lot of lessons to learn from the words "never change a win team".
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1991	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e1994	I thought I'd avoid using it for the last minute, but it's almost not to avoid when the Minister of Transport ends a debate in the United Kingdom with indirectly accusing other parties of lying. When you say that the Christian People's Party is the only credible party that doesn't go false, you indirectly insinuate that other parties lie. And I think the Council of State should stay away from that. The second thing about the Progress Party: I've always been very surprised that a party of 6 p.m., like the Center Party, year after year is able to trick the voters into fighting by promising gold and green forests through election campaigns – and doing the opposite when you get in position. It surprises me, and I think I should mention that we are getting a study of how the Centre Party is doing every time it does its job to be responsible for such irresponsible economic policies – in the area of district policy and in the area of infrastructure policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2001	Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2004	First I want to say that Holten is no longer a wholesaler, but it's Hemdal. This is not about a rematch about Moss Airport Rygge. We relate to the guidelines and framework conditions laid down, and what is in the contract. As the representative Borghild Tenden said in his post, the Left wants to say no to a third runway on the Gardermo. There is a point of view to which the undersigned subscribes, even though we as a party have not yet taken a position on it – but in this context I consider this matter to be a climate policy. As one of those who negotiated the climate agreement, it's important to me that we don't get to the day when we say yes to a third runway. But if we're going to be able to resist it – as Langeland heard from my post, we're a mobile people; we're going to want to fly – we also need to facilitate people's flight in the most sustainable way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2013	I can't let it hang in the air that I owe someone to go with a lie. I did not say that, I said I was pleased that the representative from the Christian People's Party was very clear that there is a roof when it concerns the number of passengers. That's the meaning that the Ministry of Transport has always put in it, from before I entered the department. It was the previous government that made the concession decision. I just took it further. I am very pleased that it has been said clearly in this Chamber – also by a representative who has strong interests in the matter, who is from the county and of course would like to change this. I have a great understanding of that – absolutely. When it comes to the counting of votes, there has to be a reflection that people around the country have to do, that they have to do 6.5 pst. who voted for the Central Party in the last election has received a lot of currency for their votes. They have had many political achievements in municipal policy, in social policy, in industrial policy – in areas where the Central Party has been an important voice and an important factor in changing policy in the right direction, including in agricultural policy, which has been mentioned here. Perhaps someone has never gotten any less for their votes than those who voted for the Progress Party. What specific cases have the Progress Party been implemented in Stortinget? What are the concrete results of everything that was promised in the election campaign? I can draw up a fairly long list of what the Centre Party has implemented, has been changed, has been produced by political results. So I think I can stand up clearly because rarely has anyone gotten a bigger profit. And that's what people should think about when they're going to go to elections next year. It is not necessarily such that the size of the party has an impact on Norwegian policy. The centre party was also a separate larger party during a period of the 1990s. We had no greater influence than we have with today's central party representatives on Stortinget – who are on and do a good job for the voters who have chosen these representatives from their counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2024	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2027	It's going to be exciting to see in the minutes what the Council of State actually said. As I perceived it, she said she was happy that the Christian People's Party stood up with credibility and truth. And if that doesn't mean that you blame the others – which you criticize – for not doing that, at least that's what I realized the Council of State did, and I think it's sad. Finally, when you listen to the government council, which says they bet so much, and they do so much, I don't understand. When everyone from the government parties in this room says we'll do more, when the prime minister has said that it's just to get started, I don't understand that you can't agree to go for those proposals and actually start the project – do it right away and don't wait until good over the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2036	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, four. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5–7 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1395]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2076	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate in Case No. 5-7 will be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2087	I would like to say that the budget presented by the Government in the various areas is good budgets; they point forward. Appropriations for research, innovation and development are being increased. Together with the innovation message, which was recently presented, the SkattenFUNN scheme is ringing, among other things. If there is a significant increase in laboratory capacity, this is a budget that largely responds to the challenges we face in the future. I want to spend some time on agriculture, because I think it's where you have the biggest differences. Looking at the position, this verbal proposal is promoted over the table, which will have a significant impact on the framework conditions for an important industry in large parts of the country. Proposals are being made for quota rental on co-operatives. You have to get rid of the housing obligation and the ban on sharing. One has to increase the maximum quota for single use. And you're going to increase the concession limit for eggs. This is in addition to the fact that both the Advance Party and the Right Cutters are partly drastic in the agreements already concluded. In the beginning, I would say that I distance myself from the reality that these parties like to promote on Norwegian agriculture, namely that there is a backward-looking industry where little happens, and where there is little willingness to change, not least from this government. Rather on the contrary: Agriculture is an industry that is in transition – I would say it is in great change, perhaps it is so fast that there is a problem in itself in many places. In addition, there is a great deal of innovation, and there is a lot of optimism to see. It's a sense of reality that these parties, too, should have taken over and marketed, instead of being unequivocally negative. Then I want to say that the proposals that have been promoted must have been partly promoted in the light of lack of knowledge about what they will represent. The progress party's halving of transfers over the state budget is not going to take time to comment, but it says a little bit when you just say that you should increase the concession limit for eggs. Had it been known what this would lead to for the hundreds of families who have invested millions of dollars in new production equipment – that would have meant ruin, that would have meant removing the framework conditions that depend on driving serious nutrition. It is not worth promoting these types of proposals over the table – at least not without communicating the consequences of them. Then it is that when we discuss this budget, and we are within the time we are in, it is in time ahead of us the most important and the major challenges lie, in relation to the financial crisis, in relation to the economic downturn. I want to give credit for the way the government has so far handled this. The financial crisis was met early and resolutely and provided good credit access to the banks. The challenges facing the export industry were met, both in the case of guarantee schemes and in the case of credit schemes. And far-reaching action packages have been notified by the state. Listening to parts of the opposition gives the impression that this can be solved through public money use, through public instruments. It's a reality I don't share. We can solve a lot, there's an opportunity to do a lot of what's done in the public sector, but we also have to take care of business, we have to take care of the value creation that we're going to live on in the future. The most important thing is that interest rates go down. It is also very important that credit is somehow made available to business. Here I believe that we need to be flexible, and we need to be quick – just as the government has been when it has delivered in this area before. This is also an opportunity for conversion. It is an opportunity for a green transition where a business and a society that is more environmentally friendly and energy efficient and produces goods and services that are sustainable in the future. I think investment is very important in such a perspective. I think we should take it further. I also think that the measures taken in Sweden with regard to tax deductions for environmental measures are interesting. I will conclude by saying that we have hopes that we will put in place a comprehensive package of measures that stimulate both the public and the private sectors, and that we will do so in a way that promotes sustainable conversion, thus making Norwegian business and Norwegian society better equipped to meet the future, when the arrows point out again. Then I will end by recommending the chapters in the setting for which I am the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2116	I have to say that there were quite a number of dubious claims against the opposition in the Borten Moes post. One would almost think that the representative Borten Moe has the impression that the opposition has no understanding of what the world looks like outside this house. I'll take a great distance from that. After all, the centre party is seen as a peasant party – we get to come back to that in a later article – where agricultural policy is the most important policy area in this country. But I think the Center Party should be equally concerned with all the small and medium-sized enterprises that are out in Building Norway. When the representative Borten Moe says that the government's budget is well adapted to the economic situation we're in, I have to ask him to stick his finger in the ground. What action package will Borten Moe bring to small and medium-sized enterprises in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2125	I think the representative has to see the whole of the post that I made. First, there was an article that focused on something far more than agriculture, mainly things other than agriculture. Secondly, we are broadly stimulating within this budget continued economic development, continued innovation, and continued development in the right direction. Then it's announced by the Government that you're going to bring a package of measures. It is obvious that our ambition there is something more than what I have heard from many progress party representatives lately, including. that we are going to spend money on the public sector to solve public problems. It is obvious to me that parts of this incentive package need to stimulate the private sector, ensuring value creation and jobs for the future. Tax is a grip that we have to assess. I called for a review of the depreciation rules, including: I believe that I keep my words well when I say that both this government and the undersigned have a broad commitment to small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2134	I would like to start by saying that the representative Moe has had many exciting plays and many forward-looking and modern ideas, which are in line with the views of the Left on modernising legislation. This is particularly true in agriculture. In the noble-law case in Stjørdal, the representative Moe said to the nations: ‘The Minister of Agriculture may weaken the law of nobility if he allows the right of nobility to prevail over the possibility of running the land’. And on the other hand, ‘The Minister of Agriculture should not reverse the decision of the State Agriculture Administration’. The left considers that the Minister of Agriculture's signal in this matter is very negative in view of the future of agriculture. We know how it went. What are the views of the head of the business committee that the Minister of Agriculture listens more to the local party of the Central Party in Stjørdal than clear signals from the business committee, the head of the business committee and the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2151	Let me start by saying that I, the Minister of Agriculture and the majority of the population, at least agree on the starting point, that we want to keep the law of nobility, that we regard the law of nobility as a protection for Norwegian food production and a spread of property rights, especially in times of crisis. It's a position that's radically different from what the Left has taken, because where you're basically against the odel law, you want it removed. Then I believe that the law of no part has a two-part measure. On the one hand, support should be given under a production farm, a sustainable agricultural production that provides sufficient profitability. That's one of the main reasons for the Odel Act. On the other hand, there is consideration for inheritance and consideration for the right of family ties. The case in Stjørdal is a difficult weighing. I record that the undersigned and the Council of State concluded differently, but for our part, the goal is the same – we want to maintain a no partial law in Norwegian agriculture for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2158	We have an agricultural sector in transition. Every year, thousands of uses go out, we get bigger and more robust units and more professional operations. At the same time, we have agricultural regulations that make the property structure very firm. It makes the earth more and more of the earth's renting earth as the transformation takes place. Today the status is approx. 40 pst. of the agricultural area in Norwegian agriculture is land for hire. It's not a very sustainable development, because, of course, the management of leased land becomes less good than the management of its own land. Right promotes many suggestions in the configuration. We are proposing to remove price regulation, we are proposing to remove sharing bans, we are proposing to remove housing obligations, and there is a debate on the law of no part. Does the Central Party not see that agriculture, too, needs deregulation in order to have a sensible future development?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2167	What agriculture needs in the first place is a good and safe framework. I believe that we are essentially giving. I agree with some of the challenges that Right Torbjørn Hansen points to. It's also a paradox to me that so much of the land in Norway today is rented land, and that it's not owned land. I have also signaled that there is a kind of problem that we can spend more time on in the future. If you look at the suggestions that the Right is promoting, you see that you go a lot further. In reality, what is democratic Norwegian property rights, namely that it is spread over hundreds of thousands of uses, is open to large capital without any ownership obligations at all. The concession law is a fall, the law of the land is a fall, and the law of the land is a fall – the entire framework that we have built infinitely in Norway until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2172	The cord shift is over. The President would like to draw attention to the fact that we are approaching the end of the morning's meeting, and would propose that this be extended until we have completed the line change following the insertion of Mr Eldegard's representative. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2180	The government has provided an offensive budget, a budget which will also focus on industrial policy this year. All three Ministry of Economic Affairs budgets are strengthened. The painting we put in the Soria Moria statement, we follow up. Travel, maritime, marine, energy and environment initiatives are a red thread in the government’s industrial policy and in all government budgets submitted by the government. In this way we build under and further develop our competitive advantage. We have now set behind us three good years with record-breaking results in Norwegian business. The fact that we have invested in innovation and industrial development in these years as well, we can be happy now, because it makes us better equipped to meet more challenging times. The fight for jobs is the most important thing for the Labour Party. We now have a situation with the most serious financial crisis in the world since the 1930s. Many companies face major challenges when it comes to capital injection and financing, and there are many who are afraid of their jobs. Then it is important that we do what we can to keep unemployment at the lowest possible level, to secure existing jobs and to provide new jobs for those who become unemployed. The government has come up with several measures, including: banking package, the local bank's loan framework is increasing, the innovation framework Norway and GIEK are increasing, and last night letters were sent to the municipalities, asking them to facilitate the rapid start-up of new maintenance and investment projects. It's decisive that we have a government that does what it needs, and when it needs to. It is safe to know that the Government follows developments day by day and is in an extensive dialogue with the business community and employee organisations. The feedback from business is that they are the same in the measures that have come so far. In this year’s budget, many measures are important for enterprises and stimulate economic development. Innovation is a keyword here. I would also like to mention the innovation message, as the Government presented in the previous week. We strengthen industry-related research, use of design and investment in entrepreneurship and simplification. With the 2009 budget, the Government is investing more than the previous government in the field of research policy: research, recruitment, student housing and growth in the Research and Innovation Fund. We strengthen the right of nutrition research and tools to help businesses increase their research efforts. A total of DKK 1.9 billion is allocated to various research activities under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. This is an increase of 40 pst. during this period of government. We stimulate increased private research efforts through an increase in the user-driven innovation programme of 13 p.m., and we strengthen the nutrition-right research education system, Närings-Ph.d. The increased research effort is also noticeable in environmental technologies and marine bio-prospecting. Over Innovation Norway’s budget, the commitment to R & D contracts will increase by 15 million. kr. These are just some of the good bets that come into the budget. The TaxFUNN scheme is an important tool for business. The aim of the scheme is to stimulate industry’s own R & D efforts. In the 2009 government budget, the Government will pass on the current tax FUNN scheme. The evaluation of SkattenFUNN shows that this is a good and unbureaucratic tool that stimulates more research and development. It is interesting to note that the tax FUNN leads to more enterprises starting out with research and development activities. For the government, it is important to make it easier to run a business here in the country, and even if we just got to the 10th place in an international union made by the World Bank, we must always strive to improve. For this reason, the Government is working to reduce the public form for businesses an important work – this is because it is going to release time for innovation and increase value creation. Simplification is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the most important measures is the promotion of ALTINN, so that both public services and information to the business community are better. Over 200 million. kr is set to Altin next year. It is gratifying that there is a cross-political agreement that it must be invested in travel. I have noticed that even though we use much more than the previous government in the tourism industry, the party that was responsible for the previous period is not content and means that we are now using too little. But the fact that they want more of our policies and instruments is good. I also want to highlight the bet we make on design. In fact, design can be a decisive competitive advantage for forward-looking enterprises, not only in terms of aesthetic but also in terms of the user interface – and not least in terms of universal design. Here is industrial design decisive. The majority in the Committee, all outside the Advance Party, supports the Government's proposal to allow 10 million. to create a new programme to strengthen the use of design and to focus user-driven on the innovation work of enterprises. What we want to achieve with these 10 million, is spread knowledge to more companies about the benefits of becoming strategic design users. This is important in view of our objective of more innovation and innovation in business. The maritime industries are an area of activity for the Government. The maritime strategy ‘Should course’, presented last year, contains a number of measures that will lead to further growth and development in the industry. In this budget, we're going to be spending 100 million on the maritime industries. kr, etc. to strengthen industry research, innovation and competence actions. This will help the industry to deliver the most innovative and environmentally friendly solutions in the future, which are important for us to continue to be a world-leading maritime nation. We are also continuing the net pay system, and about 11,000 seafarers will be covered by the arrangements next year. This scheme is an important reason why the number of Norwegian seafarers has increased in recent years. Nor is there any doubt that the scheme has meant much to ensure the competence and recruitment of the maritime professions. Everyone can be confident that the Government will ensure a stable framework for the maritime industries in the future as well. The fact that the Progress Party will legislate the net pay scheme may say more about their uncertainty as to whether this will become a bet area under any future civil government. I would like to mention a little bit about agriculture as well. The Progress Party will cut a total of DKK 6.3 billion from the Ministry of Agriculture budget, which is, of course, completely irresponsible. But also the Right goes far when they cut 2 billion dollars in agricultural transfers, and this is money they take from the agricultural agreement. I think this is a lack of respect for an agreement that was concluded between the state and agriculture, and actually an agreement that got a great deal of outburst from the organizations during the dissent. Cutting into this agreement is irresponsible – I think I should know that right. It is gratifying that agricultural incomes are now moving in the right direction and that there is an increasing trend towards investment and optimism among farmers around the country. In difficult times, it is important to have a functioning tool and a government that invests in an active industrial policy, as the business budget also sees this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2221	I noticed that the representative Eldegard was in the middle of how important it was to cooperate with business organisations. I fully agree with that. After all, the NHO and the Joint Undertaking have provided for tax relief in the current situation. I also noticed that the representative Ola Borten Moe mentioned it as a possible measure to help small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts. I assume that the representative Eldegard is central to the government's work on creating a crisis package, as she is also head of the Workers' Party in the nutrition committee. I would therefore ask her if she believes that tax relief can be an instrument in the situation we are going into now, and be part of a crisis package from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2230	It is very important now that we get quick action and measures that have a direct impact on employment. It must be the primary objective of such a package of measures. Of course, taxes can become one of the measures, but tax measures are often going to work later. The last Friday evening post had an article in which they said that cut off the personal tax would not give rise to increased employment, nor would it have any effect on the financial crisis. What's important when we're about to create a package of measures is to see if the package provides the effect we want. Taxes can be one measure, depreciation rules another, and one can also initiate the construction of public buildings, roads and railways. But here we're going to work forward towards Christmas and a little over, and then the government comes with a package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2237	The country and the rest of the world are in a serious financial crisis. Yes, we are in a situation that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has called the most challenging since the 1930s. Then everything must be done to secure jobs, the Prime Minister has said. Despite this and despite the fact that the government has finally realized that the financial crisis is also affecting Norway, we are the only country in the world that is increasing the taxes on business in today's special situation for businesses and jobs. One question can therefore never be repeated too often: Does the representative of Eldegard and the Workers' Party believe that it is right and sensible to increase the tax bill for business now? And does the representative, Mr Eldegard, believe that such tax consolidation will help to strengthen jobs? I am thinking about what the Prime Minister has said, and also what Mr Eldegard has said here today, that we must do what we can to secure the jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2246	I can repeat that: yes, we should do what we can to secure the jobs. There have been some tax changes in this year's budget. The tax changes are made to property taxes and inheritance taxes. The main causes of these changes are distribution policy considerations. We think there should be less tax for those with smaller wealth, and more tax for those with larger wealth. That being said, I would also say that it might be a little bit oversized to say that this means a great contraction for business. In particular, when it comes to inheritance taxes, which have been an important theme, it is important to bear in mind that it is still possible to obtain a share discount for those who inherit businesses, and one has increased the right to deduct the inheritance tax from seven to twelve years, with an interest-rate exemption during that period and a right to deduct from the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2253	In the financial setting, the Christian People's Party proposed a package of measures to combat unemployment that meant the use of oil money at DKK 4.8 billion in addition to the government's proposal. This package was to go to the maintenance of roads, railways, schools, hospitals, etc. We also proposed better depreciation rules. The reason for this was that we were quite a few in what Arne Strand said on the New Year's Eve yesterday, that the budget had expired on the date of its adoption. But this package we proposed was reduced by the red-green ones. The government has now said that they will come with a package of measures in February, a package that will probably contain many of the elements contained in the Christian People's Party package. I won't ask why the red-green didn't vote for the Christian People's Party's proposal, but I'll ask why they want to wait until February with a package. I thought the fight against unemployment was job no. 1 for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2260	What has been most important during the financial crisis is to make the banking system work again, to make the lending arrangements work again, and to bring interest rates down. There are rapid and rapid responses, and there are also measures that business and banking institutions have requested. It's important. So we can come up with other measures such as launching public construction, new roads and new railways, but there are measures that seem much slower. We are primarily forced to get the banking system going, and we now see that the measures that have been taken have actually led to interest rates going downwards, and they will go further down. It is the most important measure now to speed up the Norwegian economy again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2267	So the chord change is over. The budget is now interrupting its negotiations, and a new meeting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2323	Let me start my speech by commenting on the two previous speakers who have had comments, the chairman of the committee and the representative of Eldegard. What was happy to hear in their response to the lines of the Progress Party was that one of the instruments that should be included in the crisis package notified by the Government is tax cut and tax cut for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a pleasure. There's something the Progress Party has been calling for for a long time. And that it is now also followed up by the red-green parts here on the Stortinget, we believe that it is so important that it will be impossible for the Government to avoid getting those signals. Then we also expect it to be followed up when the government comes with its package in the new year. I also want to stay a little bit at the committee chairman's posts, where he started by saying that it was a well-adapted budget to meet the future. About a minute and a half later, he made his contribution to the importance of promoting the package of measures for business. The Progress Party is also pleased that the Government gradually did, because it is an important and right tool and a step in the right direction. What becomes a little bit amazing is that at one moment you can say that this is a good budget, and the next moment admits that the budget is not good enough, but that you have to take some action. When the government budget was presented at the beginning of October, not so many days went by before everyone realized that the budget that had been presented did not agree with the real world, because the economic situation has changed dramatically for most people, not least for business. The progress party was quickly out there and asked for an additional proposition where we could catch up with the new situation. We didn't get that. However, these packages eventually came both to the financial industry and to GIEK and Export Credit. Everyone came more or less on a Sunday, and it was well-conscious from the Government to make a little bit of action visible. That's good. What was not good was that nothing could be done with the tax and tax snipers that were inside the original state budget. Then I think about the property tax and the inheritance tax. That it was presented as it was, I think it was unfortunate, and all the signals we received in the nutrition committee at business consultations were strongly opposed to that tax tightening. Unfortunately, then, the government parties have not wanted to make any changes in that way, and I think that is a pity. Now it is that we have made some proposals in our alternative state budget. We have someone here today. But I think it is important in this way to point to changes we have proposed to strengthen the budget. Argentum is one instrument that we have proposed an increase of DKK 5 billion. We believe it is important to ensure good access to risk capital for businesses at all stages that ensure the possibility of further growth and market adaptation. Because in Norway there is little private risk capital because of the tax system that we have. The international financial turmoil, of course, which has also affected us, makes access to risk capital even weaker, and the most vulnerable are the enterprises in a seed and early growth phase. In addition, we have also strengthened Innovation Norway with the same justification. We see that access to capital is increasingly difficult. The financial crisis is also affecting the fishing industry. On November 3rd, I sent a written question to the Minister for Fisheries to challenge her on how she would solve the crisis in the fishing industry. The answer I received at the time was that you saw no reason to do anything. I asked the same question 14 days ago when we dealt with the state budget, and was told that the packages that the government provided earlier in the autumn, and the package that was presented on Sunday two weeks ago, met their needs. That's why it's quite interesting when you read the newspaper FiskribladetFiskkaren of December 10, which is yesterday, where it says the following: ‘At the end of January, Minister for Fisheries and Coast Helga Pedersen will present a package of measures designed to counter the adverse impact of the financial crisis on industry.’ So this is the fishing industry. In other words, what it was not necessary to do 14 days ago has now fortunately admitted to the Minister for Fisheries that there is a need to do so. I think it's good that you come with that kind of confession. But it also shows that the answers given by the Minister for Fisheries have not been good enough in relation to the situation facing the industry. This may, of course, be due to many things, but I think it is mainly due to the fact that there has been no good enough contact and also to the serious nature of the situation facing the fishing industry. The illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing is something that the Progress Party has been engaged in for a long time. Now the government is giving itself credit for reducing illegal fishing. We can agree that it indicates that it is reduced, but still illegal fish is taken for over NOK 1 billion. We think that's too much, and we've also strengthened the Coast Guard in our alternative state budget by 350 million. kr. It's a little disappointing that we haven't got a majority for the proposal that, among other things, We have promoted today in this connection and that is in the position. We note that the rest of the opposition supports the proposal, but they support it verbally. There's really very little money going with it. That the red-green parties in this house do not support the proposal, I think it is sad. However, there is also a good news that has come in recent days, and the EU’s approach to Norwegian standards regarding the prohibition of discards of fish. I am delighted, and I am sure the representative of Sørfonn from the Christian People's Party, who has been an avid champion to tighten this up. Now the Progress Party does not go as far as the Christian People's Party in its comments, but I could have done it personally. We've chosen to be in the notes we're in, and we just get to enjoy it going in the right direction, but with small steps. Here, too, the Government has an important job to do to follow up this situation. In the context of that budget, 65 new farming concessions were also granted. It is good for these concessions to come, but the Progress Party has always thought that as long as you have the concession system, you should have an annual allocation round. It would create a much better predictability for the industry, and it would be easier for the industry to make calculations of the output they want and will also have on the market. What we don't want is to pay for these concessions, especially the situation for the fishing industry and other industries now, where access to capital and special risk capital is very difficult. We think it's going to be a big problem for the industry to finance this, and we really don't see any reason why you have to charge for this to make sure that the government gets even more money. We also find it disappointing that you cannot increase the biomass that is already present. It would also be an important step for the farming industry, by keeping the concessions and premises you have, but at the same time increasing the volume by increasing the biomass. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, the ones we stand alone about and the ones we stand together with other parties about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2354	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2359	I noticed that the representative of Korsberg was generous enough to share with the representative of Sørfonn the great result achieved by the Government through the negotiations with the EU on the draft ban. At first, Mr. Corsberg is occupied by small and medium-sized enterprises and their workforce, and it is affordable. But I've noticed that when it comes to the problem, the interest is not the same. Among other things, I have I note that with regard to information services, which are very important for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Progress Party is not as enthusiastic about the public's obligation to provide information to this part of the economy. I noticed that they wanted the Narvik telephones and Bedin to be closed, and that they would then have to provide business with these free services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2368	Now we want to liquidate them because we see that private people can take care of these interests. At the same time, we are doing this while strengthening Norwegian industry strongly through tax relief, so that they get more to route with, and can ensure that it becomes a paid user service. This is not the way the representative of Gullvåg believes that everything that the state pays is free of charge. So it's just not like that. In fact, someone has paid for this service. This has been done through a sky-high tax system, for which business is involved in paying. We want it to be user-funded, that those who use the service pay for it. At the bottom is that industry is receiving a huge tax relief, so that they can afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2377	Agriculture policy is clearly not an important issue for the Progress Party. The budget proposes to reduce agricultural transfers by DKK 6 billion. That means about. NOK 100000 per year. annual work. That means that a number of the farms we have today will simply have to be laid down. It is not possible to reduce income by NOK 100000 and continue to be a holder. Many people today struggle to make ends meet and have tough – especially in areas such as North Norway, the West, Gudbrandsdalen, Østerdalen, etc. – and that at a time when we have a shortage of food in the world. Norway has only 50 pst. self-production of food. My question to the Progress Party is: Is it appropriate to reduce the income of the farmers by NOK 100000 per day? years? Have you thought about the consequences of getting through your policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2384	Yes, it's justifiable. And, yes, we've thought through it. Now it is not the first time the Progress Party reduces the transfers to the farmers. We do that every year when we present our alternative state budget. What has been the development of the Norwegian agricultural industry is that the number of use has been evenly reduced every year. Ten years ago, it was probably about. 100000 use – now it is less than 50,000, and there are probably a few of them that pick up all or most of their income from the use. So evolution goes that way. But when we reduce transfers, we also have to look at the general relief we give to Norwegian farmers. We leave them on our own legs, and we also spend $1 billion on conversion for those who need to change their operation – it's for organic use or other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2393	I thought I'd stick to agriculture. It is an annual phenomenon — it has been for many years — that the Progress Party reduces agricultural transfers in order to balance its budget. They now took half, approx. 100 000 kroner as Inge Ryan said, but this is money that has already been allocated. There is an agreement between the country and the industry. In all other contexts, the party of progress is pleased to stress the need for predictability, not least in the field of nutrition. It would have been nice if the representative of Korsberg could tell me how an important industry should behave to the fact that the country's second largest party does not stand by the agreements that the country has already concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2398	It is no secret that the agreement entered into by the State with these organisations did not take place by means of the votes of the Progress Party. We have opposed this agreement. Nor is it a secret that we have made proposals to reduce transfers to these organisations and farmers in every single budget. But we relate to this agreement when it is concluded. Among other things, we do: no change in transfers in respect of the revised government budget. We have recorded that there are other parties that do, with money that has been granted. It is clear that we have the opportunity to make changes to the agreement that has been concluded. That's why we, among other things. have this for treatment in Stortinget. If that were the case that we couldn't do anything, there wouldn't have been any reason to deal with that part of the state budget in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2405	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2408	The budget debate today is, of course, marked by the situation in which many businesses and tens of thousands of workers are in the middle of the day, with perhaps the fastest economic shift in time. This has been a rush. As late as August 24th in the fall, in the VG, we were able to read the Workers' Party's nutritionist spokesmen boasting of the good times in an article about how things are going in Norwegian business, as usual combined with the honor of this good situation in the government's so-called active industrial policy. Well, if you're in the game, you also have to taste fried. Today, thousands of companies are struggling with financing problems and strongly falling demand. This leads to bankruptcies, relocations, lay-offs and redundancies, and it could have been nice to hear whether this too is due to the so-called active industrial policy of the Government. According to NTB, the credit analysis company Dun & Bradstreet expects to double the number of bankruptcies among Norwegian companies next year. Unbelievable 1 000 closures are expected in January and February. We have seen estimates in the newspapers of unemployment of up to 100,000 unemployed next year. My impression is that the crisis is striking very wide. Most industries and businesses have a solid decline, and many families face tough times. The financial crisis comes from outside. It's an international banking and cyclical change. The questions are: How is Norway equipped to meet these challenges? What does the Government do now when the crisis is a fact? As far as the last point is concerned, my impression is that the government is holding hands in prison. Governments outside the world are proposing significant tax cuts and large investments in roads, construction and maintenance. Sweden presented its crisis package a week ago. At home in Norway, however, the Financial Committee had to deal with the State budget without changes for seven long weeks without the red-green parties being willing to lift a finger. Not a comma was moved into the budget despite a flood of information about a whole new reality in the Norwegian economy. The government almost ridiculed the Right's demand for dialogue between position and opposition in a very difficult and important matter. The Minister of Finance stated that the government’s own budget had expired on the day before the Storting was to deal with the financial situation, and announced new measures. However, we still have to wait eight new weeks for the new measures, which means that many of the measures will not have an impact on the Norwegian economy until the autumn of 2009. On the other hand, the forecasts presented by the SSB as early as 13 October, a week after the presentation of the budget, showed a dramatic decline in activity and a dramatic increase in unemployment, and a whole new reality in the Norwegian economy. So anyway, seven weeks went by before the government understood that something had to be done, and it takes eight weeks for us to get the suggestions from the government. In my opinion, the government deserves to act as a facsimile in crisis management. The effect of this inactivity is likely to cause many more people to lose their jobs than would have been the result if they went to work faster to deal with the crisis. The government, on the other hand, has taken action in some other areas. There's a bank package. Measures have been put in place for export finance. There has been an increased guarantee framework for GIEK and an increased loan framework for Innovation Norway. This has made sense. But also these processes are characterized by the fact that the government has neither good enough preparedness nor has followed the situation well enough. You're in the back of the case by case. Take, for example: Export finance that had to warn about major problems and a loan stop in a very serious look-up in Today's Business on 29 October. The right followed up with questions, and the Minister of Industry replied one week later that the bank package was the solution. This was, of course, completely wrong. The bank package had no effect on export finance. The right has asked for transparency in the dialogue between Export Finance and the Government to check if it really was such that the Government had to get this information through the media. From this dialogue it is clear that since August, export finance has warned against a stoppage of lending. Nevertheless, the government has been sitting with its hands in the trap and passively allowed the export industry to come into a very critical situation. So when the crisis package for export finance finally came on November 27th, everyone of course breathed out. I'm also going to be fair and give the Council of State credit for making the solution that was finally chosen seem reasonable. It is not surprising that the export finance process must have been complicated, and that export finance initially asked for increased state ownership – a request Right was willing to assess, but we were very satisfied that the Council of State did not. But the image of passivity is nevertheless impossible to get around, seen in the light of the fact that the Government was notified of these problems already in August. In November, the government’s response to the Storting clearly reflected a lack of insight into the challenges facing the export industry. The impact that the financial crisis will have on businesses and employees in the private sector is to a large extent a function of the competitiveness of Norwegian business. In each budget alone, the right has called for a longer-term approach, to use the budget to strengthen competitiveness, to get the good times to last and to invest in the welfare of the future. Unfortunately, when it comes to red-green industrial policy, all our predictions have kept pace – competitiveness has been weakened every year after Stoltenberg took over. You haven't used the good times, the right fat years, to renovate Norwegian value creation. The government has increased the taxes by nearly DKK 11 billion compared to the last draft budget of the Bondevik II government – and that in a time of huge tax revenue anyway. Nor has the government followed up the policy of action for the use of oil revenues for growth-promoting purposes such as research and knowledge, road construction, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. If the Right Conservative and Forward-Looking proposals had been supported, employees would have been significantly better equipped to meet the challenges we face in the years to come. It is quite amazing that the government chooses to increase taxes on business as it is now. The right has been against tax incentives for business all the time. But that the government is taking out equity from the companies in today's situation is totally incomprehensible. It is characterised either by a lack of understanding of basic links between jobs and equity in enterprises or by a lack of concern about the fact that businesses are going out of business and that people are experiencing unsafe job situations. Increased taxes on wealth and inheritance for family businesses are in the present situation a kind of industrial poison pill, a targeted policy to increase unemployment. The right, therefore, promotes proposals for a large business package of nearly DKK 8 billion in our alternative budget. We prioritise quite large amounts in tax reductions that can strengthen job security, a powerhouse for research and innovation, 75 million. SEK more for research and development contracts, 75 million. kr more to the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, 500 million. kr more to SkattenFUNN, NOK 1 billion more for road construction, two new seed funds and more money for the marketing of travel life. We even find room for SV's economic policy election campaign pledge number one – and that may be the only thing – namely increased depreciation rates for machines. Thus, the Right provides an answer to the situation that everyone sees Norwegian enterprises and workers are up in. Of course, our proposal is not enough, but it is better than nothing, and our proposals come quickly and need no Christmas holidays to get started. Maritime industry may be Norway’s largest knowledge-based industry. The cluster has nearly 100,000 employees and 100 billion kroner in turnover. The government’s greeting to this coastal industry was DKK 21 billion in taxes and DKK 21 billion in lost equity on the transition to a new shipping tax scheme. This became an SV-driven turnaround, which will cost expensive in terms of lost jobs and lost activity now when the freight rates fail and the funding disappears. It says most of all about the Government's position on the maritime cluster that the Minister of Finance almost ridiculed the Minister of Industry's promise that the environmental fund of DKK 7 billion would be equity. The Ministry of Finance increased the tax bill from NOK 14 billion to NOK 21 billion only as a result of an unnecessary tight regulation. The right has therefore made a proposal for a representative to ensure that the environmental fund of DKK 7 billion in total equity can be regarded as equity rather than tax debt. This is a proposal that I hope the Government will take on board because it will obviously strengthen environmental investment, it will strengthen coastal jobs, and it will strengthen the maritime cluster in a very difficult situation. Migration in agriculture is taking place despite ever-increasing transfers. More and more farmers believe the government's rhetoric about small-scale use and popularism, and rather invest in forward-looking cooperatives. Nevertheless, this is an industry that virtually screams for new solutions, and how much could have been better done to achieve the objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy in a better way both for farmers and for consumers. The right also promotes this year many proposals that strengthen ownership, strengthen nutrition, and strengthen the income potential of farmers. We want to remove the ban on sharing in the soil law, abolish the price control for farm use and remove the housing obligation. This is old-fashioned socialistic heritage. These property regulations are pads on an industry that needs good conditions for conversion. When 40 p.m. of the land area in Norway is land renting, and 35,000 farmhouses stand and fall away around the country, it goes without saying that this is not a sustainable system. The main proposal, however, is to draw up a new biggest report on a forward-looking agriculture. I think it's almost absurd that the government refuses to take a debate on what our agriculture will look like in the future. There have been 2,000 joint ventures built in recent years, and 25 pst. milk production takes place in such larger and more advanced uses. But even though farmers understand this, the government refuses to draw the map of Norwegian agriculture for the future, with the opportunities and challenges that farmers will have in the future. In the Ministry of Fisheries, I would just like to point out that the Right disagrees with regard to the structure of growth in the aquaculture industry. Growth should be distributed between increased biomass and new concessions. As far as competition policy is concerned, this budget is also an empty line with a relatively weak growth in the budget of the Competition Authority. I would like to raise the right-hand proposal in the vote, and recommend the Stortinget to join a new course in business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2460	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2465	I'm recording that Right says they're occupied with maritime industries. Then they criticize the Government for demanding that the industry pay the tax due in connection with the introduction of the new and favourable réaar tax scheme. In fact, the government did what the industry has asked for for many years, simply to introduce equal conditions of competition to those of the rest of Europe, both in terms of rent taxes and net wages. In addition, we increase the fisherman’s deduction to NOK 150000 to offset any negative measures for the fishing industry. But right cut the payroll by 500 million. kr. This is a scheme to recruit Norwegian seafarers to our ship. As the representative Hansen also said in his article, workplaces today are very important, perhaps extra important. That is why I am wondering how the representative can defend a reduction of 500 million. kr to this important scheme, and at the same time claim that they are concerned with stimulating the recruitment of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2472	It is true, as the representative Eldegard says, that an overall maritime industry wanted a new shipping tax system. This means that Stortinget unanimously joins a new shipping tax system. But it becomes completely absurd when the representative Eldegard claims that the industry has received what they wanted, when at the same time they withdraw 21 billion kroner in taxes from previously granted tax exemptions. It's not possible to argue that fulfilling one's wishes is a defense against subtracting 21 billion dollars in taxes. I heard last year that it was a rhetoric that these rich shipowners were to be taken, and that many red-green representatives thought it was fine. The reality is that NOK 21 billion is lost in equity. It will have a significant impact on many coastal businesses and will weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian maritime clusters on a permanent basis. That the government has ruined the maritime policy in this period, there is no doubt about it. In the case of the net pay scheme, the Government has also restricted that scheme. The reason for this is that it is highly anticompetitive and causes maritime industries to take workers from, for example: the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2481	Norway is probably one of the most successful countries in the world to have an active district policy. The two most important steps are that we have managed agricultural policy and that we have had a differentiated employer's fee. That is why I am surprised at the Right, which is writing with the Progress Party on several points of agricultural policy, among other things. that agriculture will be deregulated, as proposed in proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox That's what you say. ‘The Government asks the Government to implement an embellishment of the legislation in the milk production sector. Key elements of such a decoration must be an increase in the maximum quota for individual and joint farms, a freer movement of milk quotas and the abolition of the distance limits and the number of participants for participation in joint farms.’;» This would have led us to have a completely different type of agriculture from what we have had, and one would have moved towards a full deregulation of agriculture. Does not the representative Torbjørn Hansen fear that this will lead to the disappearance of rural agriculture and that Norwegian district policy will be significantly weakened if such a model is adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2491	Black is no. The answer is the exact opposite. There is no doubt that rural agriculture will be significantly strengthened by more robust units in Norwegian agriculture. I can assure the representative Ryan that there will still be significant amounts of regulation in Norwegian agriculture, even if we remove these incomprehensible restrictions on co-farming. I can inform SV about that 25 pst. the current milk production takes place in such co-farms. 2000 such cooperatives have been built in the last year. There is no doubt that many farmers understand that this is the future of Norwegian agriculture, although the government does what it can to build up and put boilers in the way of co-farming. I would also like to draw the attention of the representative Ryan to the fact that the right supports a differentiated employer's fee. Right, billions of dollars are spent more on road construction. The right spends more money on the marketing of travel life. So our scheme will provide significantly more activity in the districts than the scheme proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2498	I want to start by saying that I broadly support the description of reality that Torbjørn Hansen gave of the challenges we face. But for the Right, the answer is always tax-free. I think that tax will be part of the answer this time, but it will be in a relationship with state instruments, with public activity and with other proposals and devices that can bring the public sector and Norwegian business to the future. So to my question. It's on agriculture again. Torbjørn Hansen loves to promote co-operation and economies of scale as the new robust agriculture. At the same time, it is the agricultural sector which clearly has the highest cost of capital and which is now clearly most vulnerable to the changes that are taking place, including: related to the market situation. Does Torbjørn Hansen agree that there are just these uses, which he wants, which will notice most of the changes that Torbjørn Hansen and Right takes on, among others. on cuts in transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2505	I am very pleased that the representative, Mr. Borten Moe, points out that tax relief will be part of the solution in today's situation. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible that the Government is increasing the taxes on the enterprises in this budget. This suggests a significant degree of paralysis of action in the red-green batches, where it is not possible to correct obvious budget misalignment and cause a clear deterioration in competitiveness for businesses, at a time when equity is lacking, and the financing challenges are a very serious problem in relation to jobs. But it's going to be exciting to see how tax relief becomes part of the Government's crisis package. In the case of joint farms, there is no doubt that there is a future in Norwegian agriculture. It is important for the co-operation to facilitate the framework conditions for them. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that the government discriminates against cooperatives and continues to maintain regulations that could have been removed, thus strengthening the possibilities for joint ventures. We believe that the system of subsidies needs to be flattened out, so that co-operation can also provide a better place for agriculture and can be part of the agriculture of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2515	It's troubled times in Norwegian business. I was looking at the share price of Norwegian Forest today. It was $13.95 a few hours ago. Not many years have passed since the share price of Norwegian Forest was up to NOK 150. The fact that a lot is happening in Norwegian business is quite obvious, and it is important that we as business politicians are involved in it. But it's a course that's still on its way up. It is the price of political governance, which has gained a significant price rise in the last half of the year. More and more people are talking about getting more political governance in society. We in SV are happy about that. We've always thought that one of the forces in society is to be able to have a dualistic thinking, which takes care of a political dimension, while at the same time allowing the market to work in some areas where the market can cope. But too many have left to market forces to manage areas that politicians should rule. Let me take some areas within what we're doing as business politicians. We have had a strong regulation of fisheries. In order to preserve an eternal resource, it has been absolutely necessary that we have had a system through years that has made us manage that resource in a sustainable way. I mentioned in my reply with the representative Torbjørn Hansen the importance of agriculture as a district policy instrument, the importance of political management of agriculture, so that we have used the entire food soil. From Nordkapp to Lindesne we grow food today. There's relatively little soil lying fallow. This is because we have had political control. We've had the agricultural agreement as the most important instrument, and we've made sure that we've produced food. It has also contributed to significant settlement in District Norway. A third area is the development fund of the old districts, later SND, and now Innovation Norway – also an instrument that is actively used to create jobs and that there are more favourable conditions for establishing jobs where there is less access to capital and where it is difficult to get them up. ‘District policy’ is, in my view, a proponent word. Some people think of it as a negative word, a shell word – oi, this district policy, it is said. But that's a honorary word, because Norway is a district country, and perhaps the most important policy we pursue is district policy. Most of Norway is district. We're facing a so-called crisis, we're talking about it. Many of us are unsure how big that crisis is, but at least it is certain that we are in a wave valley of some kind. The Chinese have two meanings of the word ‘crisis’. One is danger, and the other is opportunity. I think I'll focus on the last meaning, possibilities. I think that now that we're going into a slightly lower activity in the business world, we're going to use the possibilities that lie in it. One of the options is to operate with the conversion. Conversion is something you have to do all the time, but there's even more reason to do it when you're in a wave valley and have time to think about, time to think about new strategies for the future. We've always been involved in the conversion. When the refrigerator came in time, a number of hermetic factories were laid down along the coast. That's right. There has been a major shift in the factories where new types of products were introduced. I think that the situation we have now, can lead to all the capable people who get free capacity and time, starting to change and think, what are we going to produce in the future? What are we going to deliver to goods and services in the future? In a situation where we are all concerned with the climate and the environment — at least almost everyone — it is clear that it is important to focus on how to get a more climate-friendly society and how we as businesses can contribute to it, for example. by optimising bioenergy, by imagining new ways of transport, etc. I think that's an exciting perspective when you're in a wave valley like that. It's also important to spend the time learning. The most important resource we have in Norway is not the oil fund, but it is the people who live here. That's why, when you get a little less activity, maybe it's time for someone to get on the school bench — both in colleges, universities and high school. Perhaps the Nav system can also help the unemployed to become active. So the crisis, which we might meet soon, can also be used for something positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2553	It is interesting to hear that an SV has started to follow up on Oslo Exchange and the development of the share prices. How the market reacts to it, I guess we'll know tomorrow. The representative Ryan was concerned about this with district policy. For me, at least it's a positively charged word, but the tools you put in there might be a little bit different. The most interesting thing in the debate is that both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have raised the issue of tax cuts and tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I would like to know what SV means in this way – whether you support what the Central Party and the Workers' Party have said, or whether you can also take this question on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2563	I'll go with you on the stock prices. I think that is important, not least in relation to an enterprise such as Norwegian Forest, which is an important enterprise in Norway and also an important enterprise in Nord-Trøndelag, where they have a large factory. Not least, there is a very, very important company in getting wood delivered from the forest. That is why I am interested that those companies should be doing well, and that is why we also need to keep a close eye on how the share price is going. So to the question of tax havens. I have traveled around and visited many companies, but it is rare that I hear that there is too much tax pressure in Norway. Most business leaders I meet want more predictability, more transport and more research and education. I am not sure that tax relief is the right thing to go in for now, but I will not exclude anything. We are now going to create a package that the Minister of Finance has told us to come back to in January/February. We'll see what it contains. Personally, I have no faith that tax relief is the preferred instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2572	SV promised in the election campaign higher depreciation rates for the companies. Unfortunately, everything indicates that this is enough a promise that has been made. In our alternative budget, we propose to increase depreciation rates on machines from 20 to 25 p.m., in line with the wishes of the Norwegian business community and the 2006 budget of the Bondevik II government. For information, Sweden has 30 pst. depreciation rates. On the right, companies will be encouraged to invest in Norwegian jobs by increasing depreciation rates and lowering the wealth tax. At the same time, we will make it more profitable to create jobs, by strengthening the TaxFUNN and removing the inheritance tax. My question to Inge Ryan is: Will the representative Ryan ensure that the proposal from the Right to increase the depreciation rates can be adopted in the crisis package to come from the Government over the New Year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2579	It's quite right, as they say, that in the last period we had the opportunity to increase the depreciation rate. We have now made a Soria Moria statement, where it was not part of it. But we got a lot of other good business policies in the Soria Moria Declaration, and we're very happy with the total business policy that the Government is pursuing. Tax FUNN goes on, we've got a good deal through Innovation Norway and Seed Fund, and there's also a new fund, which is established in Trondheim, which is up and down. I can't promise that change in the depreciation rates will be part of that package. The reason is that that package is not ready. I worked intensively in the government to get up with something in the month change January/February. I can't promise anything about what comes in that package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2584	It is now well known that the Christian People's Party has presented a package of measures to tackle unemployment of nearly 5 billion kroner. There were several elements in that package of measures, and so far he has got a bit of an unblemished destiny. But he has so many good elements that I want to rip up a little bit in these, among other things. increase depreciation rates, especially on machinery and equipment and on environmentally friendly investments, not least in the construction sector. This will stimulate activity. Stimulating activity is an important piece. Another thing in the time we're in, too, is to avoid drying skills. Ryan said that the most important resource is the people. I'm in complete agreement. For this reason, the action package also proposes to reduce the employer’s pay for apprentices by 25 pst. Is this action that SV thinks is interesting and that one might think to go in for when it alerts the government action package?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2591	A few days ago, the Prime Minister gathered all the parliamentary leaders to a meeting in his office, where the package of measures coming was discussed. What was said by the Prime Minister was that all the proposals made by the opposition were acceptable for discussion. The Christian People's Party has made a number of proposals, some good ones too, which should definitely be assessed in the context of the package of measures. Because it's not like we're the only ones in government who have the wise answers. It may well be that there are some good suggestions from the opposition as well. That, I think, is what it does, and those proposals are usually considered very seriously and taken in. For our objective of the package of measures, it will be as good as possible, and the crown will be used as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2599	The 2009 draft budget has been presented in the midst of a serious and global financial crisis. In a short time, the whole basis for the budget has been completely changed. Forecasts of economic development in Norway from both the Central Statistical Bureau, Norway Bank and others have been getting worse since the government budget was presented. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly challenged the Government to meet this actively by presenting its own additional proposal to the government budget. But the answer was long that the budget was ‘well adapted to the economic situation’. What happened was that the government was getting more and more involved in this perception, and probably there is some reason why the government announced on 26 November that a package of measures would be included in the change of the month of January/February. It is a paradox that we have a multi-annual government that is reluctant to present a necessary package of measures to prevent unemployment. Or let me site Arne Strand in the newspaper. Yesterday, in the NRK's programme, News Eighteen, he said: 'The budget has been covered for seven weeks by the budget which had expired on the date of its adoption.' The Christian People's Party certainly believes that the package of measures from the Government will be too late. However, it does not prevent us from being constructive, and we will do what we can to help reduce business and jobs. The Christian People's Party's package of measures, which we presented a few weeks ago, would have combined to stimulate the economy with nearly 5 billion dollars in addition to the government's proposal. This action package contains many items that should be included in the Government and the Government's party. Right and Left have now turned around and cooperated with the Christian People's Party to increase the use of oil money, and on the actions of the Christian People's Party in the financial situation. I really hope that the Government and Government will do as well. In rare cases, the possibility of filling the expression 'national effort' with real content is better. Public investment in construction and commerce is the main element of this package, but improving business depreciation is also an important element. Increased depreciation rates, especially on machines and equipment and on environmentally friendly investments, etc., can counteract an investment drought in the business world, and this would clearly have a positive effect even when it comes to the objectives of the climate agreement. Christian People's Party proposes, among other things: to increase the frames to the SkattenFUNN by 25 pst. and to increase the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion to facilitate research and innovation in business. The economy will also be a major contributor to the proposed abolition of inheritance taxes in case of a generation change in family holdings and of equality between self-employed and employed persons in the case of maternity benefits/cash payments. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is crucial for the creation of value added and employment along the coast. I am pleased that the Government is now increasing the fishing tax to NOK 150 000, as the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative state budget last year. The Christian People's Party also proposes a 6 million necessary strengthening of the MAREANO programme. to improve the basis for the revision of the Barents Sea and beyond Lofoten and the Western Sea Management Plan in 2010. It is a great honour for the Grand Duchy that the Committee has managed to gather on a strong criticism of the EU’s fisheries policy. It says something about the seriousness of the situation in the EU’s fisheries when a Joint Nutrition Committee can be so clever in criticising such a central point in the EU’s policy and in the Norwegian EU debate. The Christian People's Party thinks it's high time you called a spade for a spade. The EU's fisheries policy is an environmental disaster at sea. The EU's own audit body has established that the EU is nigh driving uncontrolled overfishing, resulting in dramatic stock failure. The EU auditor concludes that if nothing is done, the situation will be disastrous. The EU is strongly involved in the global fisheries crisis, not only by overfishing in its own waters, but also by concluding fisheries agreements with poor countries and continuing overfishing there. In other words, the EU's fisheries policy is fatal to the nutritional basis of a number of poor countries. Yesterday, it was announced that Norway and the EU have some concerns about an agreement on discards of fish. That's good. The EU is committed here to halt discards of fish over the minimum target, but with a low market value. But the problem is, as the Marine Research Institute also pointed out in the news report yesterday, that most of the EU's draft fishing boats apply to small fish below the minimum target. Furthermore, the enforcement and sanctions of EU regulations in the fisheries policy are very inadequate. Thus, most of the draft can continue, and the environmental scandal involved is not solved at all. Greenpeace is disappointed in Norway and the EU. They think that Norway could stand harder on getting a total ban on drafts – as we in Norway have had for a long time – and that Norway should have rejected the agreement. The Christian People's Party does not go as far as Greenpeace, but we have great sympathy for some of their views on this matter. This is a huge challenge, and here we just have to stand on and display muscles. Then turn to agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party wants active agriculture throughout the country. Many measures have to work together here. Good welfare arrangements, proper income development and stability of the framework conditions are important tools for giving hope for the future and optimism. This, in turn, will contribute to the necessary recruitment and growth in this important industry. Agriculture has long faced challenges related to new investment. Now there is a need to stimulate the construction sector. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes an agricultural package in connection with the budget to increase investment in agriculture. First of all, we want to increase the depreciation rate for operating buildings. According to the Farmer’s information, the tax depreciation period today is 100 years longer than the operational economic lifetime, and 100 years longer in Norway than for the corresponding construction in Sweden and Denmark. Secondly, we would like agriculture to be given the opportunity to apply for funds for initial investment from the local food funds. We have also recorded that the Farmer has recently asked that in the announced package of measures from the Government, the permissions of county development funds should be doubled. The Christian People's Party considers this to be a good, a fast-acting and a good action. My whole point is that these measures can be decisive for farmers who are now considering completely necessary new investments in the gardening industry. Therefore, I really hope that the Government and Government Party will grasp this. Finally, I will put forward the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made in the setting, alone or in conjunction with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2643	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2648	In a note, the representative Sørfönn expresses himself as follows: ‘Value creation is the basis for well-being. Hence, industrial policy is decisive for the Christian People's Party. We believe that business must be built from below, and that policy-makers’ main role is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation.’ That's great. That's exactly how we think in the Workers' Party, too, concretely because we have a historical investment in infrastructure, and that we equip the municipalities with nutrition funds, so that they can provide support for planning, product development, market analysis, etc. What makes the comment of the Christian People's Party an alternative to the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2660	It's probably both because we're not happy with the business policy that the government has, and it's because of a lack of courage. We're not supposed to stick under the confidence that the government has made positive moves in different areas, but in the demanding situation we're in now, we think the government has acted too late. Amongst other things, we think that some tax sharps that are alert to business should have been postponed, we think that now was the time to remove the inheritance tax on generational change in family businesses, and we think that the government should benefit from this situation to remove the wealth tax on working capital that applies to business. So my answer is that even though we're not just going to complain about the government's business policy, we want to give him a slightly bigger lift, and get a little more speed and fun in him, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2667	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2671	This year there is a strange budget debate. We know that, within a month, we will again be discussing budgetary matters under the heading of 'crisis packages'. I think next year will be a six-month with a continuous budget debate. There is no doubt that industrial policy will be the most important policy area. The financial crisis is causing many of today's businesses to lose their right to life. Workplaces will disappear. Our common challenge is to make it easier to replace them. This should be easy to agree on, but when the large majority of the prescription is that all unemployed should enter the public sector, and the state should and can buy up in large and medium-sized Norwegian enterprises, it becomes anything but simple. The part of the Government’s crisis plan communicated in yesterday’s VG is also more of the same: all actions are to be undertaken by the public sector or by the public sector. This may in itself be good for the part of Norwegian industry and business that lives on the domestic market, but large parts of Norwegian business are exposed to competition and export oriented. So far, there are reasonably few, if any, measures for this important part of our business. The left is concerned about the export-oriented industry. It is precisely this that will be the top priority of the Left in the discussions that are now taking place between the government and the opposition associated with the notified crisis package. The important thing is that we get strengthened out of it. The simplest thing now, and to which unfortunately the government and government parties seem to swear, is conservation measures. Then the crisis becomes much longer and much more extensive than it is necessary. The Left's alternative state budget is, in my view, very well adapted to precisely these challenges. The main single measure in our alternative state budget is to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business and small businesses. The impact of the Left's policy is almost DKK 4.5 billion in targeted measures for business. The left will focus in particular on the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business combined with a comprehensive effort on education and research. We will therefore have increased depreciation rates, we will change the depreciation rates in a more environmentally friendly way, we will have our own tax incentives for long-term investment in new businesses, we will apply for our own minimum deduction of self-employed workers, half of the employer's fees for apprentices and increased rates in the tax FUNN scheme. Everything is aimed at creating new and lasting jobs instead of so-called tax incentives for the rich. The so-called rich are the ones who create and invest in the jobs we need in the future. It's totally wrong medicine with targeted tax consolidation in the time we're in. Furthermore, the Left proposes the reintroduction of grants for unremunerated labour input into the TaxFUNN scheme, increasing industrial research by 350 million. in addition to the Government's proposals, strengthening the social rights of self-employed persons, increasing the commitment to travel activities and reducing fees from the Brønn Island Health Registers. I noticed that the head of the Business Committee, Ola Borten Moe, a few days after the financial situation was adopted, called for both fiscal measures to stimulate the equity situation in Norwegian companies and tax havens that can promote investment and the transformation of business in a more environmentally friendly direction. This is a policy that the Left fully agrees with. It's strange that the Center Party voted against just this policy both just before and just after Borten Moes played out. I'm not going to dwell on this paradox right now, except to wish the Central Party good luck in the internal negotiations on the crisis package in the Government. I hope then that the Borten Moe's opinions will actually be passed on in that way. We now need a targeted focus on the future, focusing on growth in climate and environmental workplaces. The Left aims to develop an equally good supply industry in climate and renewable energy as we do in the oil and gas sector. The part of the Norwegian metallurgy industry that now wears due to decline in e.g. The automotive industry should be transformed into a supplier to the renewable sector. Therefore, the Left proposes the creation of a state-owned investment company, Climate Change, which is intended to invest in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion of existing businesses. The company is based on the same guidelines as national seed funds under Innovation Norway. The debate on the need for modernisation, new thinking and different thinking is certainly as crucial for agricultural policy as it is for the general industrial policy. Here it is clear that there is a marked debate between more than the opposition and the government. The head of the Liaison Committee and his own State Council in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food also seem to disagree fairly further on the road. It's just to look at the case of odel at the farm Ulstad Vestre in Stjørdal, where the council is stuck in an old-fashioned thinking that everything should be like before, while the head of the nutrition committee stands for a different and much more forward-looking approach. Or, we can look at the representative Lundtigen from the same party, who has had a sort of aha experience that now there will be less free trade, while both the world leaders and the Norwegian government say the opposite to promote global action in order to counter the international financial crisis. Then we also have the fact that the Government and Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck accepted the present proposal for agriculture in the WTO negotiations this summer, while central party leader Liv Signe Navarsete later stated that the draft WTO agreement was not the answer to the challenges of the future. It is in itself exciting to follow the internal debate in the Central Party and the Government on agricultural policy, but, in particular, it is not yet actionable and forward-looking. The left wants to maintain sustainable Norwegian agriculture in the future too, but we do not do that by closing our eyes and hoping for better weather. We do this by focusing on those who believe in a future in Norwegian agriculture by allowing them to grow, to gain greater flexibility and to make use of both instruments and thinking that have traditionally not been brought into line with agriculture. Tomorrow's challenges have never been solved with yesterday's instruments, even though there are many in both the Center Party and the Bond Team who are trying to draw just such a reality. Norwegian fishing industry is facing major challenges. Both consumers, importers and businesses in the markets have significantly reduced their ability to buy and pay for Norwegian fish. Foreign buyers do not have the economy to buy Norwegian fish for stocks, as banks in important markets are tightening. This can lead to many losing their jobs in the fishing industry, and more fears of industrial bankruptcy. As I have mentioned earlier, for the Left, it is very important that we urgently put in place good and targeted solutions for the exporting industry. I hope the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will take this with me when the Government will present a revision of the State budget in the month-end of January/February. If not, the fishing industry will face dark times. The fishing industry also has state-driven challenges, namely seismic studies. The government strongly advocates oil exploration through seismic surveys in vulnerable sea areas. The left does not support the government’s survey of oil deposits outside the Lofoten and the West and Moravian Rivers, as these areas are just some of the world’s most important spawning grounds for a number of fish species. The fishing industry in Lofoten and Vesterålen has reported a reduction of 70 pst. by sieving and welding landings after the start of the seismic shooting. The government's management of this conflict has been not satisfactory, and I ask the Government to follow up its own St.meld. No 8 for 2005-2006 on the overall management of the marine environment in the Barents Sea and beyond the Lofoten Sea, where it appears that fishing interests and spawning migration are ahead of oil activity. Although the situation may look darker than in the long term for the fishing industry, the Left considers that with good framework conditions, seafood industries can ensure growth and income on the whole coast. In fisheries, aquaculture and marine biotechnology, Norway has a significant competitive advantage based on natural assumptions and a wide range of competences developed through generations. The left will develop a maritime food policy that ensures a competitive and comprehensive maritime nutrition. Furthermore, the left considers that it is a prerequisite for Norway to reduce its trade barriers through an active trade policy. The regulatory framework in all parts of the maritime food sector needs to be greatly simplified. The aim must be to ensure environmentally sound, sustainable management and local value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2728	It is remarkable that the Left in its position goes in order to wind up the net pay system for seafarers for a period when we are going to have a breakdown in the labour market and need to be close to every job we can pick up. Has the Left considered the consequences of what they are now in favour, or is it such that they want to reverse the competitive relationship between the offshore industry and the fishing industry as they support the proposal to increase the fishing deduction to DKK 150 000 per year? I ask the representative of Kongshaug to explain this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2735	It is not new in the year that the Left wants to abolish the net pay scheme. Then I can agree with the representative of Gullvåg, who says that right in a time of crisis it may not be right to go to work so hard. But then it is that one cannot change such important assumptions from one year to another. Predictability is important in Norwegian industry, including maritime industry. The left will, instead, have good tax arrangements for the shipping companies. Then we have to remember that the net pay system affects competition with other industries and similar activities, including land-based travel. Support is not limited to skilled workplaces. There are also jobs competing with other industries, including the fishing industry, as the representative of Gullvåg himself mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2744	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug said in his speech that the government had done nothing for the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian export industry. My sense of reality is on the contrary that it's done a lot. A comprehensive funding package has been put in place for the banks, which has been organised in GIEK, and has been organised in export finance and has been allocated significant billions. This, together with the emphasis on monetary policy, i.e. reducing the level of interest rates and increasing access to business liquidity, is, in our opinion, the most important single measure for Norwegian business. A package of measures can never be the complete answer, only one supplement. I would therefore like the representative of Kongshaug to tell us whether he thinks that reality is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2751	It is clear that the measures taken by the Government in the light of the problems of banking and the like’s export credit are correct. They have received their full support from the entire opposition, including from the Left. But there's no contradiction between an early age and the fact that one also improves the framework conditions in general for business. The left reduces in its alternative budget, which we are now dealing with, taxes and taxes to business by DKK 4.5 billion. It would have been a good signal to give to Norwegian business at the start of a year where we see a lot of problems ahead of us. We are increasing research and education efforts, and nutrient research by SEK 1.5 billion. It could have been put in place as early as 1 January next year. Then it'll be exciting to see what the government will do with a month later. Perhaps the government comes up with just such measures. We welcome that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2760	I noticed that the representative, Kongshaug, felt that there was no immediate danger that the Left would, with the first, propose to wind up the net pay scheme. It's in and of itself comforting. But now it is the way in which the Left also goes into its budgetary remarks to liquidate the current form of agricultural settlement and replace it with a hybrid. Is it also valid in the long term, or is it more relevant in view of the future agricultural situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2765	I think the representative of Gullvåg misunderstood me in my reply. For many years we have had the liquidation of the net pay scheme in our budget, on the basis of the foundation I had. We also have that in the current year's budget. In the case of the agricultural agreement, we do not want to liquidate it in its entirety. We believe that an agricultural agreement should be a debate on the incomes of the farmers between the state and the agricultural organisations, while many other things that are also being negotiated between the state and the farmers' organisations are simply budgetary matters. It should have been mentioned in a debate in this Chamber, and that in budgetary terms. The representative of Gullvåg knows that there are many examples of such things that are not directly pay-related.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2772	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2775	We are in the midst of a very serious and comprehensive economic downturn in the world economy. We already see that it has affected Norwegian jobs and businesses and affects individuals and families. We have to be prepared that it can be a long-term setback, and that it will affect us in many different areas. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the Nordics want safe incomes in 2009 as well, and that we in Norway are better equipped than many other countries around us to deal with this difficult situation. As you know, the government has recently taken a number of measures to address the international financial crisis. The state budget now adopted is an expansive and offensive budget. There is increased investment in road construction and rail, more money for public works projects and several other measures that help to secure jobs. We spend more oil money in 2009 than in 2008. The crisis package vis-à-vis the banking industry has improved the liquidity of the banks. It helps to lower interest rates and facilitate banks to function as normal and lend money to businesses and individuals. This has been the first priority to put in place. In addition, the provision of new equity to the Municipal Bank will secure loans to municipalities, while the increased framework for GIEK and Innovation Norway ensures business loans. All indications are that these are measures that are very targeted. We have e.g. have received more feedback from several sites in the country saying that the extension of the framework was directly essential for the construction of ships and the avoidance of permits. So we're doing what we can to defend ourselves against the effects of the financial crisis. But at the same time we have to renew ourselves. For business, it's as simple as brutal: if you stand still, your competitors will jump from you. That's why it's important, perhaps more important than ever, to bet on innovation. Through the innovation message presented last week, we are anchoring innovation policy as an important area in the EEA. We are also taking action to further develop innovation policy. We present a number of concrete measures, including: in entrepreneurship, employee-driven innovation, research, public sector innovation and environmental technologies. We will also improve the knowledge base and establish strategic advice to improve dialogue with businesses. In the budget we have followed up with increased appropriations in these areas, and in the setting we have recorded that there is a broad consensus on these priorities. I'm glad. The 2009 budget line in the Ministry of Industry and Trade is over NOK 6.6 billion, and there is an increase of 8.7 pst. from 2008. Since 2005, the framework has increased by 45 pst. There is strong growth in the budgets for research and higher education. With this budget, the red-green government is better than the Bondevik II government – almost everything. For the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, about 625 million are proposed. to actions directly targeted at enterprises to stimulate R & D efforts, including more than 330 million. kr to BIA - an increase of 19 pst. from 2008. R & D contracts amount to 264 million. kr, there's an increase of 15 million. kr. The government is following up the tourism strategy and increasing efforts to market Norway as a tourist country. It proposes 245 million. kr to the 2009 travel effort from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade budget – an increase of 145 million. kr under this government. The budget shall continue to be 100 million. kr to support under Government Maritime Strategy, Stylish Course. Involvement in design is a significant contribution to creating a more innovative business. In the budget, this area is therefore a priority with a total of 10 million. kr to a design-driven innovation programme. Nutritional simplification is a high priority. Better electronic services and information to business together in one place will make everyday life easier for businesses. In the budget, it's set at over 200 million. kr for further development of Altin. Although many measures have been presented, the Government has announced the need for further action. We now have a comprehensive dialogue with the business community and the employee organisations, and I have received clear input from the opposition parties, which we naturally take with us in the further work. So we're in a troubled time. The financial crisis that originated in the United States will also affect the coast and marine industries. However, the picture for the fisheries and aquaculture industry is complex. On the one hand, falling oil prices, the prospect of reduced interest rates, and weak crowns that make exporting more profitable, are positive factors for the fishing industry. Increased allowances and new concessions also provide openings for continued growth. On the other hand, we know that the industry is meeting a tight credit market. It has become more difficult to raise capital and more stringent collateral requirements are being imposed. These are problems facing industry as a whole and also affecting the fishing industry. In addition, there is uncertainty about how markets will develop and that means that 2009 will be a challenging year for the coast. The government is also following the situation on a continuous basis, including how the fishing industry is affected by the turmoil in financial markets. We have a high level of preparedness in the current situation, and I have a close dialogue with the industry, also in relation to the package of measures to be presented by the Government over the New Year. A number of measures have already been promoted which will help to alleviate market turmoil and stimulate the circulation of blood into credit markets, to which I have also referred in my reply to written questions from the representative of Korsberg, mentioned earlier in the debate. Innovation Norway has increased its low-risk scheme by NOK 1 billion. This is very important for small and medium-sized industrial enterprises and enterprises in fisheries, agriculture and tourism. Thus, the government contributes to making it easier for these types of enterprises to obtain loans for a difficult period of time. The framework for GIEK has been extended and, in particular, GIEK’s subsidiary, GIEK Credit Insurance, will be important in order to enable the fisheries and aquaculture industry to continue its exports to countries such as the United Kingdom. Russia and Ukraine. Then to the budget for 2009. The work on the national budget was completed at the end of September. In the budget, we stress that uncertainty is unusual and that growth can be lower than estimated as a result of the international financial crisis. It is then important that we go into 2009 with a very good budget for the fisheries and aquaculture industry. The government once again shows that we are strongly committed to combating illegal, unregistered and unregulated fishing. The allocation for this purpose, when you take with you the 10 million. kr proposed in the 2009 budget has increased by 42.5 million. since this government took over responsibility in 2005. The increased funds in 2009 shall include, inter alia: increase the number of inspectors at the Regional Offices of the Directorate for Fisheries. The effort so far has been very good, and for the years 2005–2007 the estimated illegal fishing of cod in the Barents Sea has been reduced by 60 pst. That's something that benefits all the law-abiding fishermen along the coast. Then it's interesting when the Progress Party, which usually calls for more police to maintain law and order, suggests cutting, among other things. in the budget of the Directorate for Fisheries, by 20 million. kr in 2009. Such a cut would have hit the fight against illegal fishing very hard. The marine industry is an important industry for Norway and this allocation round will contribute to increased coastal value creation. By granting 65 new authorisations, the Government honours the promises contained in the Strategy for a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry and contributes to the stability and predictability of the aquaculture industry. I have noticed that the members of the Business Committee from the Right and the Advance Party are ‘Critical to add to growth unilaterally through concessions. This is not allowed to take part in any growth of existing nutritionists’. This must be due to a misunderstanding. Growing unilaterally through new permits will mainly benefit existing businesses, even if it also opens up to new players. This also follows from the priority criteria targeted at smaller actors and activities contributing to increased value creation. In assessing the number of permits to be granted, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has focused on environmental sustainability, market developments since 2005, further market prospects and developments in large competing countries. 65 new permits correspond to an increase in production capacity of about 7 pst. Such an increase lies within an environmentally acceptable framework. The regional distribution of permits has been based on an environmental and regional and industrial policy assessment. Half of the permits are granted in North Norway and half in South Norway. Due to the current environmental and disease situation in the West, relatively few authorisations are granted in this area. The authorisations granted shall include, inter alia: stimulate an improved locality structure to ensure good fish health. Sustainability challenges are now much more visible than they were 10 or 20 years ago, and future growth depends on the sustainability of the industry. In Hardangerfjorden, environmental conditions have forced specific measures from a north-eastern perspective — no, from an area perspective — the mouth runs over with the heart filled. The Ministry will focus on sustainability in the coming year. The 2009 budget also contains an important measure to improve the framework conditions for employees in the fishing industry. In the context of the revised national budget for 2008, the deduction from fishing was raised from 80 000 kroner to 115 000 kroner, and in the 2009 budget this is further raised to 150 000 kroner. All in all, this should provide a good starting point for meeting the year 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2835	I have raised the financial crisis on various occasions and the way it affects the fishing industry. The first time, on which the Council of State was involved, was at the beginning of November. Then I got the answer that it was not necessary to take any grip. Then I raised the same question fourteen days ago, during the financial debate. Then the staff pointed out the measures and packages with which the government has come, and said that it was sufficient. Then I read in the Fisheries Bulletin yesterday that the Council of State says that at the end of January the Government will present a package of measures to counteract the adverse effects on the fishing industry. The question then is: what adverse effects has the financial crisis caused to the fishing industry, and what can the financial crisis cause to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2840	Firstly, I do not fully agree with the representative Korsberg's description of what I have written to him in the form of a letter. There I have said that I and the rest of the government follow the situation very closely. I have also referred to the measures already put in place by the Government, and I have shown that it also benefits the fisheries and aquaculture industry. I have had several meetings and contacts with the industries concerned, and they point out that there is one area that is particularly important for that industry, and there is access to capital. It ensures both the banking package, the strengthening of the Low Risk Loan Facility for Innovation Norway, where the marine sector is the largest user, and the measures mentioned in relation to GIEK. As of today, there is no crisis in the fisheries or aquaculture industry. But it is quite obvious that 2009 can be a tough and demanding year. In the meeting I had with the fishing industry last week, they once again pointed to the capital and liquidity situation, and they then put on the table several concrete proposals that we now have to assess in the department, which will be assessed against the package we are going to present in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2847	All indications suggest that Iceland in these days is seriously considering sending a new application to the EU. It is also claimed that Iceland may become a member of the EU from 2011 if the application is sent over the New Year. This means that while Norway is still in the process of negotiating fisheries policy in the EU, Iceland is sitting at the table where policy is decided. We know very well that the EU is very faithful to the EU countries and listens to them. So we who are sitting in the hall are not the ones that are being listened to first. Does the Minister for Fisheries share the view of the Right that Norway will have a better impact on its fisheries policy if Norway joins the EU if Iceland does so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2852	Iceland has not yet taken a decision on whether to join the EU. So before we start discussing whether Norway is going to join the EU because Iceland does, we first need to see what Iceland is doing. If Iceland is to take that step, we must at least have a careful assessment of the impact it has on the interests of the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry. Then I do not fully agree with the description that the EU is only going to go, regardless of Norway, if we do not sign up. I feel that we have made significant progress in our fisheries cooperation with the EU in recent years, both in terms of illegal fishing, and not least in terms of the breakthrough we received yesterday in relation to draft issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2859	The Christian People's Party welcomes the agreement with the EU on the ban on discards for fish. But, as I said in my speech, most of the draft EU fishing boats apply to small fish under the minimum target, and it is not covered by the agreement. I might want to clarify a little bit more about how the Council of State views this. The question that arises is whether all the stones were turned around to solve this challenge. Is the agreement reached the first step on the road to solving the real draft challenge, or is the reality the opposite, that we have somehow tied ourselves to the mast and lost the opportunity to overcome the real environmental scandal that the EU's draft fish is?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2866	The agreement we got in place was a breakthrough. I feel that the EU has now completely changed its position on this issue. A year ago, they were not willing to discuss measures at all. We have now received a ban on high-grading, which I am absolutely sure will produce results as early as next year, when the offer will be in place. In addition, we have also agreed on more technical regulations, closures of the field to protect spawning fish, juveniles, etc. In addition, the EU has also agreed to consider a general draft ban in the context of the review of its Common Fisheries Policy and has to be assessed by 2012. So this is very important. Then I hear the objections that have come, that this is difficult to enforce. Well, you can't actually use that as an excuse to introduce a measure that was high time you got in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2875	I must be allowed to comment when I hear the Council of State still talking about that more money is spent in the current budget for different purposes than it was done under the Bondevik II government. I think it's a hopeless comparison, with a budget of almost $200 billion more than the last budget of the Bondevik II government. That's what we have to end with. Instead, tell us what effect one has of the money that is allocated for different purposes. Governments were involved in innovation and the innovation message. It's recently submitted. The left believes it's high time it came. Perhaps it is already too late, in the light of the behaviour of government parties in the autumn. My question to the Council of State is then whether she can explain why the proportion of entrepreneurs today is the lowest since 2000, and why the proportion that will start its own business is greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2882	I can't answer that right here, over the table. But one explanation might be that we have now set aside several good years of high economic activity and an extremely high demand for labour. So I agree that the most interesting thing might not be how much money you spend, but what the effect is, and what you spend the money on. There I would say most strongly that we have used the good times to prepare ourselves for times that may be less good. I would like to present here the formidable effort we have had in research, which I cannot understand except that the Left must be very pleased that we have raised the level of the Bondevik II government. We have been committed to transport and roads, and we have strengthened a number of the tools available to us in the Ministry of Food and Trade, both in the field of industrial research and in innovation instruments. Not least, we've had a formidable effect out of the money we've spent on overfishing, where we've invested tens of millions of dollars and got billions back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2889	The Government’s strategy for growth in the aquaculture industry has established that it is an objective of new actors and of strangling the smallest actors. This is consistent with those actors that have the lowest – like the new actors – or no cash flow. Governments confirmed in their response to Korsberg that economic liquidity is a problem, and it is quite obvious that the small are the least liquid. However, the government proposes to charge $8 million. kr per. concession. Then my question to the State Council Pedersen is about her, just to succeed in her own strategy to also involve new players in the industry, as an action in the financial crisis package will go in to reduce the purchase price, or open up a pay-off scheme that small players in North Norway have asked the Government to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2894	In the case of aquaculture, whether an established operator or, where appropriate, a new establishment, a large amount of funds is required, not primarily to acquire a concession, but to operate it. It's also so that the concessions that are distributed can be resold. Then I think it's only fair and fair that the community gets a share of that value. We have now also done so through the 2009 concession round that a share of the purchase price should go to county municipalities, which can then use it either to develop the industry along the coast, or for example. to invest in their secondary schools. So I'm absolutely sure this is something that both industry and society will get very good out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2902	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2905	We are in the middle of a difficult time for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. The serious global financial crisis is also happening here in the north. The government has taken, and takes, responsibility by establishing several good measures to ensure Norwegian jobs. First, the Government presented a government budget in which the responsible economic policy was pursued, which is very important for everyone — and particularly important for Norwegian business. At the same time, there is a budget that contributes to increased activity in several sectors, for example. within the construction sector. In addition, the government, as known at the end of the month of January/February, will present additional good measures that will remedy the serious situation of many enterprises. It has to be a common good for all of us. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for business. A stable exchange rate and an interest rate trend in line with our competing countries is a good thing for Norwegian business. Change in property tax has become the greatest rhetorical point of the opposition party, including in today's debate. To that end, a fairer valuation of commercial property is being introduced, and the bottom deduction is being increased to NOK 470,000. It's a triple since 2005. The government, unlike several of its speakers, is busy with justice. When it comes to the change in the inheritance tax, the government has close to the tax holes in the inheritance tax that especially the richest have benefited from. Collecting the effects of the conversion of the inheritance tax means that between 90 and 95 pst. by all taxable persons, the inheritance tax is lower than the current rules. Between these, there are also many small businesses that are able to easily compare with today's rules. Then it becomes both striking and strange to the right of the representative Øyvind Korsberg and the representative Torbjørn Hansen who claims that the government increases taxes on business. Yes, for the richest – that's right – it may be higher tax, but we must not forget all those who get lower taxes and lower taxes. For me, this is going to be a logical failure. I'll spend some time talking about our future, and that's our creative youth. It is crucial to build an interest in entrepreneurship in our youth. The most important measure to create a culture of entrepreneurship is to invest in entrepreneurship in education and training. Skular and expedient institutions must take responsibility for the provision of entrepreneurship training to pupils and students. The aim must be to encourage young people to set up their own businesses, while at the same time helping to improve their understanding of business innovation. This is about raising our young people to become workers, so that they are less likely to stand up and wait for a job that others have created for them. The fact that the government also invests in young people and entrepreneurship in this year's budget is important to bring forward more entrepreneurs and new businesses. It is the small and medium-sized enterprises that account for most of the value creation around the country. When we now engage in a counter-cyclical cycle, it is particularly important that we focus on innovation, innovation and industrial development. It is therefore both important and right that industrial policy is one of the areas of activity in the year’s budget. Agriculture and forestry represent a relatively high proportion of employment in the country. What kind of agricultural policy is centrally pursued is very important for the different regions around the country. The great economic cut in transfers to agriculture on the right would have been a disaster if it had become a reality. Although there are differing views on current agricultural policies and on the size of transfers to this industry, it is crucial for future employment and food production that the government's policy strengthens the regional profile, and that among others. has a focus on the family use framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2926	When the Government presented the State budget for 2009, the Council of State sent out a press release entitled ‘A forward-looking budget for business’, Brustad, which unfortunately is not here today. It was a fairly bold heading, when we had already received numerous signals at that time that the business situation was precarious. The request from the opposition parties to enter into budgetary cooperation to change the budget, so that it was consistent with the reality we actually faced, was only met with a shoulder pull from the government parties. Even the business tax aggressors chose to keep government parties in their budgets. This shows an incredible rigidity, for which many workers are now suffering, but it is well the price the Workers' Party is willing to pay to maintain marriage with SV. In retrospect, however, the Government has partly woken up and come to Stortinget with amendments and additional appropriations. What the government considered to be a forward-looking budget for business is already history before we can deal with it here in the Storting, and I think most people should be happy about that. Nevertheless, it is frightening that the government does not see the seriousness of the situation we are in. Although the members of the Business Committee of the Government of the Parties cry out that the Governor of the Central Bank must cut the interest rate immediately, they are not as impatient about the crisis package of the Government. This is a total misappropriation, because it does not only hold to trust that lower interest rates will save jobs. Stronger action is needed, which was taken into account by the Progress Party in its alternative budget. We proposed to cancel most of the tax and tax scarves that the Government came with. We proposed increasing the minimum deductions. We proposed to increase the net asset tax deduction and the point of entry into the top tax. We proposed to increase the depreciation rate for investments and to reduce the document fee. We proposed billions to purchase equipment for universities, hospitals, police and defense so that they could meet the future with modern and necessary equipment. And we proposed to double the appropriations for Young Entrepreneurship, which the representative Oppebøen Hansen spoke so warmly about, but it was also voted down. All these proposals would help increase the purchasing power of ordinary people, make it cheaper for business to run stores and equip the public sector with modern equipment. At the same time, we made proposals that would contribute to significant investments in transport infrastructure and in the municipal sector. The fact that the government chose to vote against these proposals simply shows that they do not understand the seriousness of the situation we are now in. When the future-oriented budget for the Minister of Industry did not last a month, the government parties should assume their responsibilities here in this Chamber. They have not done so, as today's budgetary procedure shows. The Progress Party today presents – alone or together with other parties – a number of proposals that are important for entrepreneurs. We propose, among other things: a reinforced follow-up to public sector tendering procedures. We propose more independent competition supervision. We propose a better marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. We suggest more available capital through Argentum and GIEK. We propose greater flexibility in agriculture and aquaculture and have a number of other proposals that will strengthen the competitive situation in industry, which can save many jobs from being laid down. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that now that the government parties have voted in favour of the alternative budget of the Progress Party, and will certainly be voting against today's proposal, there is an urgent need for a rescue package. It is not possible to wait until February 2009 to provide a comprehensive package for business. It should come as quickly as possible and must be arranged in such a way that the usual search processes established by the State instrument do not delay the impact of the package. There is a danger that if you add fresh funds in e.g.: Innovation Norway, the usual search processes will mean that this money will not be triggered until the second half of 2009. In this respect, the Government must provide other, sound processes or other devices to ensure that these means are made available as quickly as possible. The Progress Party believes that the Government should now focus on limiting the damage to the crisis we are experiencing by taking offensive measures. There is a major shortage in this draft budget, which will go back to history as out of date before use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2949	The industrial policy pursued shall at all times constitute the ‘floor’ under Norwegian employment. A forward-looking industrial policy that facilitates growth is the best guarantee for achieving common well-being. For the Government, the rhetoric about skinning the rich has been more important than providing a good framework for entrepreneurs, who work daily to maintain profitable businesses and secure jobs. In the magazine Hotel, Restaurant and Travel Life No. 7 can read that it often stands from half a million dollars to one million dollars in equity behind one job. It is therefore obvious that taxing equity contributes to tearing the floor out under Norwegian jobs. Several fjord hotels, such as Union Hotels in Geiranger, have invested in good times for the future. Right now fears that the consequence of the government’s tax consolidation could be bankruptcy and unnecessary job losses in the districts. The 2008 NHO Competitiveness Survey shows that Norway has lost ground with our main trading partners since 2005. NHO’s Director-General for Enterprise Policy, Petter H. Brubakk, said: "We haven't spent the good times, the fat years, preparing for the bad." It's a serious criticism of the red-greens. In the debate on Norway's competitiveness on 13 November, the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtägen actually said the following: ‘In all respects, I agree with that statement.’ In the wake of the financial crisis, we can read daily about companies that have to lose. In Møre and Romesdal, the country's largest export force, looking away from oil and gas, wears especially the furniture industry. The Ekorese Group, with over 11,000 employees, has fallen to four days’ work week, fisheries and the shipbuilding industry are also facing major challenges – just for mentioning some. All over the country, we see that construction is now hit hard, that companies are going bankrupt, and that more and more people are choosing to leave their employees. While the Government has long been putting its hands in the grip and waiting situation, the Right early proposed a business package with ten important measures to mitigate the damage caused by the financial crisis. As part of the package, we propose to set up two new nationwide seed funds, one in Ålesund for the West, and one in the Inland. Through seed funds, the State, together with private investors, contributes to better access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. Research and development contracts under the auspices of Innovation Norway are, together with the SkattenFUNN scheme, important contributions to increasing innovation and research that gives competitive advantage. It is therefore sad that the government's cutting edge on research can now be called permanent down-priority. In order to keep the wheels running in the construction industry, the Right will extend the interest-free loan scheme to municipalities, from the Government proposal of NOK 2 billion to NOK 5 billion. At the same time, the Right believes that there must be at least an extra DKK 1 billion on transportation. Good and safe infrastructure contributes to growth, and is important for both business and people most. The right believes that the government will sell when it wants to wait until the month change of January/February to promote a package to the business community. On the right, the early signals from the business community about the risk of job losses took place. In our alternative state budget, we promoted proposals that the red-green government parties have had the pleasure of voting down. The rhetoric is that they will see the situation and wait. At the same time, we note that there are still new drops from the red-green – proposals in line with the vote of the Right. Could it mean that the Government is now adopting the Right proposal, then spreading them in small doses like the Government's own Christmas and New Year gifts? After weeks of pressure from the opposition, prior to the financial debate, the government announced a crisis package in the New Year. With that decision from the Government, the Storting now deals with a budget that is obsolete and far on the way out to date. Well, as big-time politicians, we don't have much else to do, do we? Today’s government came to the covered table in 2005, with a historical boom under way. Despite this, the main objective of the Government has been to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian companies, by increasing the tax bill by over DKK 10 billion. At the same time, the Government has broken the promise to eliminate poverty, ensure a shiny care for the elderly and give a boost to education and research. The government has acted with disrespect for the treatment of the budget by the Storting, taking into account that on several occasions the Right and the rest of the opposition have invited the Government to join forces to promote a government budget that actually takes over the changes that the financial crisis has created for the Norwegian economy. [[The President clubs.]] While the country and the world are facing major challenges, with financial crisis and increasing unemployment –
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2983	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e2986	Competition policy with the Competition Act is an important framework for Norwegian business. Competition is important to contribute to the efficient exploitation of society’s resources. This is for the consumer’s best and in line with the competition law’s purpose. The core area of competition law is prohibited from anti-competitive co-operation and prohibits abuse of a dominant position. It is central that these prohibitions are enforced in all parts of the business. If the ban is broken, competition does not work, and the offenders tend to pay their costs to society and to consumers. The government will fight against such financial crime. Against this background, the Competition Authority has as its primary priority the enforcement of the prohibition in competition law. In recent years, it has been increasingly difficult to detect violations of competition law. The Competition Authority's budget for the current year has been strengthened by 4.4 million. to strengthen efforts to combat crime against competition. This is of course continued in 2009, and we ask the Competition Authority to give priority to the work for next year. The government attaches great importance to correct and high-quality public procurement. So the government has done a lot to increase compliance with the law since we took over. Now we need a more holistic review of how public procurement can be professionalised. That is why we are also presenting a big message on public procurement in the spring. We have had extensive efforts to improve public procurement processes. In addition to the renewal and simplification of the legal text and the guide, the Government has strengthened its efforts in setting up the DIFI in relation to the provision of guidance and expertise on public procurement. KOFA is an active tool that is described in the option. I agree that it is a good tool to ensure compliance with the procurement law. In the past, on several occasions, we have increased the go-ahead to KOFA to reduce the process time, which, when we took over, was up for six months. Now she's down for three months, and it should be. This is important for the KOFA to be an effective complaint body. The imposition of a fee for illegal direct purchases increased the opportunity to appeal against illegal direct purchases. This change in the right of appeal is important in order to ensure effective enforcement of the legislation, of which we are all concerned. In addition, the Ministry has undertaken work to assess how enforcement can be further improved in the context of the implementation of a new enforcement directive. The government has decided to bring down a public selection to assess how the new rules can be implemented in the best possible way. The role of COFA will also be assessed through this work. The selection should start its work for the winter and give up the setting during the year. However, it is important that we have a holistic review in this area and do not go on any proposals such as: is in the option. In this room there is disunity in the use of competition in the form of outsourcing, privatisation and company formation in the public sector. The government of my competition is not an own tool in education, health and care. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left, however, show in the setting that they also consider competition and market-based solutions to be appropriate for resolving public welfare issues. This is not a new debate. But big things have happened in the world since the last time. The financial crisis is a ghastly example of what can happen if a surrender of too much power to the market. Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stieglitz has said that Wall Street's fall is for market fundamentalism what the fall of the Berlin Wall was for communism. In any case, it is a powerful alarm for those who have believed that the market can control itself. And it's a useful reminder of what lack of political governance can bring. Thank God it is a red-green government that governs the country in these times!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3005	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3008	The Councils of State have only a small part, but an important part of the budget of the Economic and Social Committee, namely competition policy. As the Council of State is already well aware of the impatience of the Progress Party in making the public sector comply with the tendering rules, I will address another issue with the Council of State. The Progress Party has been contacted by ICT-Norway, which has pointed to a problem in the middle of the current crisis, namely the requirement for a bank guarantee in connection with public tenders, which of course can be very difficult for the ICT industry in particular, where much of the value is in the top cap and not in goods. What I'm asking is, in the situation we're in with the challenge that the industry is facing, whether the Council of State will consider easing the requirement of bank guarantee in respect of public acquisitions as a tool to help this industry through the crisis period we're entering?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3015	I would like to thank the representative Fostervold for that question. I have received a longer letter from ICT Norway, with several proposals that we should now consider in the context of the action package. I have seen that work going on. There are proposals that go on both fibre construction and broadband construction, which we discussed in the previous debate today, and there are proposals that are now about to set in motion more public efficiency and conversion tools, of which we have a part in the budget, but of which we can do more. This will be the job of IT consultants and developers in particular, who will be good. But it's also a requirement for e.g. bank guarantee. We have to look at all of this. We've seen work going on. I have had a good dialogue with ICT-Norway and I was prepared to do part of it and I want to work with it. And then we're going to deliver a package of measures to Stortinget when that time comes, and then we'll see what we've done with the bank guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3022	The posts of the Council of State had a little bit of ideological confusion at the end, I must say, because she came into free market forces and regulation of competition. Now, the situation in Stortinget is that this government has weakened the regulation of competition in public procurement, while an overall opposition requires strict rules to ensure the functioning of the market in public procurement. The situation is that the state and the public sector buy in for DKK 300 billion each year, so it is extremely important both for welfare production and for the company's framework conditions that this works. Every year, the Riksrevision has pointed out that public procurement rules are systematically broken, even by the Ministry of the State Council. Now the state council has notified a big deal. However, there are several suggestions in the vote, including: to impose the obligation of publication for purchases of less than half a million. Does the Government really need a wholesale notification at the end of the period to take action that has an impact on procurement law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3029	If there's a place to discuss political ideology, well the Storting is just the place across all places. Therefore, I actually thought it was interesting to include some policy – proper policy – and I appreciate that Torbjørn Hansen notices it. We're probably disunited in a lot, but what we're a few about is that it's quite obvious that we have challenges on public procurement. But it's not like the government has done anything, and it's not because we haven't done anything, that we're going to put forward a big message, but it's just to get a holistic review of both what we've done and what we can do. What is pointed out in the reports we have now ordered and what we should do is no more supervision. They're not the answer. Both the municipal reports and the report we've been ordered from a consulting company tell us that it's about competence, it's about organisation, and not least it's about leadership anchoring, and that the leaders are interested in and actually prioritize procurement as an important area, whether it's in the state, in state enterprises or in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3037	Under the responsibility of the State Council, competition also belongs to the non-profit organisations operating child protection and care institutions. Despite the possibility of exemption from the supply requirement for these organisations, the red-green government actually practises such a strict supply regime that most of these institutions may be gone in five years. These are important and irreplaceable places both in care and before child protection. They're non-commercial institutions. These are the things we've had before, but my question will then be re-examined: Will the Council of State and the Government take action so that one really exploits the exceptional possibilities of EEA law, and so that we take care of these important institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3042	This has been our cottage's battle between the representative Sørfonn and me. I just have to repeat what I have said before, and it is that there is never a demand for bidding when we buy health and social services. We have the same exception as the Bondevik government introduced. It also applies to child protection institutions. They should be able to make purchases through so-called negotiations, not through an open offer. That means that we are just giving priority to the ideal non-commercial organisations, which both the representative Sørfonn and I are very concerned about having good framework conditions. We have, as I have done before, gone further than the Bondevik government in this area, because we have taken the training and rehabilitation services away from the offer procedure. We've actually done what the representative Sørfonn is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3047	I noticed that the council said there had been big things happening in the world. She was thinking about the financial crisis. I perceived it so that when big things happen suddenly, it is important to throw around and adapt to the situation based on it. There are many small businesses around Norway that would have thought it was interesting to be involved and compete for smaller assignments with values even below the national threshold. But that, of course, requires a legislation on the publication of these, so that it is possible to know when that happens. Does the Council of State think that it is a good idea to introduce a simplified publication obligation when purchasing below the national threshold when we enter such a time as we do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3054	This is one of the things we have to answer in the big message. We've had out an evaluation of the rise in the threshold, which was one of the last Morten Meyer did as a state council before I took over. The report we got on the table tells us that the rise was right, and that the level seems to be good when it comes to socio-economic efficiency. The issue of publication is actually interesting, because one could see that small and medium-sized enterprises would be interested in it. But there are very different answers one gets to whether publication will actually pay off. We also see that it's different, if there's a small or large offer, when you talk to the local business community. The most important thing is that one implements competition. And the competitive element is like a general requirement in the laws, and choosing one to go to direct purchases, we've said that one in any case should make sure that one has competition to get the most out of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3061	The Council of State pointed out that good market regulation was important in order to achieve good social development. The Competition Act is, of course, a key condition in this respect. There is a debate on the political review of competition surveillance decisions, and Norway is one of the few countries that has a system in place for politicians to review the rules applicable to the market on a political basis. It is obvious that if the companies feel that this is unforeseeable in relation to political review, they will be able to behave unluckily in the market. And we have several examples of the government’s overcoming competition and consumer concerns on a political basis in order to achieve rather bleak political objectives. The government has also significantly weakened the appeal system under the Competition Act. The opposition has made a proposal to evaluate the rules of procedure of the 2004 Competition Act. Can I have the Council of State assess the need for such an evaluation in the light of the conflicts that have occurred during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3068	It is quite right that, on some occasions, we have taken a different decision from that of the Competition Authority, for example. merger cases. This is not because the elements of competition in the assessments may not be correct, but because other considerations outweigh the scope of competition. It is that it is the politicians who have to decide. One cannot lift that area to more bureaucrats in e.g. independent complainants and allow them to pursue policies. Politics is the politicians who are going to run with it. When, for example, to assess competition policy towards agricultural policy or rural jobs that my predecessors, both Victor D. Norman and Morten Meyer, did, it is politicians who have just to make the concrete assessments in the specific cases. And this government hasn't overrun the Competition Authority more times than the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3075	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3078	The economy is confident that the government will deliver the measures needed, and make sure to mitigate the impacts that we see both here at home and in other countries. Action packages, increasing government borrowing frameworks and reducing interest rates are all good measures to assist in counter-grounds. The strange thing is that forces that usually talk about too much state interference, now more or less shout for more state control. It seems like the world has turned its head around. I still want to focus on agriculture in my article. We can all read nice headlines in the newspapers by day. We see a reverse operation in income development within this industry. The government has delivered and will deliver! The latest operational reviews presented by the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, NILF, show that the average income of the farmer last year is increasing with figures that are out of line in modern times here in the country. There are different reasons for that. We're excited about how this year's result is going to be. But there is no doubt that we have reversed a negative trend. Agriculture is an industry that has many additional tasks at the same time as the main focus is on producing clean and safe food. In this area, too, we can do some research on the targets that we've written in the Soria Moria statement. Then it should be said that it was absolutely necessary. In a country like Norway, everyone on the stand should have an income in relation to their work. The closure of the gardening has been flattened, farmers are more optimistic and see that the big community values the jobs they do and the products they deliver. The big community is making a lot of money. The organisations and the state negotiate on which direction to give priority. Roughage production, production based on what has flowed from Norway, is important. The same is the land grazing, where we would have to set up a clearing team soon if we didn't see that more things are going to go together and see the requirement that grazing animals are going to go out, even for animal welfare reasons. The right-hand side will remove the agricultural agreements. Yes, someone even wants to remove concession limits for production. What would Norway look like after the deregulation of most things? I think a lot of people should think about that. Far more than those who are in the industry, they would mark the re-growth and transfer of production to the best agricultural areas in the country. The Labour Party is suing the negotiating institute. Presidencies are alpha and omega for all who have to defend large investments. The agricultural industry is doing well. Production is record high, but we also consume more and more. The degree of self-sufficiency is now about 50 pst. The interaction between agriculture and tourism is of great importance. The tourists who visit us don't come here because it's particularly reasonable here. They are fascinated by the natural experiences our country has to offer. They are also fascinated by the agriculture that food producers give us all as a complementary experience, that is, the cultural landscape. It is important to bear in mind that landslides and grazing provide the best care for the lack of nature. Travel life is a growing industry, both on the mainland and on Svalbard. There are different challenges. But if we facilitate development based on nature's tolerance, we can be happy with it. Travel life offers good district work places, where a country as a whole is taking advantage of it — recreational activities where necessary, in interaction with primary producers and commercial hotels and travel businesses. Agriculture has such an absolute future. In a value where we have to take the climate challenges seriously, our national food production should be as much as possible. When we take into account the importance of the forest as a renewable resource and take advantage of the properties that he gives us, we are well equipped to achieve our climate goals. It will be interesting to follow the challenges and opportunities of agriculture in the years to come. Like the farmers themselves, I have a threat to the future when it comes to this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3106	After listening to this debate until now, I am left with a great disappointment. I had believed that the government parties would use this budget debate in the nutrition committee to show what offensive industrial policy the parties stand for. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade could not attend here today, but she did not participate in the financial debate either. I think a lot of people out there in business had been waiting for the government to come up with clear measures, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the context of the budget. Now, state councillor Pedersen has spoken, and she is, as you know, Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, i.e. no. 2 after the prime minister, and there was nothing new in her posts that could make business happy. We have now heard the same rule throughout the harvest, and that is that the state budget is adapted to the economic situation. But at the same time, you say you have to bring a larger package at some point in the new year. What is the point of delivering a larger package in the new year if the state budget is adapted to the economic situation? I don't know when you last came up with a bigger package in the new year after you had just treated a government budget. I think that was a pretty long time ago. What you should do was take advantage of the opportunity to shop now. The head of the Industry Committee, Ola Borten Moe, said that the situation requires that we take action quickly. That's a very good observation. It is urgent to take action now. Ola Borten Moe also came into tax relief. He follows up on the demands we made in the opposition around that theme. He also follows up on what a lot of international leaders have seen now, and that's that huge tax relief especially for ordinary people and smaller businesses is what it takes to do something about the economy, get the economy back on track. We know that both Barack Obama, Gordon Brown and the leaders of the European Union have brought that instrument. We also need a package for small and medium-sized enterprises. Earlier this week I was supposed to have an interpellation with the Minister of Food and Trade about the EU, who has come up with a Small Business Act. It is to make the world better for small and medium-sized enterprises and get growth among SMEs, which make up the vast majority of our business. Simplification of legislation, away from forms, the level of taxation should be reduced and businesses should be easier to establish. This means that when the EU comes with that type of package and is doing its job well, the EU will be more competitive in industrial policy than Norway is. That is what we are very good at in Norway, to lie down and bring the fire extinguisher when we see that we are not hanging out in time. Get an action package for SMEs now! Then there have been several relatively unsubstantiated attacks on the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. Those who have followed this process have seen that the Progress Party is the party that has the most offensive agricultural policy. What other party has promoted more innovative, forward-looking proposals in agricultural policy in this Chamber than the Progress Party has done? While some of the other opposition parties have made good proposals, in number and innovation it is the Progress Party that has made the most proposals. The problem in agricultural policy is that the development of industry is faster than that of politicians. We can't have it like that in a modern society. The policy then has to be in the forefront, otherwise we have to put the policy away and let the industries run themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3123	Through the year’s budget, the Government has shown that it is following up its commitments to invest in the agricultural industry. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has an offensive and good budget, which facilitates a clear leveling of agricultural incomes. We contribute to safer food and increased consumer confidence. We are strengthening the offensive forestry policy, and we are strengthening the commitment to energy and climate-related research and development. The development of good input for farmers is the cornerstone of the whole policy. It is essential to ensure agriculture throughout the country. Agricultural agreements 2007-2009 facilitate an average income growth over three years of NOK 60000 per year. annual work. At the same time, we have strengthened the distribution profile. Food security is an area high on the agenda by the Government. I want to focus more on food policy and consumer interests. offensive food policy reduces the distance between the farmer and the consumer. We have to make people most proud of the Norwegian food culture, and make an interest in what the whole food chain delivers. There is now a good basis for further work to ensure safe food. The increase we have achieved in the field of food gives the Food Authority the opportunity to re-prioritize the necessary areas. With this budget, it has been set up to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves for the eSporing project. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee believes it is important to have a system for the electronic traceability of food. In those cases where something doesn't work out, it's easier to track down the raw materials that cause the error. To spring, I will present a big message on agricultural and food policy and the climate challenges. Once the message has been submitted, I assume that we have started working well in several important areas. In the agricultural agreement, we got an increased commitment to bioenergy. Now in the budget, we have 246 million. kr to forest, climate and bioenergy measures, which is an increase of 14 million. kr. Coastal forestry shall be given priority in the management of forest policy instruments. There is a lot of the forest that can now be harvested in the coastal strips. This is where the increase in production and yield potential comes in the next 30 years. This is where, of course, we also have the biggest challenges. Not least, we now have a historic leap in bioenergy research, with an increase of 30 million. kr. New knowledge from research is essential for the achievement of the bioenergy objectives of the Government. Bioenergy must be seen in the context of my desire to shift pace in new industries, where energy production has a high potential for new jobs in districts. An offensive policy, a change of pace, is therefore needed to further develop the new industries in agriculture. With recent developments, this may be more important than ever. The job number one for the Government is to secure the jobs. However, we have to be honest and acknowledge that there will be increased freedom in the future. This is why it is important to facilitate the development of new jobs, and especially now. It also applies in agriculture. Although we are now facing a decline in economic activity, there are several examples of markets and areas with potential for increased industrial development. Consumers demand food with local identity and special history. Local authorities and public services increasingly demand Tunet services, such as education, work training and various forms of care provision. Agricultural-based energy production has a significant potential in a market that demands clean renewable energy. This concerns small-scale power plants and bioenergy, and we have built-up tourism and green tourism that has a significant growth. These are areas that need to be developed further through rural development funds, value-added programmes and research programmes. In the future, I will also look at the possibility of meeting the decline in the construction sector by stimulating increased investment in agriculture. The budget proposal provides a detailed overview of key management figures in the agricultural and food sectors. This shows the real development of the so-called agricultural bureaucracy. Agriculture and food management have ups that go far beyond dealing with only the farmer. It manages a sector with a complete value chain of 180 000 agricultural properties, 128 000 annual works and a production value of 156 billion DKK. The overall picture is that the important societal tasks of agriculture and food management are growing. A number of key tasks are managed within, inter alia: health, fisheries, the food industry and import controls. Production is increasing, business organisation is improving, while management is becoming smaller and more efficient. The facts show that major changes have been made, while the tasks have changed and complexity has increased. And it's a completely different image than the Right and Advance Party has produced it as. Efficiency and simplification should continue to have strong focus, but I would like to stress that in some areas we have probably reached a critical point in resource use in terms of agricultural-related tasks, perhaps especially in the municipalities. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for doing a good and thorough job on the vote. The position shows clear lines of view on the direction of agricultural policy. However, I note that a clear majority on the Stortinget supports the government's agricultural and food policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3167	I was glad that the Council of State said in its contribution that he should have a stronger focus on consumer interests. I think it will be absolutely essential for Norwegian agriculture in the future to have a significant market direction in relation to what the consumer wants, and I also believe that the farmer will get well paid. Manager of Norsk Bonde- und Småbrugerlag, Ole-Anton Tegen, has told VG that Norwegian consumers who trade in Sweden are unfair. I have sent a question about it to the Council of State that he will not answer by referring to the freedom of expression. The so-called adjustment negotiations for the agricultural settlement have now been launched. It has now been put on hold, because it has been seen that market forces also work in agriculture. In these negotiations, then, Norwegian prices will increase in relation to the rest of the world. Does the Council of State think that is a convenient situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3176	I am very concerned about the consumer interests. I'm of the same opinion as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr here. That is also the focus we have on food policy. Food policy helps to reduce the distance between the farmer and the consumer – between the primary producer and the consumer – and I think that is very important. We are now working very actively in this area. As regards the adjustment negotiations, the protocol in the agricultural agreement is clear. It shall be compensated beyond a certain level and shall be compensated by increased target prices. Those negotiations have stopped. We have asked the Budgetary Department to review the figures because the fertiliser prices show a decline trend. There is a new agreement between the Joint Purchase and Yara. I am committed to following the protocol in that way, in order to increase the target prices, and it is also stressed in the further negotiations on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3183	There was little talk of reforms in the posts of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, although the need for reforms has clearly reached the centre party’s mainstream – and that is sad, because agriculture is stuck in a regulatory environment. We have a relatively stable use of the land in this country; 40 pst. of agricultural land is currently tenure land. This means that those who invest in agriculture for the future must rent land to expand, while those who want to leave the farm do not get sold land because of price regulation and housing obligations. At the same time, there are 35,000 empty farms and fall due around the country, as a result of the housing regulations. What is the future of Norwegian agriculture, namely major co-operation, is faced with opposition from the Government, which puts unnecessary regulatory obstacles in the way of these uses, and discriminates against them in different contexts. Does not the Council of State see that agriculture now needs deregulation and that price regulation, sharing bans and housing obligations are old-fashioned heritage that must be abolished in order to achieve a forward-looking agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3192	I distance myself from the concept of representative Hansen of old-fashioned socialistic heritage. We are pursuing a development policy in Norwegian agriculture. What we're not concerned about is having a freestyle that the representative Hansen now makes himself a spokesman for. Our proposal to continue the obligation to live contributes to ensuring the settlement in the countryside, and our proposal to ensure price control helps to ensure the recruitment of young people to the industry. We also focus on those that are going into the industry, rather than those that are going out of it. Our focus on ensuring the ban on sharing will help to ensure good and safe units in agriculture. In the case of co-operation, we are concerned that there should be equality between use that has one owner and use that has four owners. There is no intention to have different rules, or to give advantages to a joint venture with four owners, rather than a use with one owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3199	With the exception of large joint farms, investment in agricultural buildings has long been on the way. There's a lot of reasons for that. But now we are experiencing a strong reduction in the order servers in construction and construction, and there is forecast to be a high level of unemployment in the industry. Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has suggested additional depreciation rates for, among others. agricultural farm buildings. It has been suggested that municipal labour funds should also be used for agricultural investment. The peasant layer has recently proposed a doubling of the permissions of the state-owned building development agents. All of this can become a win-win situation. Reasonable investment in agriculture can be realised and it can be a good incentive for construction. So my question is, will the Council of State actively contribute to the inclusion of these measures in the government's announced package of measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3208	I disagree with the representative Sørfonn that there is an investment drought in agriculture. There have been significant investments in agriculture in recent years, but what is the actual situation is that in the last two years the parties have not found it appropriate to reduce the increase in the items contributing to these investments. So there's a lot of demand beyond what you've been able to realize for increased investment funds. That's right. There are a lot of tools that can be used here. We meet the investment needs through the agriculturally agreed funds that we have at our disposal. With regard to this package of measures, which is now being worked on, to be submitted during January, all the measures proposed by the representative Sørfonn are under assessment, and then we will get back to that matter when it is to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3215	In the case of the conversion decision taken by the Minister of Agriculture in Stjørdal, Advocate General Thallaug said that the Centre Party does not take into account the industry and those who wish to operate. He went on to say that it has been confirmed once again that the Centre Party does not respect the active users, the construction industry itself, but is more concerned with preserving the right to inherit. I understand, of course, that the Minister of Agriculture would disagree. Can the Minister of Agriculture tell me what advantage Norwegian agriculture has as an industry in relation to the decision he has taken? And what kind of operation will the Minister of Agriculture recommend for profitable farming on farms – or is it perhaps not important, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3222	It's a well-known case of the Left will remove the odel law. In contrast to that, we in the Centre Party want to continue the Odelslaw and the Odelslaw Institute. It is quite obvious that there are many difficult balances in such cases. It shows not least the case mentioned by the representative of Kongshaug. In my decision, I have supported the clear majority of the Odel Law Committee and the Stortinget, who believe that the right to vote is good for Norwegian agriculture. I would like to highlight the views of the Odel Law Committee in its position, among others. the odel law ensures better agriculture, a self-owned farmer, better property structure, gender equality, etc. The Odel Act needs a review and modernisation, including: a simplification. We're going to fix that. We will come back to that in a matter for Stortinget in the new year. With regard to the matter that has been raised here, I will not comment on it specifically in addition to the decision that has been taken, which is referred to in the country's newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3233	When the Council of State acceded, he blatantly proclaimed that there would now be a new predatory policy, and several predators were to be shot. A few months later, he presented his first budget. The only thing that could be traced there from marked changes was that support for the People's Action has been proposed to remove new predatory policies, which fortunately changes the majority today. The Ministry of the Environment's budget makes provision for increased ramifications, which would lead to the depriving of the right of gravitational holders to use the land, but which will also, in theory, at least reduce the predatory conflict. The peg entry for pegs has been proposed session of 30 million. kr. Nevertheless, the government expects increased loss of buffoon. Then my question is: what has the Council of State done since he became the Council of State to follow up the proclaimed changes in Norwegian predatory policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3240	It is better to address parts of the question asked by the representative, Lien, to another minister and another department, but it may be. I will try to respond to the elements for which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible. We are concerned with prevention measures. We are committed to spending more resources on prevention, including: I understand that Mr Lien's representative is extremely sceptical. We are committed to ensuring that the farmer has the opportunity to be compensated when he has to take the animals from pasture. We are committed to ensuring faster extraction of pests when pest infestation is necessary. It has also been implemented. In fact, in parts of the country it could have gone faster. It is true, however, that in parts of the country there could have been better results of hunting, etc., but we have implemented changes in predatory policies in the framework of the decisions taken by the majority of the population. It's a compromise that we've agreed on and that we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3251	As it is obvious that the representative of Mr Korsberg believes that it is the representative of Mr Sørfonn who has negotiated the last fisheries agreement with the EU, I, on my side, find reason to congratulate the Minister for Fisheries on a well-achieved outcome of the negotiations. It is great that we have now come to grips with the Norwegian demand for a ban on discarding fish. The agreements shall include: The EU has agreed to introduce a high-grade ban from 1 January 2009. In practice, high-grading means that fish are thrown out for purely economic reasons. Norway and the EU also agree to establish a system for the closure and opening of fishing grounds in the North Sea. The aim is to protect juveniles, juveniles and spawning grounds. Norway also requires that all fish taken in Norwegian waters must be landed, irrespective of the port used. Vessels that break this risk being refused a licence to fish in Norwegian waters. The Liaison Committee has also been involved in the EU’s fisheries policy. We support the Government's ambition to play an active role in the design of a better international regulation for fisheries and aquaculture. In the North Sea, as is known to Norway, fisheries resources are managed together with the EU. We are therefore dependent on the EU to maintain and further develop good fisheries management. This can be illustrated by the situation of North Sea cod, where Norway has 17 pst. and EU 83 pst. of the allowance. One-sided management measures in the Norwegian zone have little effect on the cod population as a whole. That is why I am very happy that we have now taken a long step forward in this cooperation. In recent days, the NRK has shown pictures of a British trawler dumping fish caught in the Norwegian economic zone. In the past, the Coast Guard has documented similar cases. The NRC images are important because they show what this really is about: the moral despicable of wasting valuable food resources. Over time, there has been broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian fisheries policy, but there are now indications that the right parties are gathering in an attack on key elements of Norwegian fisheries management. The Party of Progress and the Right will remove the ownership restrictions in the aquaculture industry. This is new, but not surprising to us who have observed the Right Slide in the direction of the Advance Party. The desire for further liberalisation, less regulation and greater market regulation has been reduced to the budgetary remarks of the two parties. Nor is it so strange that the two parties – and now as a result of the Left – ask the Government to review both the Raw Fish Act and the Participation Act with a view to, as they say, modernisation and simplification. It is easy to see what this simplification and modernisation will mean: stronger ownership concentration, more capital power and the depletion of Coast Norway. The Progress Party is exemplaryly clear when it regrets the fact that Norwegian fisheries policy is characterised by a mix of regional and industrial policy instruments because, in their view, it impedes competition. In clear language, this means that capital-intensive fishing boat owners from the West must have free access to the purchase of vessels and quotas from North Norway and that they want stronger structuring than the current legislation permits. It's like hearing an echo of what I'm assuming is the innermost wishes of the fishing boatowners. However, this also means that the framework conditions for the fisheries and aquaculture industry are at stake if next year’s grossing-up option would give rise to a higher than today’s. Nor can the seamen meet next year's decision to raise their voices without fear. And here are the former government parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left that are the threat. At the very least, the Left will complete the net pay system for seafarers. The right and Christian People's Party will reduce it, while opening up NIS-registered ships to operate in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian continental shelf. The result of this is going to be pretty bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3276	The taboo of the centre party in predatory policies has been thoroughly debated both last Thursday and last Monday. However, I am concerned that half of Norway is being found and entraped in in a way. As I said, we have discussed this quite thoroughly twice before this last week. I'm just going to brief on four environmental issues, because that's what I normally do the most. The first is royal crab. The desimitation strategy outside the royal crab management area is impossible to implement in a sensible way without a disimitation fund — of course followed up by other measures to make the landing of small crabs profitable, for example. research and development. I am provoked by the fact that every year in this Chamber we must press the Government to ensure that the Association of New Crustaceans Policy is supported. It came into place after pressure from Stortinget this year, fortunately. A topic that is not mentioned in this year's budget is salmonmus, which has been highly updated in the media in the last three to four days. The industry has come a long way with the big community on the issue of escape. Today, salmonmus appears as the main obstacle in the industry’s struggle for political digestion for new areas. It's important that the government engages. Then I'll talk about aquaculture. The representative Inge Ryan, who comes from a large farm group itself, performs to report from this pulpit that Norway is only 50 pst. self-sufficient in food. It comes up every time we have this debate, and it still does not. Even in the North Trøndelag, fish are produced twice as much as agricultural produce is produced. In my home country, there are three small municipalities that each day deliver three million dinner spores of fish. I assume that the Minister of Fisheries is using this chance to confirm that Inge Ryan is wrong, and that I am right, when I say that Norway is exporting 19.5 million lunch calls a day. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, says that public instruments are not the solution to the financial crisis and the challenges facing industry. I fully agree with that, but the answer is more subsidies to agriculture, while the fisheries and aquaculture industries are faced with more taxes and taxes. One of the most absurd charges is the handling fee. It's calculated as follows: first, you take the number of concessions. So you multiply by the number of locations. If you're so unlucky to be outside the Trendelag, you have to multiply it by two again, because the Directorate of Fisheries and the County are going to have $15,000 each. If one is going to move these premises, one has to pay four times three times 15 000 kroner, times two, which is 360 000 kroner. There is a certain amount of processing when moving a concession, but the same handling fee must also be paid if you want to rename the ownership structure of the company. So growth in the aquaculture industry. We are in a situation today where growth in the aquaculture industry is more important than ever. We have increased international interest in the health effects of fish, and in Chile the aquaculture industry is down with broken back. Then there is a government strategy on the pre-allocation of new actors and, in particular, large actors. This merely shows that the Government continues to treat the aquaculture industry as a district policy rather than a food and industrial policy instrument. The small are, of course, important in the competitive image. The small ones are very good in terms of innovation and innovation, but then we come back to this that there aren't very many of the small and new players who are able to raise 8 million. kr per. concession. The Progress Party believes that these concessions should have been awarded free of charge. We can discuss that, but eight million. kr is too high. I challenge the Council of State to think about it until February – both in terms of price and the possibility of distributing it by instalment. It's the big players who have the ability to industrialize the industry. The government has said that they have an ambition to continue processing a larger proportion of the fish we land and produce in Norway. You can't do that if you just have to bet on small players. Large investments in processing plants depend on the safe availability of raw materials in sufficient volume. This should have led the Government to conclude that the concession award should be annual and predictable and that the maximum authorised biomass should be increased in the year’s draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3299	The President will ask the representative to avoid expressions which, at least here in the Chamber, can be regarded as banishment. In addition, the Stortinget does not adopt charges which may be described as absurd.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3302	We are entering a time of falling economic cycles and markets, primarily created by actors outside Norway. But as we all know, these effects get stronger every day. The uncertainty about how this will affect us in the future breaks down. Then it is important that we have an offensive industrial policy and an instrument that works. In my view, the State budget, as presented, is a budget to bring interest down. It's extremely important for business. Secondly, we have put in place the banking package, consolidated and strengthened the Municipal Bank, we extend the framework for GIEK and Innovation Norway and ensure that export finance can continue and strengthen its activities. New measures will be taken as they are properly clarified and planned. From the position of the Liaison Committee, I would like to highlight the agreement of the Committee on the space policy. This industry is important for Norway, it is driving the technology forward and contributes to innovation, new products and jobs also in industries and enterprises linked to the aerospace industry as subcontractors, etc. Although there are only twenty companies connected to the Norwegian Space Centre, these companies have a turnover of SEK 5.5 billion. The export share is 70 pst. and it generates jobs in enterprises across the country. Therefore, it is important that these appropriations are kept at a high level. The space industry is also an important element of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. Mining and mineral industries are also included. We are many who are now waiting for the new mineral law, and especially for the northern regions, Finnmark, Troms and Nordland, it opens up new opportunities. Mineral nutrition has come under the shadow of the oil industry. I hope that when the new mineral law comes, it will improve the conditions for a more offensive mining and mineral policy, where it will also make a stronger effort to map the Norwegian rock. Here we are sadly far behind our neighboring country, unfortunately. Mining and mineral deposits are located where they are and therefore create jobs and activities where they are located. Based on the fact that this industry has been in the valley of the shadows, the recruitment to industry and to NTNU training has also failed. The Committee therefore asks in a note that the Government has an alert eye to this effect and that the necessary measures are put in place to ensure that the industry is given adequate competence. The Committee has otherwise noted that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has given Bergvesenet a very clear mandate with a strict deadline with regard to alternative methods to stop pollution from mines on the Loop, such as the landfilling and covering of contaminated masses and the investigation of sewage treatment plants. For one who has been involved in and worked on these problems for 25 years, it is very gratifying to see that the demands made locally, which are professionally anchored, are met by the Government. Finally, a comment on the reindeer industry: there is very wide variation between areas in the extent to which it is sustainable. It is now particularly important that the internal organisation of reindeer management be put in place in accordance with the provisions of the new reindeer management law. If self-justice in relation to the upper roof of animal numbers does not work, the Council of State must intervene and fix this. Only a reindeer that is in balance with the resource base provides sound value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3319	Primary industries, agriculture and fisheries remain the mainstay of rural settlement and economic activity. In Norway, thanks to a targeted business and district policy, we have continued to live settlements and coastal communities. Agriculture maintains important Community values and it is necessary to maintain active and sustainable agriculture throughout the country in order to ensure the availability of clean food and to maintain living areas. Although much else is happening in Building Norway, agriculture itself is the support for housing and business in very many district municipalities. Agriculture has undergone enormous conversion and rationalisation, which naturally has resulted in a significant decline in the number of uses. Even from those batches that call for even more efficiency and rationalisation, there is a large number of declines in the number of uses. The structure of use has changed and production is large, without an industrial agriculture, as we see in many other countries. At the same time, we have a growing commitment to niche production and to the production of organic food. I am proud that the current government and the majority of the population have driven an agricultural policy that makes the closure trend run flat, that once again there is better recruitment to the industry, and that there is investment in the industry again. So we have robust food production all over the country, and we have to keep it and do it even better. Then the Medicine of the Advancement Party is not the right one. Their policy will result in a furoring of Norwegian agriculture in a very short time. They are not about modernisation, they are about closure. I have said it several times here in this room, but I repeat it again: agriculture is local and cannot be moved where profit is greater. Topography and climate are neither controlled by market forces nor by political decisions. Therefore, instruments need to be put in place to enable agriculture to operate throughout the country and under different climatic and topographical conditions. I think it will soon only be the big politicians of the Progress Party who have not understood this, but I see with concern that the Right is dangerously approaching the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. I am concerned that the many young and active farmers who need to build new operational buildings or restore old buildings need to be encouraged to do so. This is often crucial to ensuring recruitment and meeting environmental and animal welfare requirements. Today, we have many who are on the waiting list for investment in agriculture. These are farmers who have all the plans and drawings ready, and who are ready to put the spade in the ground. Increasing these investment frameworks will immediately have an impact on the construction industry, and this is an effect that will benefit large parts of the country. I hope and believe that the government will take a positive look at the recording that I and three other big business representatives made a few days ago. The challenges facing the agricultural and fisheries industries are quite different, but these two industries share the view that they are very important for rural settlement and economic activity. For the fisheries industry, the overall objective must be to ensure national right of access and control of our resources and marine areas. We must not deviate from the objective of belonging to the Community and not being privatised. I am also pleased that the government parties have a clear common political objective that the fisheries policy should continue to contribute to the development of living coastal and rural communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3347	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3350	Work for everyone is job number one for the Workers' Party – now as always. We're on our way into a global economic downturn that we haven't seen since the 1930s. Demand for the goods we produce in Norway is falling, and we expect increased unemployment next year. A good industrial policy is the basis for a sustainable employment policy. The Workers' Party is responsible for an active industrial policy in which the State, inter alia: through investment and ownership, strengthens Norwegian business. In these times, government involvement in key companies is particularly important because it creates tranquility on the owner's side. At Aker Stord, thousands of workers can see that they are, after all, luckier than many of their colleagues in the industry, because we have a government that, when necessary, took hold and ensured that the group now has good and long-term owners. Let me also say a few words about another state ownership, namely the ownership of state power in some of our regional power companies. For many years this has been a ownership that has worked well, to everyone's joy. In the Municipality of Kraftselskap of Bergenshalvøen, State power has raised more than DKK 1.8 billion in dividends since 1999, and the value of the shares has probably also increased considerably. In recent times, I have registered concerns from trustees in BKK and other regional power plants where Statkraft is a major owner. State power no longer contributes to the development of regional power companies in the direction desired by local owners, administrations and employees. Furthermore, it is said that Statkraft will narrow them rather than develop the companies, and projects and investments will be rejected despite being profitable and relying on synergies and competences that exist in the companies. These are serious signals. Our intention of Statkraft is, as the Ownership Notice says, to ensure control of water resources and the development of the Norwegian environment of competence in energy production. Governments should recognise that such competences must also be existing and developed in regional companies. These companies must continue to develop as strong value-creating partners in their own region, with good customer relationships. This development must be based on the exploitation of the individual company’s established advantage and ability to develop and innovation. State power must be a driver for the development of more climate-friendly energy and a forward-looking infrastructure with related customer-oriented activities, and companies must contribute to regional economic development and employment in the regions. Valuation needs to be required in terms of both profitable operations and social responsibility. In the budget we are now discussing, the state ownership is: «Member States shall be an active, long-term and predictable owner of major Norwegian companies. Through ownership, the country will contribute to the good and stable development of business in Norway.’» It is my hope that Statkraft will shift to this goal of ownership when developing its strategies, and it will not harm the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in an appropriate way guide State strength in how to exercise good ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3372	It was the representative, Mr. Borten Moe's first post that made me take the floor. I think he said something like it puts the Norwegian ownership of land open to the big capital, without any bonds, when he talked about removing the agricultural regulations. Now there is no hesitation in a parliamentary expression, but it must be said that this is as far away from reality as possible. And I actually think the Away Moe knows that, because he's marked himself a little bit like an oppositional in his own party lately when it comes to part of these themes. What the Central Party avoids responding to and taking up a debate are the results of the policy that the Central Party has been in the running seat for the last 40 years. It has brought about closures, depopulation and pessimism in agriculture, and a great deal of use is now empty. This is a scare-mongering propaganda from the Center Party, and they avoid getting into what is the result of their own policies. We can look at Sweden, which actually has an unregulated market, and see what happens there. It was actually investigated by a researcher at UMB a few years ago. I see the Minister of Agriculture smiling. It may be because Swedish agricultural policy is quite different from the Norwegian one. But they actually have a market that doesn't regulate. In Sweden, nine out of ten buyers are residents, nine out of ten sellers are non-residents, and for each other seller there is one buyer. In other words, there is also some structuralisation that we are actually looking for in Norway. For the forest industry, removal of regulation led to a considerable amount of activity. It was interpreted that in Sweden, forest industry means so much that you actually couldn't afford to sit with the kind of regulation we have in Norway. In Sweden, residents expand, and the structuralisation that we are looking for is achieved. So it's the regulations that create the challenges we have in Norway. In Norway, the death toll is on the move to become the largest owner group, and that is not exactly what creates a lot of optimism. So Borten Moe also said that the industry was without bonds. I hardly know about any industry that has as many informal links around ownership as the agricultural industry. When public regulation is added, the impact becomes quite strong. I thought it was important to refute this, because there is a lot of horror propaganda without any commitment in reality that comes about in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3389	The financial crisis has shown us a government that has been in arrears with all the necessary measures to combat rising unemployment. The government has refused to adjust a budget that everyone knew was based on far too optimistic assumptions. Yesterday, it was said this way: ‘For seven weeks the size covered a budget which had expired on the date of its adoption’. There is no worse than a former Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office in the 1980s who said this. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) promoted a proposal in the financial position for a package of measures against unemployment that increased the use of oil money at nearly DKK 5 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. The package would have gone to the necessary construction and maintenance of roads, railways, schools and hospitals. Business would also get better depreciation rules. Unfortunately, this package was voted down by the red-greens, although it contains the same elements as the Government's package, which were notified in the month change of January/February. I think few see why it is smart to wait with the package when the time off is growing for every day that goes. The Christian People's Party is impatient, and the package's size and main device must be clarified as quickly as possible, and at the latest within a week's time. The Christian People's Party is committed to providing its support for a comprehensive package in which public investment is the main instrument. The Christian People's Party will stress that we need to use this opportunity to address the climate challenges we are facing. Increased depreciation rates, in particular on machinery and equipment and on environmentally friendly investments, including: in the construction sector, examples are targeted instruments to combat industrial investment droughts. Better framework conditions for renewable energy will both make it interesting to expand Norway’s large renewable resources and create good green jobs. It could also have a positive impact in relation to the objectives of the climate agreement. Energy efficiency improvement, according to both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency, will be measures that can quickly give us the biggest greenhouse gas emission reductions. This needs to be stimulated. It is also essential that the package presented by the Government contains measures for a significant development of rail, pedestrian and cycle routes. Yesterday, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg received a letter from the Norwegian Bondelag, which calls for increased depreciation rates for agricultural buildings to be part of the Government's package of measures. This proposal is in line with the proposals of the Christian People's Party which are being discussed here today. But our red-green colleagues in Troms and Nordland have also spoken for the same thing, so the Christian People's Party's policy is targeted here, and it is good. There can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3413	At the end of the debate, I just want to make a few comments on what we've been listening to here tonight. Most have been concerned about the financial crisis. I think that is good, because it is important that we together can identify the best measures to counter the consequences of the crisis. The representative Korsberg challenges us on tax lines for SMEs. The government shall submit a package of measures. It is then important that we assess all measures. But the most important thing is that the measures that are being evaluated, which are to be included in that package, give employment and give them rapid employment. Nor do I believe that a reversal of the changes when it comes to inheritance taxes and property taxes will increase employment quickly. I would like to say a little about the inheritance fee, as it has been mentioned here. What we have to think about when we talk about inheritance fees is that the changes are initially made to make it a fairer fee, and for those who receive normal inheritance, or less inheritance, to get less tax. The government proposal would result in a 95 pst. receive a reduced inheritance fee. That's good. But then it's changed for the receipt of inheritance in unlisted companies. They're getting an increase in inheritance fees. But – just to repeat what I said before – to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, schemes have been put in place to help: the withdrawal period increases to 12 years. At this time, there is an interest-free deduction, and one gets a deduction from the inheritance tax on the property tax. The right is also talking about the financial crisis, and they have got a little hint in the disc about property taxes and inheritance taxes. In addition, the representative Torbjørn Hansen mentions my post in the VG from 24 August, where I wrote that business is going to be suspended. If the representative had also read the evening post, he would have seen that the evening post Economics three days later used the same heading, «Norwegian business goes so bad». What he forgets to mention is that he answered this post, and then everyone would rather be taking the honor himself. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr talked about a package for small and medium-sized enterprises, and he talked about simplification. Yes, I said that in my first post – 200 million. Go to Altin. This is a job that must always continue. He was talking about establishing businesses. No. 10 out of 180 countries on the World Bank ranking are actually pretty good, but that doesn't mean we can't get any better. We can. There's a lot of talk about the financial crisis. I just want to say: the most important measure that has now been taken is measures for banks to reduce interest rates, because lower interest rates are good for businesses, that's good for households, and that's good for people with large mortgages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3431	I may have been guilty of a neglect – I have to draw attention to the fact that the Minister for Food and Trade is ill and that this is why, unfortunately, she cannot be present in the debate today. I am absolutely convinced that she would very strongly want to be here. If she had been here, she would probably also have said that the mineral law is now about to enter for landing after very, very many years in the process. It will be a new and modern regulation that ensures good competitive conditions for that industry. In the debate here, disembarkation fishing for royal crabs has also been mentioned. Now there's about as much royal crab in the unregulated area as in the regulated one. A lot of royal crabs are being taken up outside the commercial area. We are now looking at schemes through Innovation Norway to see what the market can do to address king crabs in the area where it is to be decimated. If we don't get enough tools in place there, we also need to assess a state disincentive fund. Then I register that the Progress Party is calling for action against salmonmus. They want us to be offensive to overfishing. At the same time, they propose major cuts in innovation schemes for Norway and cutters in their procedural fee. This is not related. If we're going to be good at sustainability, we can't expect the market to sort it out. Then we have to have a fisheries directorate that has enough resources and enough people. Let me also make some reflections about the assessments of the budget submitted by the Right and the Advance Party. Every time we have a debate on the economic part of the budget, the Right Message of Long-termity and Predictability is preached. That is why it is very interesting to record the change in attitude that the Right has gone through from the state budget to the current budget. On the Right's website on 7 October, the title was "Declaration of War against Business", because the Right thought the Government was spending too much money. Then it was called from Torbjørn Hansen, Høre's nutritionist. ‘The government applies the rule of action in full and does not contribute to interest reductions. This shows that the red-greens are more concerned with short-term political gain than with lowering interest rates. This will, unfortunately, have a negative impact on large parts of the economy.’ Then it is quite surprising to note that the homework has changed completely since that time. Now it's called that the government spends too little money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3447	Let me start with the general economic descriptions that we have heard especially from the Progress Party here today: nothing is done. This despite the fact that it has been said again and again from this pulpit that the government has been on high. They have been delivered to the bank, which has been delivered on export, yesterday they delivered in proportion to the predictability of the municipalities. So at tax as an instrument. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr said that we now have to significantly reduce personal tax, and pointed out to countries like England and the United States. One should know that it would have a completely different effect to lower the tax in a country where a large part of the flow of goods is domestic. We don't produce our goods ourselves. Lowering taxes and increasing consumption are likely to contribute to increased imports and may not be the greatest aid to Norwegian business in the situation we are now seeing. On the contrary, the Progress Party has consistently prescribed this medicine, no matter what the economic situation we have been in. We go back six months in time, when we talked about pressure in the economy, the economic medicine of the Progress Party was still massive tax reliefs combined with enormously much more oil money use. In addition, there should be strict restrictions on labour immigration, so as to keep important labour force out of the country. It's very exciting, although we haven't focused much on it today, to imagine how this policy should be sewn together with the Right in any government cooperation. Then the Progress Party talks about a forward-looking agriculture under the slogan of freeing agriculture. It seems to me that you want to let go of the farmers, you want to let go of the agriculture. So they cut NOK 6 billion in an agreement that the Storting has already dealt with and approved, on the grounds that it was against them. It is a luxury that none of us can afford: to ignore the fact that Norway has obligations, that the Storting has committed the community to an industry or to other countries and other treaties. It undermines our entire democracy, our entire system. It may not be unexpected from the Progress Party, but disappointing from the Right. There's nothing else you can do but think that agriculture is something you can hack into, and get away with it. The proposals being promoted lead one way, and that is towards the 1920s and 1930s. That's fine. Those who have read some agricultural history and, as far as Norwegian economic history is concerned, will see that it was a time when everyone was fighting against everyone, no money was made, and there were great hardships and enormous problems. Norwegian agriculture has a global estimate. In the last six months, 150 million more people in the world are starving. That's almost a billion. It's not going to be less hungry that we stop using the basis of production we have. It requires an active agricultural policy across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3460	I am very surprised at the use of words and concepts used in this debate, both by the Right-wing Representatives and the Left-wing Representatives. The representative of Kongshaug characterises agricultural policy as «old-fashioned», the representative of Hansen characterises agricultural policy as «old-socialist heritage», and the representative of Gundersen states that the result of the Central Party's policy in the last 40 years is «destruction, demobilisation and pessimism». To the latter, I cannot say so much other than that the Central Party has barely been in government and position for the last 40 years, and I have seen that both the Right and other parties have been responsible for agricultural policy in government. That's how Gundersen sees Sweden. Then I almost have to flirt, when we see what the situation is like in the 'convents' on the other side of the border. Let's compare it to the open cultural landscape that we have in Norway, where we actually still have a viable agriculture, while there is complete dislocation in large parts of District Sweden, except maybe in Skåne and far south. When we took over after the Right and Left in 2005, the incomes of agriculture were very low. We have fought hard to repair the sins of the Right and Left in these years. And forestry lay with its broken back after the left's forest policy, which can best be characterized as going backwards into the future. We have reintroduced forest policy. The left's view of the forest and climate policy expressed in this position is at least not in line with international knowledge of the importance of forests for the climate, nor is it in line with the climate agreement that the Left itself has signed. We have continued what has been the policy of the Right and the Left in terms of the framework for the co-operation. Then we get criticism for being antisocial. Right, on the other hand, will discriminate against use that has one owner. So if you use 400 tons, you're going to have worse conditions than a use with four owners that produce 400 tons. That's what's the consequence of what the right here says about the instruments for the co-operation. We can't go in for that. Here we actually agree with what Sponheim stood for when he was Minister of Agriculture. What is this? Is this about a level playing field? Here, too, is right on taboo flight from your own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3469	Many people use today's debate to talk about the financial crisis, and how important it is to be proactive. That's absolutely right. But what strikes you when you hear the government talk about the budget being adjusted is, of course, the many crisis packages that came along and show that the budget is not in any way adapted to the situation. When you look at the tools of the Government, you see, first of all, that someone is using the interest rate policy. And it's very important. The level of interest rates is too high for many enterprises compared to the level of profitability they currently have. But it is nevertheless a fact that the interest rate is not something that the Government directs. It's an instrument that they can hope for Norway's Bank to do something about, but it's out of political reach initially. Secondly, the Government uses liquidity packages and guarantees to secure funding. It's also very important. However, what the government rarely or never comes up with is the general framework conditions for business, which, although liquidity is in place, still make it profitable to leave Norway. I have visited a number of industrial companies in the last few months. All of these power-generating industrial enterprises say that there are framework conditions that need to be put in place to trigger investment for the future. It's okay, they need liquidity, there's no doubt, we all agree on that, but in terms of framework conditions, it's completely silent from this government. The trade union Industry Energy has already booked SV's lawn in front of Stortinget to have its own demonstration now again – on 13 June 2009. And the background is what Leif Sande says about industrial power to Stavanger Aftenblad today: "The government has not fulfilled the promises." So this is an annual phenomenon that the trade union Industry Energy is doing. Every year they are promised from the red-green parties that now there will be an industrial power regime, and every year they just have to start planning next year's event. That's not good. The worst thing is that both in terms of industrial power, as taken up by the Government, and the CO2 quota strategy, which is the other thing that needs to be put in place, the Government is going in the wrong direction compared to what one sees in our competitors. This means that the risk of industrial activity in Norway is increasing in relation to our competitors. At the end of the day, if the profitability of these industrial enterprises fails, it will not help how much of the cash packages are provided in terms of funding. It is then that one will have such consequences as one has already had on Karmøy, where one chooses to shut down aluminium companies in Norway rather than in the competitor countries. I had hoped that in this debate the Government would focus more on the framework conditions needed to maintain profitability when funding and liquidity are in place – and you don't see it. Similarly, the Government should use more energy and petroleum policy to give clear signals that this is something to bet on, these are capital-intensive industries that can get the wheels going again if they believe that operating in Norway is profitable. But so far we see that Statkraft is moving the investments out of the country and not into the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3487	Several representatives and also several state councils have said today that we cannot take the necessary action now because we have adopted a budget to bring interest down. What does that even mean? What economic reasoning is behind this? So we are talking about the 2009 budget, and in January/February, the Government will present a package of measures. The Prime Minister has said by today that it is only to start planning projects, because the money is coming, that is enough of money. So the budget is going to be one month, and it's going to bring it down. So in January, interest is going to fall, but money that comes in February and the rest of the year is supposed to have no effect on the Norwegian economy at all and has no effect on interest rates. So is it really a'stupid budget' that the red-greens have adopted? A'stupid budget' to trick the governor, saying that here's the budget that we're adopting, now you can set interest rates down, and then the money comes in February and the rest of the year -- you probably don't notice that anyway, and then the interest rate can stay low. There's no logic in this. And I hope that representatives and state councils stop using that argument. We hear that the Prime Minister is still on the radio and tells the Norwegian people that we have adopted a budget to bring interest down. But when he tells in the next breath that he's going to inject billions after the budget has worked for 30 days, it's a completely unrealistic reasoning. I understand that the red-green representatives want to be loyal to their own government, but a certain degree of economic reasoning on their own is possible to draw also in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3494	I am pleased that the Council of State Helga Pedersen reads my press releases that go out with the budget, because there she can find a lot of good input into securing the jobs in Norway, it should be safe and certain. I will be the first to be humble in relation to the economic development that has been in the harvest. It is true that when the budget was presented on 7 October, it was not a budget that seemed to dampen the interest rate. But the Right has, unlike the State Council Helga Pedersen and this government, been able to see the developments that have been this autumn. In fact, as early as October 13th, we recorded that the Central Bureau of Statistics provided a forecast for the Norwegian economy that deviated dramatically from what was inside the government budget. It showed that unemployment would increase sharply, that demand for Norwegian companies would fall dramatically, that investment would fall, and that the Norwegian economy would enter into a declining situation. It is clear that when we get that knowledge in five days, everyone should think about the arrangement of the State budget. What is shocking, on the other hand, is that the government sits on that knowledge. They see what's happening out there in the world. You let it go seven weeks before you realize that the budget is out of date. The only thing that happens after these seven weeks is that the government needs new eight weeks to take action to secure Norwegian jobs. It's a paralysis of action, which I don't think any other government in the Western world could have cost itself in such a serious situation. I may admit that the criticism of the interest rate in my press release went out to date, but we are also able to see that the world is changing, and I think Norwegian workers would have earned that Government understanding. What was otherwise stated in the press release, entitled ‘Declaration of War against Business’, was the proposal to withdraw equity from Norwegian enterprises. We may have an ideological debate on wealth taxes and on distribution policy, but there is no doubt that in a situation where funding disappears, where access to equity is diluted as dew for the sun, it is a major problem for businesses to be able to absorb equity. This means that in a difficult situation you will have to permit and cancel more people than if you had solid access to equity. I think that's child's lesson for most people who are involved in industrial policy. Then I just have to say about the inheritance fee and what Gunvor Eldegard said earlier today: We have farms in the Bergen area that have received 27 times higher inheritance tax, and where an inheritance settlement will weaken the operating basis of such a company. It is clear that in a financial crisis such a narrowing would have dramatic consequences and impact on employment in Norway. Otherwise, I must say to the Council of State Breck about old-fashioned socialistic heritage: Yes, it is an old-socialist heritage when the state has to determine the price of a farm. It's a regulatory regime that we don't see the husband in any other sector. It is pure socialism when the state regulates the price of houses and homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3509	I am recording that Ola Borten Moe and several of the other speakers from the red-green side say that the government has delivered to business, among others. relative to the export industry. But this is not something that has come on a continuous bond from the Government. This has only come about after business and opposition have asked the Government to take action. Then, after carefully considering whether this is something that is worth listening to, the Government has taken action that others have been in the lead to ask for. Then I register that Ola Borten Moe goes back to her promises of tax relief, and says that it will increase imports, and therefore will not be lucky. This is like when the Minister of Finance put in Redaktion EN and said we couldn't have tax reliefs, because then people put money in the bank. Then you have great faith in the self-discipline of the Norwegian people right before Christmas! I do not know if Ola Borten Moe has been in town for the past few weeks, but if he had been, he would see that we have now received January sales in December, before Christmas. Then there is something serious wrong in the Norwegian economy, and then you have to have significant incentives. Interest-reduction is one thing. A significant tax relief on top will help to remedy that situation. Then, not surprisingly, there will be more attacks on the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. If it were to be so that the Progress Party would not be able to debate matters adopted by the majority, then the debates here in Stortinget would be considerably shorter. As the representative Mr Borten Moe knows, during this period the Progress Party has been the party that has made significant forward-looking proposals and structural proposals in relation to the agricultural industry. The Centre Party has now been sitting on both sides of the agricultural negotiations for the past 30 to 40 years. Once the farmer has reached an average income of more than NOK 200,000, it is strange that the centre party is satisfied with it. We know that we now have approx. 8 000 full-time farmers. This means that, in principle, we have a policy for part-time workers in Norway. I record that the representative Borten Moe still lives in the 1930s. This is worrying about agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3522	When the representative Hansen presents the financial turmoil as a big surprise to the Government, I will refer to the description of the financial uncertainty in the State budget, which is also the reason why the Government included more oil money in the 2009 budget. So it's interesting to see what reception the Right Crisis Package received, here referred to in the Evening Post on Wednesday, November 12, under the heading «Industry also says no», where Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe, professor of social economy, says: ‘It is difficult to see that the Right’s budget is improving.’ Then to the Progress Party, as has been the case here in the Chamber, about framework conditions. Now let's agree that the level of interest rates is one of the most important framework conditions for Norwegian business. The Progress Party will now pursue counter-cyclical policies in recessions, after they have been engaged in economic policy for years – while we have had good times. The Progress Party always has taxpayers' money and always has money to spend more on the government budget, whether it's high economic activity or low economic activity. I think we should all be so happy that it is not the economic policy of the Progress Party that has been at the root of the times we have now left behind. At that time, we had gone into the financial crisis with a much higher level of interest rates — a sky-high, curious level of interest rates — as a starting point for dealing with the crisis. And then it would have helped very little to cut the handling fees of the Directorate of Fisheries, to put it that way. I must also say that for those who had to think about voting civilly at the next autumn elections, it must be very little trusting that the Right Party and the Advance Party, which are taking the aim of stabling on the feet of a bourgeois government option, have such broad opinions as to what economic policy they are going to pursue. They are complete on collision courses – the right has even mentioned the economic policy of the Progress Party as a casino policy. The government is committed to securing jobs. That is why we have pursued a responsible policy and kept up the use of oil money in good times. Now we have put forward an offensive budget, with a number of measures for business, on the transport side and on the construction front. It is in itself a large package of measures, in addition to the banking packages we have presented, and the package we have announced in the New Year. This is a development of measures adapted to the economic situation — and the financial crisis, as it emerges from the Norwegian economy. We're going to take the necessary measures when they're needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3538	I had not intended to extend the debate beyond the evening, but when there are so many others who are doing it with joy, it is tempting to respond to what has been said. The representative Steinar Gullvåg was in the Left and the proposal that we are in favour of simplifying and modernising the participation law and the raw fish law. What's so dangerous about that? After all, it is to adapt a law according to today's situation, and we do not intend to abolish it. There's a difference between shaving and cutting off the entire chin. We must not be terrified of adapting to the law after the time we live in. Then I registered that here in the pulpit we had a clearly irritated Minister of Agriculture, who corrected the various parties in the storeroom. He has the right to do so, and he may have reason to be annoyed — when a decision is based on local centre teams around. It is not the people who are supposed to be in charge of Norwegian agricultural policy. And he was annoyed that I have said that the Senter Party has an old-fashioned agricultural policy. It's obvious. The Odel Act, which is so much fenced up, was a law that arranged a queue into a business that was so attractive that we had to have a queue to sort it out properly. But now it's not queueing into that industry. Now it's about doing to get the good people, recruiting the good farmers, letting them get away with it. That is what the future of the agricultural industry is. Then I also registered a broad side towards the forest policy of the Left. It's not just about giving money and doing exactly what you've done before. When the Left sat in government, we directed to the Forest Fund scheme in the form of significant tax relief, which was well received by the forestry industry. But there's a part that thinks that just we donate earmarked money, it's more important than anything else. The Forest Fund Scheme is one of the best improvements in forest management in recent years. So when Norway grows again, it's no use just to keep planting. We also need the plants that grow. The left took on what was important, that's to get value creation out of the tree. And if you get value creation and profitability out of the tree, the forest industry will do itself, both in terms of harvesting, and in terms of planting. If grandpa did so in one way, both in terms of running a farm, and in terms of running a forest, it is not certain that the grandchild should do so in the same way. Anyone who believes so must bear the stamp ‘representative of an old-fashioned policy’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3551	I would like a little bit of back to the MTB, maximum permissible biomass. An increase in it could have led to immediate production growth, especially in central Norway, but also in many other places. It could also have happened without the need for a new capital injection, which is improperly a challenge in some places. However, the MTB Code is also, above all, a challenge for small farmers, for which the Government claims they are most concerned. I'd like to quote from today's IntraFish: ‘The MTB system is rigid and very flexible for small farmers when, for example, the market fails, says Karsten Måsøval.’ Major actors have a completely different possibility of moving biomass. And more concessions per. The location also opens up for greater dynamics, which small breeders do not have the same possibility. They thus have much stronger limitations due to the MTB Code. I suspect that the government's opposition to an increase in the MTB is about that this would be very difficult to tax – and that is obviously the goal of most of what the government is doing. Desimation fishing is just as big outside as in the administration area of royal crabs – yes, it should just be missing! The decimation area is much, much larger, and it's based on a completely different model, that it's going to be king crab in one place, and it's not going to be king crab in the other place. Therefore, I would assume that there must be much more fishing in the area where there should be no king crab, than in the area where the king crab is to be managed as a resource. Then I want to take up something different and very serious. With regard to the summer seismic conflict in Lofoten and the Westphalia, fishermen in that area were given a guarantee from the Government that no later than four months after the application was submitted, these cases should have ended. So far, 25 out of 70 cases have been dealt with. It worries me, and I would strongly ask the Council of State to follow up this matter, so that during January you will be able to get these cases landed, so that you will not once again contribute to a further escalation of the conflict in the sea areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. Then I just want to challenge the Minister of Agriculture on one thing. On Monday, I asked Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, if it is a goal that the objectives of the bioenergy strategy on 14 TWh renewable bioenergy should be achieved mainly through national raw materials. The Minister of Agriculture would like to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3567	Ola Borten Moe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3571	First to Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr: My considerations were, therefore, markedly reduced. I also believe that a targeted tax relief aimed at business can and will be important. So Kielland Asmyhr says that the income has only now reached NOK 200,000 per year. use. There are some considerations in particular that pay levels are low. Then the answer from the Progress Party, namely to cut NOK 100,000 overnight, is very strange. What I thought I'd spend a little time on was property policy. Conservatism is based on changing to preserve. In that tradition, I am. We should maintain a decentralized property right for all, where it comes with obligations. It's the Norwegian tradition. Instead, the right has started a liberalist crusade, removing all restrictions on capital with the free flow of capital. That's a big difference. To the left of the forest, I want to say that it's not about doing what my grandfather has done, but you don't want to take it out, because you want to keep it. It is the choice of the Left in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3582	After hearing the previous speeches, it is obvious that the political position is inherited from generation to generation, without the ability to think new. It's sad. It was the State Council Pedersen that made me take the floor. There's an impression that the state budget is so well adapted to the situation we're now in. It is only the members of the government who claim today. All economists, all analysts, even all red-green political commentators say it's obvious that today's budget is not made from the economic situation we have now. Let me just look in the budget. Unemployment was to increase by a quarter of a percentage point over the next year. After all, before the year has begun, a target has already been set. It's going to be a slightly weaker growth. I'm happy to see if we actually reach that goal, because it'll be a very good economic growth situation, taking into account everything. All economic indicators and all analyses show that this budget is not adapted to the economic situation, and the fascination with it is that if the budget were so well adapted, there would be no need for crisis packages, because it would already have been included in the budget. Coming up and claiming something else gives politicians contempt, because it's so obviously far from the truth. So you're talking about the interest rate level. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with the fact that the interest rate should fall, and that it benefits both households that are struggling with debt, industry and business. At the same time, however, it is a fact – and most of the politicians in this room have boasted about the Norwegian financial system and monetary policy – that interest rates are set at arm's length away from politicians. We can't in any way give any detailed control as to what the interest rate is going to be. There's just hope that the Bank of Norway does, as we here in this debate estimate is good. But one cannot use it as income for the government's policy that now the government is doing something that reduces interest rates, because Norway's Bank responds to what one sees; one is not required to do it. Then came another statement from the Council of State that the Progress Party would pursue a policy that would result in higher interest rates. Our alternative budget has been submitted to the SSB for calculation for many years, and the phase has been the same every year: the interest rate in the world of the Progress Party would be reduced if we had implemented our policies. It's the same models as a user when calculating the government's policy and its consequences. Finally – again – in terms of framework conditions: if you can do something about the framework conditions, business reinforces its chance to compete. One can do so in energy policy, so that State power invests in Norway rather than in Sweden. One can do so in industrial policy that StatoilHydro invests in wind turbines in Norway rather than in England. One can do so by investing the petroleum industry on a Norwegian base rather than moving more and more capital to Africa and Brazil, because the members of the government are going to say that now a political government is going to take young people away from petroleum-related education, and one says that one is going to stop exploration in Norway. The kind of debate that I saw on the Political Quarter last Monday, in which the Red-Green Government parties argued between themselves, is the worst form of industrial policy in Norway. It just creates uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3599	The Progress Party has received criticisms, among other things. to reduce red tape in the various departments, for example: in the case of Innovation Norway, on which the State Council of Helga Pedersen was involved. What is the real world of very many businesses today is that they have to cut both in administration and in their production due to economic downtime. The private business is in a real world, where they don't get to be granted money over a government budget, but actually have to make the money they need to pay, among other things. wages and salaries. Then it becomes a little bit strange that it seems very dramatic when we do a little reduction. Then we have been criticised for agricultural policy and for reducing the agricultural agreement. It's an agreement that we've been against, and we're also using this opportunity to make it visible. But it's quite amazing that the red-green parties now have actually forgotten what they themselves have done. As far as last year's debate is concerned, they decided that the shipping industry would pay NOK 21 billion in tax retroactively. So creative we haven't been in agricultural policy – and we're not going to be – that we require a refund of taxes. In the case of the sea fishing fleet, the framework conditions are changed reasonably dramatically, from an everlasting quota to a fixed-term quota. The government has done a part that has not been entirely in line with what industry wants, to say it reasonably cautiously. The District Council of Helga Pedersen was in on the interest rate. It's quite amazing that when the interest rate goes up, the red-green seven steps back and says that we don't have anything to do with this, it's Norway's Bank. But when interest rates go down, they say that this is government policy. It's not easy to understand the logic of this, and I don't think I'm going to do it either. What's different about us and the red-greens is that in the Progress Party we actually have a ability to prioritize. That's what our entire budget is spending on, we're reducing and cutting in some areas, and then we want to give a much stronger priority in other areas. We spend more oil money than the others do, we've been doing that for years. The others have put this money into shares abroad, there has been no particularly lucrative investment. If these funds were used to invest in Norway, for example, invested in transport, much more would have been recovered. Now, this money's supposed to be on the world's stock exchanges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3614	I have a great deal of understanding that the representative of Kongshaug has a need to make sure that he stands with the Right and the Advance Party in a proposal to release the participation law and the Raw Fish Act. It can, of course, be an expression of a duty of faith when the representative Kongshaug says that he will only adjust certain points of the law. But I assume that when he now agrees with such a proposal, he also has a clear picture of what in this law he wants to modernise and renew. It has guaranteed his partners, because the policy they are pursuing is constantly and systematically moving towards deregulation, liberalisation and greater market righting of the law, as we know from the attitudes throughout the year. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr today has shown that he knows more about the family of Milton Friedman than about Keynes. This is not surprising because it has been the policy of the Progress Party at all times. They have a clock faith in the market and market solutions that others of course find difficult to understand, especially in a situation where the international financial crisis has demonstrated the inadequacy of the market. Now more than ever, it is important — it is recognised in most countries and by most, except for the Progress Party — and it is necessary for the authorities to intervene against the market, regulating market activity in such a way that we prevent market forces from destroying the Norwegian economy. Therefore, we need to use the public sector consciously to create jobs for those people who become unemployed as a result of the failure of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3621	The representative of Kongshaug is talking about an irritated councillor – I would rather say it so that a committed and eager councillor is right. I want to comment on the forestry policy to the left a little bit more. This government has reintroduced forest policy. The left proposes a cut of 70 million. kr this year, and they have proposed cutting earlier. Forest planting is an important measure to maintain production in forests, which will lead to increased opportunities for nutrient development, while having a favourable climate effect by binding CO2. We also know that the forest owners under the Forest Act are required to ensure a satisfactory rejuvenation of the forest after the harvest. In the study forest it must be planted, while it is a little easier for pine and deciduous trees to rejuvenate naturally. In parts of the country there is a lack of infrastructure, and we need to take action to build new roads. Forest roads may conflict with environmental interests. That is why special requirements and specific authorisations are required for all forestry constructions. Public support therefore contributes to opportunities for good road projects which can operate across property boundaries and which emphasise environmental considerations. So to the climate accounting and the forest. The left is critical that the Government — as one says — includes forests to decorate the accounts of total CO2 emissions in Norway. Then I want to say it so that in the climate agreement, on which the Left has joined, the contribution from the forest is included in the goal of the Norwegian emission reductions to be taken home. That's what the left has joined. So it's absolutely amazing that we get such a comment from the Left in this case, I think. And then about the ‘reinstakka socialism’: the right has suggested that we treat cooperatives differently and better than single use. We have pursued the policy of the Left and Right in the last government in connection with cooperatives, and we have pursued that policy in terms of harmonising subsidies, so that cooperatives have the same conditions as single farms of equal size. Of course, it should not be worse for a single use, and for a single family, to operate a farm than for a cooperative. That is the principle we have followed from the policies of the former government. I think that is a good principle, and I don't think that should be characterised as «reinspicka socialism», as Mr. Torbjørn Hansen pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3642	First, I want to answer the questions that were asked about the MTB from the Progress Party. There are two reasons why we are taking out the growth of production in the case of new concessions and not increasing the maximum authorised biomass. When we presented the aquaculture strategy last year, we said we should do it. I am fully aware that there are many in the industry who want an increase in MTB, instead of a new concession award. However, at least as important for the farming industry is the predictability and conduct of the same policy from 2008 to 2009. I am also not sure if it is desirable right now with an immediate production growth, with the uncertain market outlook you have for next year. It is important that growth is controlled and that the market can take away what comes from Norway. Let me then return to the interest rate, because it is obvious that the level of interest in Norway is affected by the use of oil money in the State budget. It's no use that the Progress Party has managed to convince anyone in the SSB. I'm not going to go into what kind of office they're sitting in, whether it's a small corner office or a big corner office. But in any case, it doesn't help convince them as long as the governor is not convinced. And when the representative of Korsberg says he doesn't understand the logic of this, it's a warning to all those who have the job or the dwelling's love, against voting the Progress Party. The budget presented by the Government for 2009 is an action package where we spend 14 billion more on oil money. That budget is starting to work in two weeks, and it will not disappear in the next year. Several actions have been submitted under the budget and several actions have been notified in 2009, adapted to developments and the situation. The central thing here is that we see how one medicine works, before we use the next one, so that we help the patient instead of killing him or her.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3651	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3654	If this had been an agricultural debate in the 1930s – where Ola Borten Moe is clearly located – and it had been said that in 2008 there would be 47 000 active farmers, the Centre party would have concluded that there would be a high level of unemployment, and the whole of Norway would fall. I've actually seen Ola Borten Moe as a renewer of the Central Party's policy. He's dared to say from, but we have to record that it's best suited in the media. It is clear that the farmer has good reason to be dissatisfied with the efforts of the Center Party. When you only have NOK 200,000 in income, and you have to go for a feather seven days a week, 365 days a year, you have good reason to be dissatisfied. But one cannot blame the Progress Party for such income development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3661	Most of it has been said in the debate, which in many ways has our persuasiveness. But I have to say that I am a little stunned when the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde is standing here on the pulpit and says that the government is putting forward a'stupid budget' to bring down the interest. Just as if the Government were trying to trick the governor! In fact, I have more confidence in the governor than I did – that he didn't let himself be fooled. The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr asserts with a high voice that the Progress Party is the new party that makes the most modern proposals. Maybe that's right. At least there is no doubt that the Progress Party is the party that delivers the most suggestions in this room, but if they are realistic and innovative, I am not sure about the jam. Let me give you a few examples: The party of progress believes that private business has far too bad conditions with today's government. They point to that, among others. SMEs pay unnecessary amounts of money in taxes and taxes and that they stay home from too much bureaucracy. The representative of Gullvåg earlier in the debate took a line on the representative of Korsberg, where he addressed the very question that I am now going to raise. In order to coordinate public information to business when it comes to establishment, business requirements or information about the EU, two bodies have been set up. One is called Bedin, and the other is the Narvik phones. There are two agencies that provide free business services – I stress free business services. The party of progress is the only party that wants to take away from business these important information services. Then one has to start wondering what's meant by it. Why do my Progress Party say this should be services that companies have to buy in the market? That's a cost to the companies. The answer from the representative Korsberg, that business does not receive reductions in taxes and charges, when the counterpart of the funding is cut in agriculture at NOK 6 billion – otherwise broken by agreements – cut in aid with billions, and then the 31 billion spend more of the oil money in their budget than the government puts up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3672	The President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is over, but will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3677	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3681	The representative of Gullvåg defends on a seeming ideological basis the participation law, the raw fish law and geographical quota distribution. This means that the Grotvedt family, which operates fishing facilities in the Orland, will not receive a quota, while a more famous shrimp fisherman named Smoke will have its own industrial facilities. You could ask yourself if it's about party membership, but I guess I should avoid that. The representative of Gullvåg also believes that fishermen in the Nordic region should not be allowed to buy quotas from Trondelag, but that fishermen in Finnmark should have to buy quotas from Nordland. That this is not a trick, I am quite sure – but it is clearly believed by the representative of Gullvåg that it is. But that this has something to do with ideological differences in the Storting, I strongly believe that it doesn't. So to the MTB, which the Council of State was in on. That it was tricked six months ago, doesn't mean it's tricked today. The government has largely changed all other industrial policies, and then one should have been able to change this part as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3690	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3693	In my last post today, I don't need to defend the policy of the Progress Party, but I actually need to defend the SSB. I have to say that I reacted quite strongly in the way that State Council Helga Pedersen spoke about the SSB, and that we are sending our alternative state budget to the SSB in order to make calculations of, among other things, the SSB. how it would affect the level of interest rates. When the council tries to make sure that the SSB only comes up with some calculations after we almost ordered a result, I have to say that I react very strongly to that. So the SSB is politically independent. They do a job no matter who delivers a job, and they deliver a result from it, regardless of political opinions. The fact that the Council of State has such a bad argument against the Economic Policy of the Progress Party, most of it actually tells.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3700	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5, 6 and 7. [[Votation, see pages 1406, 1417 and 1418]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3716	No one has asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1419]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3729	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-8. Since the President has been involved in the debates on which we are going to vote, he will, for the sake of order, ask for the approval of the Chamber to grant a derogation from the fourth paragraph of Section 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. – No objections have been raised, and it is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3739	50 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-20, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 21-23, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 24, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposal No. 25, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 26, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals 27-29, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 30-45 by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 46, from Trond Helleland on behalf of Right and Left proposal No. 47, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 48-50 by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3773	Irene Johansen has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3776	In the debate earlier today, I signaled that the representatives of the Eastfold Workers' Party would support proposal No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox During the evening, this has evolved into a political game that we do not want to participate in. The case is dealt with in the Ministry of Transport and is decided in the Government. In the debate today, the Council of State has said that she is in constructive dialogue with the airport and sees the importance of maintaining it. We will therefore not support the proposal that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3781	It's registered. There will be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 48, 49 and 50, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the replacement of polluting diesel fuels by high-polluting gas ferries.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the gradual construction of a new Ski Station.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for the construction of new double-track southwards in the extension of the double-track between Sandnes and Stavanger.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3809	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a maintenance fund for transport purposes of 40 billion. krones. The annual rate of return shall be in addition to ordinary appropriations and used to meet the challenges of the major slowdown in the maintenance of the road and rail networks.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3824	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to suspend and transform the works of production of the Railway Agency as soon as market conditions so permit, cf. further mention in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 2 and Budget-in. [[2004-2005]] [[2004-2005]] S. No 13
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3840	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 30-45, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the non-state airports of Stord, Notodden and Ski in the cross-subsidisation system currently operated between State airports.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibilities and effects of establishing a functional and decommissioning system of bypasses that direct traffic away from Oslo City, based on Rv 23, Rv 35 and Rv 120, or alternatively Rv 22. ‘... Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for carrying out trials on free national road ferries in several counties.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of its own case on the national road ferry services involving the modification/extension of the criteria for classification, and the re-disposal of ferry equipment based on changes in road networks and the operation of new ferries.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate legal liability into the Road Traffic Code for accidents caused by road keepers.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for a system of classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to remove Section 27 of the Road Code, which provides access to the use of toll financing for public roads and public transport.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of the objectives, strategies and measures relating to transport safety for the whole transport sector.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish ongoing State supervision of the Urban Railway Project in Bergen.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks for statistics on direct and indirect energy consumption for the various modes of transport to be compiled by the Government.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on financing tools for investments in the transport sector. The size assumes that this is done independently of the treatment of a new national transport plan.’» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the growth of traffic to be taken into account in the preparation of a new national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of transport charges and charges with proposals for a future strategy for the use of charges and charges in order to achieve national transport policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to provide appropriate information on the external evaluation of the Coastal Authority’s management of the Server Action and on the follow-up measures that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs considers necessary.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government requests that all public actions under public law relating to accidents and emissions, routinely as part of a permanent evaluation plan, be also audited by the National Audit Office.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case dealing with the financial consequences for the municipality and the municipalities in connection with the introduction and operation of the new emergency network. The case must also make it clear how the additional costs, if any, are to be financed.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3934	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 27, 28 and 29, from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base its claim on climate-friendly technology for all new national road ferries.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the further operation of the Bratsberg Railway in cooperation with the Telemark County Municipality.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case on measures to strengthen public transport throughout the country, including the introduction of 50 pst. youth rebate.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3960	There will be a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. The Storting asks the Government to present its own case on this matter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3975	There will be a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to open up a driving test to be carried out under the control of traffic schools approved for this purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3990	There will be a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to coordinate the Urban Railway Project in Bergen, cf. St. pp. [[2004-2005]] No 75 and Inn. [[2005-2006]] S. No 94
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e3996	The Christian People's Party shall vote in favour of proposal No. 24th@item: inlistbox That is what we announced in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e4010	There will be a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Party of Advances, the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Moss Airport concession terms and conditions so as to remove the passenger roof and set the opening time to 0 p.m. 06.00 to 24.00. In the event of a delay in arrival, a landing is permitted after 1 p.m. 24.00.’» The left has alert support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e4028	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 22 and 23, from the Party of Advances, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the implementation of road tunnel work through Ulriken as a public-private cooperation project [[E16 Arnatunnelen]] [[OPS project]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the use of the new emergency network by organisations engaged in rescue operations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e4051	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-20, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a reward scheme to ensure the school roads.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the practice of bonding and redemption of property relating to planned road projects. The case shall in particular clarify the rights of property owners and the time-limits and procedures that must be put in place to avoid undue burdens on individuals on behalf of the country when projects are being drawn out on time.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on the national Road Race Protection Plan with priority to specific projects and committed State funding.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to identify the needs and explore the possibilities of extending the opening time of the national road sections concerned and to present a case to the Stortinge in connection with the national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up its own case on both road and rail projects which, following a professional assessment, may be suitable for public-private cooperation [[OPS]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a case-by-case assessment of the following projects as OPS projects: E18 Mossevejen E6 in Akershus, Hedmark and Oppland Rv 2 Klöfta–Kongsvinger E39 Kyststamvegen, Stord–Bergen Rv 7 Sokna–Örgenvika E16 Bjørum–Skaret Rv 3 E6 Parsell Sluppen–Stavne E18 Vestfold/Telemark E18 Akershus–Svenskegren E136 Ålesund–Oppland border E18 Oslo–Aslo–Asker/Intro year Oslo west Saltenpack 2 E6 west of Alta E105 Churchenes–Russia border Rv 17 Asphaug–Namsos Rv 714 Orkanger–Hitra’ [[‘Mossewegen i tunnel’]] [[Remaining parcels]] [[Soll height]] [[Österdalen]] [[Southern Trøndelag]] [[residual sections]] [[«West Corridor»]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to present its own case with assessments of various measures to increase the use of alcohol.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up its own node plan to ensure good node solutions where several modes of transport meet.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to incorporate external quality assurance reports into the management plan for large-scale State investment projects as soon as they are available.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to suspend rail passenger transport services on several routes currently operated by the NSB’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the invitation to tender for several railway operations and maintenance tasks in order to strengthen the railway’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case concerning the modernisation of the organisation and operation of rail transport in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action to put the Kongswingerban off the competition’. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to negotiate a financing solution for the Hurtigrutemuseet at Stokmarknes in cooperation with the municipality and county council so that Hurtigrutemuseet is given its rehabilitation and extension to a fully-fledged museum of cultural history, and that the Stortinget is brought before it in its own case concerning the future of Hurtigrutemuset.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for the Stortingen for the treatment of U-864 as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of an action plan for the management of all shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case to the Stortinget for the removal of the wreck after crossing Murmansk which is located outside South Weather in the municipality of Hasvik.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the construction of alternative routes to Bergen’s internal port in the Revised National Budget 2009’.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the City Ship Tunnel project, possibly as a OPS project, and to return to the Stortinget in spring 2009 with a case relating to the City Ship Tunnel.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan with the corresponding funding for the necessary upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Depository Equipment and the Coast Guard Authority’s own vessels to strengthen coastal oil protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6107	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the necessary changes to the laws and regulations so that, if VAT is to be paid for works in the transport sector, it will only be paid when the plant is put into service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6560	You'll find an alternative between the option and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the project Rv 714 between Vikstrøm and Stråmyra is fully financed by State resources.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6677	During the debate, Per Sandberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the evaluation of the first stage of construction of the Emergency Network, to review the costs of assessing whether the costs of each establishment and municipality are in excess of the Stortingen assumptions and to come back to Stortinget with a case on how to finance the additional expenditure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6813	During the debate, 40 proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1-10, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 11-19, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 20-28, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 29-34, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 35, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 36, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 37-40, from Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party There will be a vote on the proposal No. 37-40, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6872	There will be a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government through a regulation opened in order for ships in the Norwegian International Ship Register to carry out their mission to/from installations on a Norwegian base.’ [[NIS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6887	There will be a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the lifting of the limitations on seafaring in the Norwegian International Ship Register [[NIS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6903	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 29-34, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e6951	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 20-28, from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own Annual Report on Agriculture Policy during 2009.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e7016	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 11-19, from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e7082	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-10, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e7153	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution, and we shall be voting in favour of it over all three framework areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e11683	There will be a vote against the proposal by Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent by Mr Odelstinget on 2 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Maritime Act in order to assess the need for regulatory updating.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-11.ana.ud709e11706	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
