ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e46	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Bodil Finsveen died on 14 October 2008. Finsveen was born on 23 September 1934 in Fåbberg. She was educated as housekeepers at the State School of Housekeeping in 1957 and got her first job at West Uppland Folkshøgskole at Brandbu. Since then, she was a consultant at the National Association for Nutrition and Health. She taught at Brandbu high school before returning to West Uppland High School. Finsveen joined the local politics in 1967 as a member of the Gran Municipal Government. She was a member of the Board of Directors of Oppland Sentervinner 1968-1972 and Chairman 1972-1977, a member of the Board of Directors of the Gran Senterparti 1969-1970 and Vice President 1970-1972. Finland was particularly concerned with care for the elderly and school issues. She was very committed to the offer of the smallest children and thought it was particularly important to give a good offer to the six-year-olds who were recommended to wait at school. She also considered it important to develop kindergartens and improve the outdoor environment of children in densely populated areas. Finsveen was a member of a number of public authorities such as the Gran Health Council 1968–1975, member of a sample to determine the salary position of women's girls in 1972, the works council of the Norwegian State Oil Company, 1975–1983, the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Industry Bank, 1978–1981 and the alternate member of the State Environmental Committee 1988–1992. Finsveen was elected to Stortinget in 1973 on a common list of the Centre Party/Left. She only got one period at Stortinget, when the Senter Party lost its second mandate in 1977. At Stortinget, she was, moreover, a member of the Administrative Committee together with the President. Her strong commitment was to women and the environment. After his time at Stortinget, Finsveen was employed in the Ministry of Consumer and Administrative Affairs as a consultant, bureau director and adviser in the Family and Gender Equality Department 1978-1999. We remember Bodil Finsveen for her work in Stortinget and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e65	The former temporary deputy representative of the State of Oppland, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has again taken up his seat. The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e73	I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of Odd Einar Dørum, Hans Olav Syversen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, to present proposals to ask the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the State does not invoke limitation in proceedings of former children's homes etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e78	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e92	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party and Right 10 minutes each, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e105	We're dealing with St.meld today. No 31 for 2007-2008, Quality at school. I have been so lucky to be the case rapporteur for this message, and I will be careful to thank the speakers in the other parties for constructive cooperation. Rightly, there are a number of proposals from the various parties – I will not bring them up, the respective proposers will do this seam. I want to spend my time on some of the main points of this message and point to what the committee actually agrees on. For this is because the main thrust of the message is supported by a Joint Committee. It is good, and it is important for education policy that it has a clear main direction. In recent years, significant changes have been adopted at national level and are underway to improve the quality of initial training, both the implementation of the Knowledge Lift and a number of strategic actions such as national action and strategy plans in the basic subject and the increase in the number of hours. All are justified by the need to increase the quality of training and increase the learning outcomes of individual students. The statement of state presented by the message reveals a wide gap between expectations from government and the sector’s ability to meet these expectations. In fact, studies show that the intentions and expectations of the Knowledge Promise are far too little taken into account locally in the school’s work. It is simply that local school owners have too little time to catch up with — and follow-up — the national frameworks given. That being said, it's also right to say that this has worked over a short period of time, which everyone is familiar with. The entire Committee shares the Government's view of the need for a clearer priority to be given to efforts within the comprehensive mandate given by society to initial training. Three clear objectives for the quality of initial training are then also defined and these objectives shall be consistent across all levels. In short, all pupils and apprentices have to feel mastery over school and college. The main point must be that all students, regardless of their equipment, will face challenges based on their own professional level – their own position. This is very important in order to meet school quality. I'll now put the school owner's role in focus. The entire Committee has noted that there are considerable differences between municipalities as to the extent to which the policy level is oriented and involved in quality development in initial training. The raising of knowledge demands increased participation, follow-up and competence of school owners. At the same time, many municipalities have reduced the school-based competence of the central administration and left school-based development to the individual schoolleader and to the individual school. Many of us in this committee have been local politicians in the past and are familiar with constant reorganisations in the municipalities. Gradually, many municipalities have switched to the so-called two-level model, and there may be a challenge in this context. The choice of administrative organisation is by itself not crucial to the development of the school. We can mention many examples of the two-level municipalities doing a very good job in school. At the same time, it is right to say that this organisation presents challenges to the provision of a school-based competence and functions in the municipality. It is necessary to improve management systems locally with a stronger systematisation and accountability administrative and political. To do that, we need tools. I think it is right that proposals are now being made for annual state reports to be published. Finally – in addition to what has been said – I believe that some of the most important proposals in this message are: Compulsory follow-up training for teachers, where the principal is central to both subject and subject. To improve the quality assessment system by, inter alia: introducing new national tests and mandatory screening of literacy at both first and third stages. To increase supervisory efforts to ensure consistency between supervisory needs and supervisory capacity. Training of principals who do not have such training and of new entrants. I believe it is relevant to say: St.meld. No 31 makes a difference. Follow-up provides better quality in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e153	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done on an important and comprehensive matter. The cancellation message we are handling today has clear lines back to St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, Early efforts for lifelong learning, which was an important step on the way to making the school more socially equal than it has been over time. Everyone should be able to go to a school where they have equal opportunities regardless of the social background. Then it's important that we have a school that meets all students with the same expectations of learning, and a school that facilitates all students to have mastery and learning outcomes. Norwegian school has significant challenges in this way, but it is important for me to stress that our common school has many good qualities to take care of in the future. The message we are discussing today has a clear message about the importance of efforts in the first four school years. There is also a clear message about action to improve the quality of school and the benefits of training for students. The review tone is the early effort, quality assurance and competence development of teachers and principals. All factors that help to ensure that our children develop basic skills in reading, writing, math, English and ICT are important for working and social life. The school shall also contribute to the generalisation of children, which shall provide insight into the complex of being human, the relationship between one person and the other, as well as between man and society. If we're to succeed, all students have to experience mastering and being included in a community at school. Therefore, it is vital that we have a school that takes care of the student as a whole, mastering basic skills through organized education adapted to their own level, which gets good feedback, and feels safe for bullying in school everyday life. In order to achieve these objectives, school conditions must be such that they can be achieved. We have, as said earlier, a very good school today, and through the measures outlined in the communication, it becomes even better able to meet the challenges of today's and the future knowledge society, where not only basic skills are important, but also social skills are crucial to getting a good life. Early efforts are important, and in recent years there has been a lot of attention in Norwegian school that we do not wait and see, but take action with the same student getting problems. We have also expanded the school week for the first four years from the fall of the year. It gives more time to work with subjects like reading and math. Next year there will also be a municipal obligation to reinforce the efforts of the same subjects, by increasing the teacher's density in the first four years. This will primarily benefit students who need extra follow-up, but this will also lead to better attention being paid to students who master the subjects. It's important. When the Committee was visiting the OECD in Paris, it became clear that there is significantly greater learning outcomes for teachers than if they are working on tasks on their own. That is why this strengthening is so important. The municipal obligation is also followed by money, so that municipalities can follow up on the intentions of the communication of higher teacher density in the first four years of the Norwegian and math subjects. I am sure that over time we will see the results of the efforts that are now being made. The teacher is the main input to the learning outcomes of the students. It is therefore gratifying that we now have a system of continuing training for teachers. There is also a clearer division of responsibilities between the State and the municipalities as to who is responsible for what. The State takes a clearer responsibility for continuing education and facilitates the provision of good and relevant services at universities and higher education institutions. Yesterday I was in a meeting with NTNU, who had a happy message to join in that way. They are prepared to provide a good continuing training offer, while the institution was able to report a very good search and a high level of quality from secondary school to the students who are now applying for the five-year teacher training they are offering. It is very new and shows that the applicants are coming, whether the offer is professionally good. We must therefore be careful with black paint for the Norwegian school, so that we do not help students to choose a great profession. Such a black paint seems to me to have contributed parts of the opposition during this period. All the teachers I meet also say that they are satisfied that there is now a requirement for professional immersion in the subjects in which they teach, but that it is a prerequisite for such a requirement that there are also good opportunities for further training. This applies to teachers who teach in all disciplines. The last time I got clear feedback from teachers, it was from teachers in the arts, who were afraid that the requirements for immersion would only apply in the basic subjects and not in their subject. It tells me that the teachers themselves are going to take responsibility – the responsibility they have to take to ensure that there is a good and systematic provision of further training that is widely embraced. Furthermore, there is good feedback on the teaching of the principal. At all, there are many positive feedback from the news we are handling today. Another theme to which the message focuses is monitoring and follow-up. I am pleased that a system of screening tests and extended use of national samples is now in place. The working party has been for national tests all the time, but has underlined the importance of having national tests that are objectively professional. We were primarily to introduce a new national test at the tenth grade of high school, but are pleased with what has been announced. We don't want to introduce more tests in this round, but we want the system we're now getting to develop and the quality to be ensured before we expand the use of the national samples. It would have been desirable from my side that these samples had been given a different type of media review than what they are doing today. These tests should, of course, be a good tool for schools, students, parents and school owners in their efforts to improve school quality, not act as a ranking system between schools. It is also gratifying that there is now a broad disintegration of the national samples, as opposed to what we experienced during the right-wing government in the last period. I am also pleased — in addition to the national tests — with the increased focus on school supervision. Strengthening the supervisory function is absolutely necessary. However, I fully agree that supervision should not only point out deviations but also provide guidance, so that supervision is felt meaningfully in order to develop quality in school. Another important contribution to increasing awareness of school quality is the report that all school owners need to produce annually to make the quality of each school visible. I think that will give the school owners, in particular, an opportunity to discuss as well as to think through how, through political decisions, they can help to strengthen the school of the municipality where they are responsible. This work will be exciting to follow. The message we have before us today is primarily about the first four years of school. However, the Committee has also focused on youth and the specific challenges that exist there. These are crucial years for our young people, and I am concerned with both increased learning outcomes and better counselling services at high school. In the financial position, which came yesterday, the career centres, which are established, or are in the process of being established in all the counties, were reinforced by 17 million. kr. This strengthening will enable career centres to contribute more to strengthening the counselling service at secondary schools. We know that competence in this area needs to be developed, and through this strengthening we are contributing to it. I fully support the work that is now being done to seal the holes in the Knowledge Lift. In particular, it is important that guidance curricula are now drawn up. It is very resource-intensive to develop the curricula locally. Not least, there is a high level of competence required of those involved in the work. This has led to different quality of the curricula that exist around. The guidance curricula, together with good screening tests, national tests, improved oversight and quality reporting procedures at school, will contribute to better national school governance. Although I am too much of municipal freedom, I think that the framework we now get around the schools will help to increase the quality of school and thus the learning outcomes for the students. It makes us better equipped to meet the demands of the future on skills and competences – demands we may not see today, but we can understand through the challenges we see, for example. through the financial crisis we are now facing. It is through knowledge and competence that we need to build the welfare society of the future – a society that is good for everyone, regardless of social status or where we live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e189	Let me first thank the President-in-Office for a good piece of work. As the rapporteur said in his statement, there is a lot in this message we agree on, but the quality message has a number of weaknesses. Firstly, the absence of concrete measures is a challenge. A powerful government that takes the quality challenge in school seriously would promote a proposition with concrete proposals for action to improve school quality. However, the notification is not without lighting points. The first and perhaps most pleasant point of view is that the Minister of Knowledge has seriously set aside the school policy of the Socialist Left Party and will now increase the focus on requirements for the student, requirements for the teacher, national tests and follow-up of knowledge objectives in the Knowledge Promise. That's good. The Progress Party believes it is important to act quickly to improve the quality of training. In the Communication, the Government again announces that it will return to the Stortinget with proposals for changes in general teacher training. It has been more than two years since NOCUT slowed down general teacher training and its quality. While the government is still invoking its good ideas, the Progress Party, together with the Left, has repeatedly suggested making this education five years old, with professional immersion as a requirement. Government parties have voted against such reform of general teacher training and claim that time can still be devoted to finding solutions. Time costs, and in this case it can cost a lot for those who are both in teacher training and in training today. Today, when government parties re-use the opportunity to vote against proposals to give teachers the right and duty to improve their skills, the signals to increase the focus on the quality of training are also very poor. If one believes that the teacher is one of the most important resources to ensure quality in school, it seems very strange that the Government cannot participate in the proposal of the Progress Party and the Left today. Then it is gratifying that the Government warns that it finally sees that the state also has a certain responsibility for initial training and will be clearer in the direction of governance of education policy rather than making what the Council of State has become known to do, namely to shift responsibility to county municipalities and municipalities. The propulsion party has called for this for a long time, but it remains to be seen, of course, how the device of these steering signals becomes, before the flag can be lifted. During the course of the year, the Progress Party has proposed to earmark an additional 700 million. kr for initial training. There is very little to suggest that the government will be involved in that type of control signals anyway. Maybe it's with the government's praiseworthy mention of itself and its own visions this time as well. In order to ensure the quality of training, it is necessary to ensure systems that make individual students feel that one is being taken seriously. The Progress Party therefore proposes to establish a school representative to be at the student’s side in cases where students’ rights are not adequately respected. Such a scheme, or similar scheme, has been implemented in a number of counties with good results. A national school ombudsman system will help to strengthen pupils when they point to improvement potentials at their own schools, both professionally, at management level and socially. A maintenance kit run in initial training of over SEK 66 billion also affects the quality of the training. The absence of a harmful indoor environment should be a matter of course. The Progress Party is concerned that the Government does not take these challenges seriously, and they are dedicated little space in this message. Last year, the Progress Party proposed that the interest-rate compensation scheme should not be removed. The government laughed back and told me they had a majority and removed it anyway. This year, the scheme is properly reintroduced into the budget, and that is good, but it is still too poor to solve the tasks of reducing maintenance and securing a learning environment for students within the framework of the law. The interest-rate compensation scheme has the weakness that it requires municipalities to actually be able to borrow in order to get something back for the scheme. And with today's uncertain situation in Kommune-Norway, a lot of people seem to agree to take up further loans. Therefore, the Progress Party is now proposing, in the context of the State budget, to give DKK 3 billion to municipalities in order to reduce the maintenance run on construction. It is tempting to say that everything is related to everything. In this case, we propose that at least one should be given a proper overview of the status of the maintenance seat with action plans to correct the illegalities, because that is what this is about. It seems that for some strange reason the Progress Party is standing alone on this proposal. That's weird. Quality is about a lot more than what the government is basing on in this matter. The only way to improve the quality of Norwegian school is to vent into government quarters when voters have said their words in 2009. There is a need for new giving, action, visions, demands and renewal – simply the Advance Party is needed!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e215	Has the representative, Anders Anundsen, intended to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e218	I'd like to do that, President! I will address those proposals where the Progress Party stands alone or is with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e223	Then the representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e226	That's good, because otherwise I would have taken up the suggestions we're dealing with. Quality in school is something that the Right has had as a taboo for a long time. The school budget in Norway had a whole new content after the government of Bondevik II submitted St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, and the Knowledge Promise were adopted. Many challenges were identified, and solutions were found. There is now a broad acceptance for what a breach this was with a school policy that had been taking place since the 1970s. No one dares no longer say that knowledge and competence requirements are completely central, and that it must be measured to what extent the school succeeds in its mission. Today's big news, quality at school, gives us little news in view of the challenges we know we have in school. Early work and away with the waiting-and-see attitude in school is a broad consensus. The rapporteur has probably had a fairly good job like this. There are also some obvious shortcomings in the message. The communication does not address the challenges of high school, and it does not address as key challenges as the fact that boys and girls have significantly different learning outcomes in school. Rather, the grips taken are a natural consequence and follow-up of the challenges that Culture for Learning revealed. In the Right and in the Opposition, we find it a pity that many of our proposals to improve school in this period have had to be voted down in Stortinget before they appear in this big message. It has delayed the follow-up and the pressure in the implementation of the Knowledge promise and shows that it is critical that we have SV in the Ministry of Knowledge. However, many suggest that the Government, with the Swedish Ministry of Knowledge SV, still does not fully understand what is going on in order for Norwegian school to rise. It is the municipalities and county councils that are school owners in Norway. I focus on that, like the rapporteur. I dare say that any school council is powerless to face the challenges of school if one is unable to stimulate them to become active owners of the school. Governments have in part what I would call a control angle to this question. In addition, some minimum standards shall be established, including: with regard to reporting, which we agree with. Control and systematic analysis of results on the part of school owners is important. There are many school owners who have a long way to go. But it has to be based on an understanding of how the analyses are to be used to improve the school; state control has usually proved to be a poor tool. State control will always be on the backlog of the problems. The municipalities themselves must be concerned that they are responsible for the results at school, and the notification should address issues such as ‘best practice’ at school and how good experience should flow to the rest of School Norway. A good local school debate starts with good, insightful and broad analysis of the challenges in school. Without knowledge of school, you don't want to know what to do with school. There the government still appears as if it is okay that the students go to a school that is poor, as long as no one knows about it, and that the problem occurs when the public becomes aware that the school should be better. The government fears openness more than it fears a local school debate based on rumors and loose beliefs. It's incomprehensible that you don't see how important it is to be transparent about the results. Transparency is the first prerequisite for good school information, and transparency will ensure that each individual chooses gets localised by the school. It also ensures that the school has a central place in local democracy and stimulates local ownership of the school. The teacher is the most important individual factor in the school. It's between the teacher and the student the knowledge transfer takes place, but there also has to be an environment around the teacher that gives inspiration. It's a school principal's responsibility. In the Right we are happy to record that many of our proposals for school management in Document No. 8:100 for 2006–2007 has been followed up, but we believe that compulsory schoolleader education should be required. All of this just shows that there are a lot of terms that have to work well to get results in school. The chain from the department down until the student is long. Requirements must be imposed and the division of responsibilities between the different levels must be clear. There, the Government and SV reveal that they still have a long way to go in their maturation process. I am addressing the proposal that the right hand side is with the left hand side of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e247	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e251	Thank you to the President-in-Office! If there is something that parents and teachers want, it is that the children and the students will succeed in school – be seen, learn, thrive and experience mastery. Is there something students dream about, it's learning, being included, feeling seen and being useful. We have to make sure that we have a school where all the students experience mastering, well-being and learning. This is the aim of today’s news of cancellation. No one is as open to learning as little children. They enjoy numbers, they have sense of space, but too often this joy of learning disappears during the school run. For many students, high school does not complete in five years. It is the professions that have the greatest disqualification. This is one of the greatest societal problems we have. If it had been the case that the students who quit and did not complete secondary education had something meaningful to do, it would not have been a problem. But unfortunately, it's not like that. The dropout that we see in high school often starts a lot earlier. We have a good starting point for improving the quality of school through the general public school, where all children go together. International surveys show that a wide-ranging school is the best starting point for raising all students, not for differentiation by level or by school. We know that our students score very high internationally – we are at the top – in terms of understanding democracy, in terms of standing in front of a class, in terms of working together, and in terms of being competent in English. There are important skills to cope with today's society. But too many students go out of school without being able to write, read and have a good sense of numbers, and there are social inequalities that are the factor that strongly affect this. Ensuring a good public common school where all children experience mastering, challenges, learning and well-being has been the SV’s political goal for a long time. Quality in school, which we are discussing today, is a good response to many of these challenges. The communication is an overall strategy for strengthening quality work in initial training, where early efforts, enhanced teacher competence, providing teachers with the tools they need to be good teachers, and a close follow-up of the quality of school by school owners is the main approach. I don't have time to go into all the actions that are being promoted, because it's a broad, complex message. This communication has three clear objectives for the quality of initial training, which the case-rapporteur had in mind. The first is that all students leaving primary school will master basic skills, the second that all students who are able to do so will complete secondary education, and the third that all pupils and apprentices will be included and mastered. I want to commend the teachers that we have at school today, they're doing a good job. They're on, they're conscious, and they're capable. Being a teacher is one of the most demanding professions we have – they have to be up-to-date, they have to be prepared, they have to be able to do their job, they have to be able to attend and see the student all the time. And the government gives the good answers in this big message. The main focus of the message is early intervention, providing children with help when they need it, at the earliest possible time in school. I want to highlight some measures here. The government inserts several teachers into 1–4. class step. In the budget, there are about 2,000 more teachers at the lowest levels of the class. The government has increased the number of hours between 1 and 4. class steps of five additional hours to be used to improve student literacy and numerical understanding. More physical activity has also been put into youth. Monitoring samples of 1 to 3 are introduced. steps that will help teachers in their assessment of what students can and cannot do. National tests shall not be used to rank schools but to enhance the quality of schools. There's no point in comparing schools. In addition, guidance corps are provided for those in need of help and additional measures for those in the lowest-ranking municipalities. We put into practice the teacher's plans by providing national guidance. School-home cooperation is a focus of this big message. Compulsory, continuous and continuous training for teachers and principals is an important step this government is taking, because it is important that they have the necessary skills. At the same time, we also have a strong focus on the municipalities as school owners, because being a school owner is demanding and complicated. They need help, and they need good action, to which this message is a very good response. I am glad that this government prioritises school and not tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e281	This message needs to be considered as a collection message. Here we meet again many of the opposition's proposals, which have now changed their status from being rejected and voted down to being promoted by the Government itself. It is a long way to go for good action that should have been taken a long time ago. The government should take a more listening and responsive attitude to the opposition’s and various en route proposals. What is quality? A national conference in Kristiansand had three key concepts as the title: sustainability, apprenticeship and benevolence. The inspiration for these three expressions is, among other things, taken from UNESCO’s four learning pillars: ‘Learning to know’, ‘learning to do’, ‘learning to live together’ and ‘learning to be’. In a knowledge-driven society, it is important to be aware of the danger of dwindling the value of the last two columns. Quality in school is not measured solely from national samples. The government has chosen to focus on the need for early action, and I do not disagree with that. But at the same time, I note that the government forgets high school. However, what the Government proposes is to hold pupils at the youth level accountable by applying the absence of the final diploma. This shows that you have not understood the problem. You can't solve the problems in high school by asking students to step up. Despite strong calls from the Christian People's Party, this government has chosen not to address the major challenges of high school. Education is for theorizing; there are major challenges associated with trouble, and many teachers are afraid to work at this stage. There's reason to believe that this is also propagating and contributing to the dramatic high dropout we have in high school. Young school must be a master's arena for children and young people. When students are not attached to the theoretical, they must be offered a more practical school day. I have noticed that the government parties in the vote respond to the challenge of the Christian People's Party. Not unexpectedly we hear the same melody that we have heard in all things: there is a big message coming. I wish the government had had a slightly more offensive attitude. How many proposals for proper school policy decisions have we actually received? The government announced a new course also in this year's census. That's probably the biggest self-recognition the government has made: after three years with the red-green parts we need a new course. But in school policy, we've seen little about it. More knowledge, more focus on education, better quality and more teachers are what we need. Instead, it seems that several hours is this government's response to most of the school's challenges. I think we need more teachers, not more hours. The key to a better school is the teachers. Without more and more skilled teachers, we can't create a school of knowledge and well-being. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for the introduction of sample testing in youth subjects and skills and the introduction of national examinations in reading and billing at 9th stage. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out that several hearing bodies are warned of the potential impact of an ever-increasing testing regime on practical training. We can't have a school where you just increase on tests. We need other ways to focus on learning. Finally, a little bit about home-school cooperation: we support the proposal to oblige municipalities and county municipalities to produce annual status reports, but it would have been a simple move to include an assessment of home-school cooperation in such a state report. I wish the majority were in favour of that. This would have shown that they took the home-school collaboration seriously. Research shows that all parents, regardless of background and education, can contribute positively to children’s motivation and learning outcomes. Competence in home-school cooperation must therefore be strengthened in teacher training. The attitudes of teachers, the ability to provide pupils with appropriate training and skills to meet parents with different backgrounds are essential to equalising social differences. It is essential that teachers meet parents in such a way that they have faith in their own opportunities and prerequisites to support their children in their schooling. Through clear expectations for cooperation, emphasising that all parents are resources for their children, there will be a better basis for good dialogue and constructive cooperation. I'm glad that teachers all over the country think this is important, although the government only has a party attitude to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e302	Some school researchers have sometimes said that school research is not always used in school. I would say as a representative of the Left that there is not always school research being used in the Government. In fact, the current government has made sure that we have received a very interesting research case – under the auspices of NTNU, who has done the job – which tells us that there is a very clear link between the general level of competence of the teachers at a school and what you get from the school for all students. When you have such a unique research, and when you know what a dramatic difference there is in competence between all teachers in the county of Norway – like Oslo, Akershus and Sør-Trøndelag with a very high level of competence, counties like Nordland and Telemark, to name a few, with low competence – it is quite incredible that the government parties can not vote today for proposals that have the ambition to enhance their professional competence in all disciplines. Once again, the Left is on a proposal, this time together with the Advance Party, that professional requirements have to be defined in order to teach all students in all disciplines. It is therefore downgraded and, most of the time, it is downgraded by the fact that Norway is a pig-headed country, where many are unskilled. It's a completely unbelievable reasoning. Of course, there are many unskilled people, but if you have ambitions, you lift people up. It is the long line in Norwegian school history that you promise that you have ambitions. It's not an unreasonable thing to lift. This proposal, together with the Progress Party, is promoting the Left again, and it is being downgraded. This means that the majority of politicians do not take seriously the insight they have gained through research into what actually gives basic quality in school. And at the same time, once again, in a situation where everyone is concerned that we have good teachers, you don't vote because I don't know which time down suggestions to make obliging recruitment plans for teachers in both primary and secondary schools. And of course, you vote to have ambitions for systematic further education for all teachers in all disciplines. Happily, today all four opposition parties stand together on it. The point of saying this is that if you draw school policy into long lines, I dare say the following: From the Bondevik II government, starting with the introduction of knowledge and the promise of knowledge, we've got the happy development that SV has left the 2005 party programme, where you don't like grades, and where you don't like national tests, and now has a programme that's beginning to approach the starting point of the Bondevik II government's knowledge leap. From the Left and the Right began to cooperate with the Christian People's Party on the school in Oslo, one has moved from some very poor results to good results, in a city that has moved from 27 p.m. in the same period. to 37 pst. language minorities. But then you don't take the consequences of that, because the lesson from all of these promises, which is actually driving social inclusion, is to have learning goals on behalf of all of the students, have learning pressures, have teachers who are good at measuring what they're learning away, and who can follow up. The key to it again is to set clear goals in order to be able to teach in all disciplines – including a proposal here today – it is to recruit good teachers, and it is to provide systematic further training to all teachers in all disciplines, not just to some teachers in some disciplines, which is now the government line. And then, of course, it's doing what the Right and the Left stand together to introduce a compulsory schoolleader education, not just bet on it, but say that this is absolutely necessary to get a result. And I want to add: along with having competent management at the level of the municipalities, regardless of how the municipalities have organized themselves, these are important prerequisites for moving on. Fortunately, the entire Committee agrees on the proposal to look at the issue of school contribution indicators, thus gaining even more insight into what the Government is to appreciate for it to start, namely the research that shows that high levels of competence among teachers generally produce good results at school level. But what remains then, that's when it's going to be power and pressure by implementing what slowly says in place. If there is to be any joy in being an opposition policy during this period, it is to see that tough and systematic pressure produces results. It's not always it comes with happy calls, but it comes as a result of pressure. The good side of Norwegian policy sometimes is that we are so close to each other that the common sense cannot be controlled, it must simply state in. The Council of State has come to the point that he can talk nice about Oslo school even though the Right is sitting there, but I have always tried to say that the Left is also sitting there – and some others too. Can't you then enjoy what results! And to comfort the Council of State – I'm sure he can – we also know that a state like Sogn and Fjordane has achieved good results because you work tough, systematic and real along many of the lines that I have now talked about, so there are different paths to the goal. But there will be no school without having professional ambitions in all subjects, strengthening the teachers and being able to recruit teachers. So once again, we're going to be shocked, but we're never going to give up. I'm going to stick to Anundsen's expression. The left's on! It's good!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e317	The core of this big message is that we are facing a serious problem in the knowledge society, namely that Norwegian children who grow up today do not learn enough, do not complete advanced education to a large extent, and that too many people do not experience inclusion and mastering of school life. We know that it's a serious problem for many individuals, that it's a big social problem, because we need everyone's strength to use, and of course it's a big social problem, because it's not random who's struggling with basic knowledge, and who's going to experience getting out of continuing school. This is a message with a very close package of measures, many of them in the 2009 budget, others are now being heard as legislative proposals, and many are now working on the follow-up. But I think you might say that if you want to draw three points in particular, there is, first of all, a much higher emphasis on early effort. We identified the major social differences and the lack of early intervention in the Norwegian school in St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, which we presented a few years ago. Now we are presenting comprehensive measures on competences, screening tests, several teachers and other educators to follow-up and concreteise the early school effort, as well as the early childhood evolution that we are carrying out during this period, which, of course, also has a decisive impact on an early effort. Then it's competence. We know that nothing means more to what students learn from school and how they do it than to the teachers. This is why we are making a historic decision, a historical act in the message, simply by introducing a permanent system of further training of Norwegian teachers, which will provide room for 2 000 to 2 500 teachers with the budget level we are now signalling to be able to receive further education every year. It's not really money, but the capacity and the incubators that are supposed to be the biggest constraint in the area in the years to come. We also introduce a schoolteacher education. Then we announce a clearer governance at all levels. We announce a clearer national management of the school. We announce that municipalities and county councils must take a clearer grip on the management of their schools, and we announce that the individual schools, among others. through schoolleader training, must take clearer control of their school. It is a great pleasure for me to see that there is so much agreement on so many important actions that are now being implemented and will be implemented, and that the opposition is essentially joining in on all the proposals in the message. And to the extent that one should comment on it: when it comes to the red-green policy proposed by the Government, the opposition at some important point announces that they will have more of the red-green policy and will go further in that direction. For example, they will not only have a schoolteacher’s education; it should be compulsory. And yes, we should evaluate that after a while. They're notifying you that the current training effort will have even more of it. And yes, we might have even more of it, but this is an important historical elevator in the first place. And that's the same thing in some other areas. The other thing I think there is a reason to point out is that, since there is so much agreement here in the Chamber that some proposals are good proposals, such as: The proposal for teacher training, one might have expected the tone of roughness to be greater than the tone of spinning, as we can see in the setting and hear from the speaker here. One can then draw out the representative Dørum as a good example in this way. For both SV and Left, there have been decades of efforts to get a system of further education for teachers. The left has a seat for seven years in government. Was it the only year of competence or the only day of competence in those years? The answer to that is no. No permanent system of further training was found. I can understand that one of them will be rotated because it is SV who is doing this. What we can learn from it is at least that when the role distribution is so that the Left's in government and the SV pushes on, nothing happens. When SV sits in government and left presses, it happens very much. In this sense, there is a better role distribution. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work. It is very good that there is broad support for the red-green policy from the whole Biggest, although we still have some challenges when it comes to some issues, including: when we look at the budget of some of the opposition party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e337	I'm not going to participate in the competition about who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's been the one. I am pleased that the Council of State has received a government that has listened to good suggestions from the opposition, even though it has taken a long time. I also think the Council of State very often says that the teacher is one of the most important factors, if not the most important factor, in order to ensure quality in training. In the message, one, as the Council of State correctly says, goes a little bit of a step in the direction that teachers can get better quality. Nevertheless, the fact remains that this government has been opposed to five-year-old teacher training, they are opposed to a recruitment plan for teachers, they are opposed to an obliging continuing education plan, and they are opposed to specific professional requirements for teachers who are to teach at school. Then I simply wonder if the Council of State can not soon acknowledge that he is not taking this problem sufficiently seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e346	More errors could not be selected for the representative. Because it's something that we've been working on in the last few years, that's putting the teacher on the agenda and doing concrete improvements for the teachers, because they're the most important thing for what students learn. In the local economy, there is now $1 billion for several teachers, as part of the early effort effort. We have for the first time introduced skills requirements to teach Norwegian, mathematical and English at the youth level. We have a bunch of recruitment measures in the budget. For the first time, we have a systematic further training programme, as well as significant further training in the budget for the next year, and many other important measures for teachers. Where the previous government, with which the representative Anundsen's party supported and cooperated in the budgets, was largely out of the question with the teachers and cutbacks, we have re-emphasized and invested in the teachers during this period, because there is a need for a status lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e351	More of the red-green policy, said the Council of State, but it is the SV that is completely across its own programme. These are, of course, proposals that the opposition has made in the past and that have been voted down. It's on the verge of saying that this is more of the red-green policy. What surprises me is that I think SV is actually on the move to discover what ownership means, ownership on the municipal side. Now we see that the press, as far as the representative Kristoffersen was concerned, focuses on the fact that the results are used for ranking. I think that's going to be a lot of a secret to the results. The most exciting media knows, is when things are kept secret. Then you have to go in and figure out what's said. But you don't go into what's meant by this, and that's analysing the results to create a better school. There are many municipalities that have a lot to do. How will the Council of State arrive at an active local school ownership as long as the results are kept secret?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e360	Let me first say that this is safe and good red-green policy and SV policy. A number of suggestions here have been in SV's program for a very long time, for example. The idea that little kids have to get closer follow-up, i.e. early effort, which is a major commodity, is not to talk about the further education for teachers that we are now introducing. This is a very central question for SV, for which we are very happy to have had an impact. There's openness about the test results today, and there's nothing that keeps away from publicity. On the contrary, we now know that they are used in schools and municipalities throughout the country. We still believe that from the standpoint of the state, we must take a clearer lead with it. Therefore, there is a requirement for municipalities to follow up the results, and therefore there is a guidance corps that will significantly increase the number of municipalities that are struggling with the follow-up, and therefore there is also an offer of stand-by analysis. All of these are measures aimed at those municipalities that are struggling on their own to obtain the results. Fortunately, many people are doing it actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e367	I understand that the council wants praise from the opposition, but he will probably get it off with his own. The need to be recognised and seen is strong in many, and it is also strong in 1.2 million. parents with children in Norwegian school. We have treated St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007. It showed a strong link between home and child education. It thus gave strong leadership that the home needs to be more involved in how we put up learning in the Norwegian school. For this reason, my question is simple: will the Council of State consider that home-school cooperation is integrated into teacher education, where this is not a topic at all today, and how to do it in relation to home-school cooperation, becomes part of the state report that now has to be reported by municipalities and county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e374	Parents' role in relation to school is extremely important. We know that. So far into the school run, we know it's a very big part. It is very important how parents follow up their own kids, for example. for the read results you can see that there is a very clear context. And fortunately, most parents are willing to go through fire and water for their own kids, even when it comes to scourging. But not everyone has the travel tools or the possibilities. Therefore, it is important to strengthen that cooperation, that the school attracts parents and is busy following parents. So I can say that home-school collaboration will of course be part of what we want to talk about and deal with the work on the new teacher education, because it is natural that the teachers should know about it. When it comes to the core of the quality reports, we see here the proposal when it comes to what we're going to address there, but it's not an obstacle to us, for example. can address it to a greater extent in the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e382	Twisted? No, there's great joy over one who turns around in time rather than never doing it. The left is very happy that we have set the Swedish Government's Solhjell free from SV's clumsy program, SV that doesn't like exams, grades and national tests. It's a liberation movement that we're proud to have been on, and we're very happy that we have a government council that's shaken away from these obscene reformed educational embraces, that actually puts knowledge in the center, and that honors teachers with a love pressure that warms my heart. But now the Council of State is going to be allowed to take out its legation further, if he wants to: when are we going to have the ambitions that show respect for all students and for all teachers, and that leads to the government and the government being bold in setting professional requirements, qualifications, for all teachers to teach in all disciplines? When are we going to see such ambitions? When is school going to follow the mentality that led to a female handballag that won the Olympic gold because you dared to have ambitions? When will the Council of State release itself and define such ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e389	I'm free! That's why, fortunately, our message is full of good SV policy and red-green policy. On the other hand, sometimes the Left Party, who has in its programme for this period that it is for a school meal but proposes in its budget to cut fruit and vegetables in the youth sphere. It's incomprehensible to me. If necessary, because one is too food, only it's not fruit and green. So I think the Left Party also has a job to do when it comes to life and learning. We have for the first time introduced requirements in the youth school for subjects of mathematics, English and Norwegian. I think I can say that, at least for my part, it's the beginning of a thought that I see here in the setting that there is a wide deal about, that one has to think of being a teacher as a mixture of communication and expertise, and that we have to make demands for the teachers. I have previously informed that it is natural to go ahead and look at other subjects and other steps, and we will come back to that. It is closely related to the teacher training itself, so it will be viewed in conjunction with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e398	Parties to the Government generally pay homage to general public schools. At the same time, we know that half of Norwegian classrooms do not comply with the environmental regulations. The Council of State did not at all concern it in its submission. The government has removed the interest compensation scheme, but has reintroduced it as an impression from the opposition. We know that there are some municipalities that cannot avail themselves of this scheme, because they do not have the ability to serve more debt. At today's pace it will take over 80 years to comply with the environmental regulations in Norwegian classrooms. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete measures does the Government have to give all Norwegian students a good learning environment in our lifetime?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e407	There are a number of measures now in place, and most importantly, the representative refers to himself, that is the interest-rate compensation scheme. The collection is the sum of 15 billion dollars. It's the same frame that the previous system had, and we know that the system helped to clean up or reconstruct over 1,100 schools all around Norway. So I think we have to be able to say that at least there is a significant potential for many schools to be renovated or built on the basis of it. But the learning environment is, of course, much wider and is about more than just barley. That's why we're also busy, along with the health authorities, following up the individual school and the requirements there. It is the municipalities and county councils, those who own the schools, who have a primary responsibility, and we therefore need to supervise and monitor closely how the requirements are implemented. In addition, we have other learning environment measures, e.g.: an IS agreement, an agreement on the inclusive school environment, as we announce in the message, which is about other aspects of the learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e417	The message we are handling here today is called ‘Quality in School’. So what's quality? What are we really talking about? Is it good quality, or is it bad quality? Do we want to raise the quality, or do we want to lower it? When the word quality is used synonymously with good quality, what is bad quality? In the technical context, we like to use the term "right" quality, and it tells us that what has been delivered is in accordance with the user's expectations. The correct definition according to ISO 9000 is: ‘The integrity of the characteristics of an entity and relating to its ability to satisfy stated and implied needs.’» I think, unfortunately, it's a long time before an ISO certification of Norwegian school is carried out. However, I can assure you that the work done in advance of such certification, with documentation and preparation of procedures and not least awareness of the employees, is invaluable in relation to quality. The size shall now relate to a message from the Government. I had expected something quite different. Once, for the first time in a long time, we have a majority government, which has the power to implement what it wants, one would believe that proposals for action would come as pearls on a string and be put into effect continuously. With the exception of the government's attack on the boarding schools, we have seen little more than a continuation of the promise of knowledge. It is also indicative of this Government that the very element of competition is completely excluded from this quality notification. Competition between schools, be it public or private, together with a free choice of pupils and supervisors would, in the opinion of the Progress Party, have clearly been a quality promotion, but it does not say anything about it. It's very good in Norwegian school. We have all agreed on that for many years. Yeah, actually, we thought for a while that we almost had the best school in the world. But then the PISA and PIRLS studies and national samples came and took away many illusions. Unfortunately, we see that a number of students today do not get what the learning outcomes you should expect, and we see that what we get again, unfortunately, is out of proportion to the resources that society spends in school. When we discover such a quality defect, I'm used to seeing it as a potential for improvement. But it may have happened that in my work I have gone through the raising of awareness in relation to quality assurance, and that I have a positive relationship with the fact that deviation reporting is part of quality improvement and not a black player game. I have previously spoken from this pulpit that we here need a similar attitude change for teachers and school owners, but I was told from the government parties that it was bullying the teachers. I just participated in a debate on art at the school where I pointed out that it was important to see it in relation to the fact that we did not score well on international and national tests. I was then told by the government's representative that the Progress Party was in charge of a test tyranny. With such a lack of understanding of the tools that are needed to improve quality, I do not see the possibility of achieving the necessary improvement we need in Norwegian school. Those who blindly and unreservedly pay homage to the public common school take the time to reflect on what we offer to Norwegian school students, or is it the most important thing to push forward a monopolistic state? Due to the inter-government blackmail game and a government accounting regime that does not reflect depreciation and write-down of public investment, we have seen, over a number of years, different political majority who have pushed maintenance of educational buildings, health institutions and infrastructure ahead. The Progress Party promoted in the debate on the throne a proposal to get an overview of the public maintenance service run together with measures to get up to date, but it only received the votes of the Progress Party and the Right. Is the reason that the other parties don't want to see the truth in their eyes? Today we have a maintenance seat in Norwegian school of between 60 and 70 billion kroner, and half of Norwegian classrooms, as I said, do not comply with the environmental regulations. Is there really anyone who thinks we can make significant improvements in quality when the working environment of teachers and students is so bad? The progress party has shown a willingness to do something that monks in this area, but we are unfortunately standing alone. The opposition has promoted a number of proposals on school management, teacher training, measures to combat riots and unrest, etc. – all in order to improve the quality of school. The proposals have been put to the vote. In today's proceedings, we will again consider a number of good proposals from the opposition, but they will be defeated by an alternate majority. I would like to point out proposal No. 8, which deals with training in cooperation between school and home, becoming an integral part of teacher training. For many teachers today, getting the good dialogue with the home is a big challenge. Let me do one group. Parents with a migrant background need information about the challenges children and young people face in Norwegian society. Parents are the most important role models in children’s lives, but many parents have little knowledge of the school system in Norway and some have no schooling from their home country. Although they get 250 hours of Norwegian and 50 hours of community knowledge, it's too little to understand the Norwegian system. At the same time, young people learn quickly and know a lot about the system. This difference in knowledge contributes to undermining the traditional parental authority, and many parents feel that they are losing control. This is a matter on which the teacher must have knowledge and be able to deal, and therefore we believe that it is important that this be part of the teacher's training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e449	Now I'm going to pay tribute to the high school. Our school is very good. It's an important starting point when we're going to discuss how it's going to get even better. Norwegian school is not a nursery school, nor is it a boarding school, as someone claims. It is characteristic that seems a little motivating to all the teachers and other employees who make a tremendous effort for children and young people in school. It must never be a problem that many students in the Norwegian school thrive. That's a good starting point for learning. Traditionally, the political debate has been untapped in this way. The mantra of the right has been that the school should be a place to learn. For us in the Workers' Party, school as a social community arena is a necessary prerequisite for good learning. We are proud that the Norwegian school is well advanced in the creativity, cooperation and understanding of democracy of students. These are important characteristics that a modern welfare society needs in the future. We also record that these characteristics are largely sought by the business community. The future school needs to continue to focus on developing students’ social skills and reflectivity. I talked to a Finn a few days ago. He told me some wise words in this way: Norwegian school has many qualities, not least that you have understood that the students are social individuals, and not just competitive people. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to achieve quality in school that we build on the Norwegian Joint School. We have always been open to educational and religious alternatives. We see that the Left, Right and Advance Party want it to be free again for commercial private actors to set up schools in Norway. We fear that such liberalisation will go beyond the public common school, as we do, for example. now see in Sweden. We say no to that. Our alternative is rather to bet on public high school. Together with students, parents, teachers, other employees at school, school leaders and school owners, we're going to do even better in the primary school. We're doing a great job. Keywords in this regard are the Knowledge promise and early efforts, which are now being followed up with the quality message that we are discussing here today. We continue to look at how a person can improve his vocational training, and not least he is working on a new teacher training course. We will continually seek solutions that aim to ensure that everyone masters basic skills that enable them to participate in further education and working life, not least experience mastering through well-being, and that each student experiences a school that is adapted to their abilities and interests. We're doing a great job, but together with everyone involved in the school, we have to focus on this continuously. As politicians, we have to recognise that increasing quality is not something that can only be adopted, but it has to come from below. In the Workers' Party, we are sure that the steps we are now taking, and are going to take, will help motivate everyone involved in Norwegian school to work together for an additional quality improvement in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e462	Sometimes it can be hard to define what quality is. Some have said that it is the most complex, multidimensional concept of activity that has ever been reduced to eight letters. Others say that quality recognizes you when you see it. Others again say that quality is the ability to meet requirements, there is a lack of deviation, or there is the ability to make good use of resources, improve results and adapt to new conditions. I am very pleased that the school discussion we have in 2008 is primarily about quality and content. But it's not obvious. It has come about that, over many years now, we have been focusing on what is most important in school: content and learning. When the council says we discovered the great social differences when we started working with St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, I have to correct the Council of State and say that it was an essential basis for the promise of knowledge. It was precisely when we discovered that the Norwegian school did not smooth out, but rather reinforced and continued differences between students due to different social backgrounds. The representative Freddy de Ruiter says that the right-hand side has had the mantra that the school should be a place for learning. Yes, and I'm very proud of that. The school shall be a place of learning. What ends briefly in the contributions of the representative de Ruiter is that he believes there is a contrast between learning and community. It's not that there's less learning because we're also focusing on community. But for the Right and for the other parties here in the Chamber, it hasn't been enough that the students learn to develop good cooperation skills, that they learn good democracy, as long as 20 pst. students leave school without being able to read and write properly. That's the biggest challenge in school. Absence in secondary education has been a topic that many have started to discuss very seriously. It's quite obvious that we know more about the reasons now than we did a while ago. We know that lack of basic skills is very important. We know that high absenteeism is very important. Poor professional counselling is also important, and there is also a shortage of apprenticeships. A number of proposals have been made on the right to improve the situation of non-advanced persons in secondary education. They have, of course, been voted down in order. But I hope that now, in the new trend we are in, we can see again some of the suggestions when the next big message from the Government comes. In this case, it has to come fairly quickly because it is elections in 2009, and it is likely to be a government change – at least we can hope. So it's positive, as many have been concerned, that many of the opposition's proposals are followed up. These include proposals for schoolleader education, proposals for continuing education for teachers, and other proposals. However, I think it is worth noting that it is a pity that those proposals have to go round by being voted down in the Storting before the Government finds it too good to include the proposals in its proposals. Recent research into Norwegian school has revealed that it is good in many areas, but that we also have major challenges. We know that good and effective school management is important to improve school performance. We also know that many teachers have been uncertain about their own role, are uncertain about leading learning processes, and often this leads to combining student-centred methods with unclear expectations in the subjects. This helps many students not to perform as well as they could have done. The lack of learning pressure also lowers the level of ambition. Good learning processes and good learning require good teachers. We know that the quality of a education system can never exceed the quality of teachers, and we're lucky in Norway, because we have a lot of good teachers. They do an excellent job, but they need more colleagues. That means we have to train our teachers better, and we have to make sure we get more teachers. We have major recruitment challenges on the teacher's side. We know that the extension of hours alone will lead to the need for 10,000 new teachers. We know that all of the other factors are kept constant, we need approx. 7 000 new teachers towards 2020. The question is, where are we going to pick up those teachers? The opposition parties at Stortinget have repeatedly put forward proposals for recruitment plans, on measures that can help increase access to teachers. The parties to the Government have voted in favour of the proposals each time. That means that we're getting more and more on the backside of recruiting more teachers. Finally, I just want to remind you that the large cuts that have come into basic appropriations for universities and colleges have made the situation difficult for many teachers. That means they cut in offers, they cut in guidance and follow up, and they cut in study quality. It's going to go beyond the quality of the teachers who graduate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e485	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e488	I want to tell you a story from the reality of learning. It's about the time I was the director of the party games in North Norway, and we were going to build a big sculpture out in the spring. It was designed in wood, glass and iron, and it was designed by three artists. To get to this sculpture, we went to Harstadbotn and Stagne's secondary schools in Harstad, which had a mechanical line and a timber line, to ask if they could join us. Luckily, they said yes to that. Then they started. When I called the principal after 14 days to ask him how it went, he said, "This is absolutely amazing." We have reduced the absence from approx. 20 pst. to almost zero. When we sailed over to look at the work, we met very engaged students along with the artists, who were in full swing. One of the students said it this way: it's so great to create something that's going to be nice, and at the same time we have to calculate exactly the angles on the iron and the weight on the iron to get this to be just like it should be. To make a long story short: Queen Sonja opened the sculpture out in the Crown Spring, and there was a crowd of very proud students standing and watching. There was a sculpture that drew many people, and that people in the Harstad area used and used it in the summer. What is the essence of this story? Maybe it's about dignity, the dignity a young person experiences by being allowed to create and succeed. Perhaps it is not least about the teaching that the arts and cultural subjects represent, to which Ann Bamford refers in his study, Professor Ann Bamford, who has worked for UNESCO to identify how different nations have the arts and cultural subjects represented in learning. The PISA and PIRLS studies show that the best countries in the field of art and culture are also the highest in terms of reading and computing skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e504	I know it's Friday. One should perhaps be careful to take full advantage of the three-minute deposits, but I can't quite let it go quietly when the representative de Ruiter keeps his usual quirks over the way the non-socialist policy is. He actually appeared to be the employee party representative who is SV's defender of the former SV policy, where it was not so important to know how to work well and to understand democracy. It has even left SV. It might be time for the representative de Ruiter to do the same thing. The reason why I take the floor is that the Council of State in the change of line was injured to say that I could not take any more mistakes when I claimed that this government had received five years of teacher training, against the recruitment plan for teachers, against the obliging training plan for teachers and against specific requirements in the field of education. So I would like to know which of these proposals the Government has been in favour of. The government parties have voted against these proposals repeatedly in this House. They are going to vote against several of these proposals today as well. I think it's nice so far that the level of precision to normal is quite high, but the only way the Council of State can be right in its claim is that he from this pulpit recommends the government parties to support the proposals. 2, 4, 7 and 13 today. I'd like to hear that from the Council of State!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e511	The Council of State was amazed that the Left who is too fruity and green will not give priority to it. That's because when we have to choose, we put the most important thing first. We put it in order to provide systematic continuing training for teachers and to recruit teachers first, because it is most important. The important thing is that a school has good teachers and many enough teachers. In politics, one must give priority, even when one is in opposition. This is because opposition parties can play with money as little as government parties can. They have to spend the money they have, and they have to learn to prioritize. Of course, the government party SV has also learned that they need to give priority. The left's priorities are clear and simple, and it's that we put the money into recruiting more teachers and providing systematic training to teachers first. We want a lot of other things, but this is the most important thing. What also made me speak, however, is the point that the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide was on, and that concerns the policy where the Government does not put things first, but where, after giving back a rest slice, it adds two new rest cuts to higher education. Those who do not understand that education is also important to the school, those who do not understand that it affects, for example: Real science, which the school actually depends on and to which you work to recruit people, has to realize that there is something wrong with the context. So the council should collect the powder as soon as possible and make sure that his colleague Tora Aasland does not come back to this room, as she has done to now, to tell you that a rest cutting led to two new ones. Sending that signal into higher education that you have to cut the quality of education because you have to save the research is an incredibly bad signal by prioritizing. Those who are concerned about small educational institutions, and there are many of them like this. When you train, you have to know that this really eats your life out of them in this way. When it comes to being able to prioritize, to bet, and the left has done it. So we've been working on recruiting teachers, we've been working on recruiting researchers, fellow students, and we've been working on putting our money into making sure that higher education and research are harmless by prioritising knowledge as the most important thing – knowing that good teachers and building knowledge also provide schools that create the beautiful conditions that Tove Karoline Knutsen had. I myself went to a school that was like this. I can confirm that sparkling good teachers with many talents promise students so it really stands by. So what the council should actually do when he comes back to his department is to create a colloquial group with his colleague Tora Aasland that's about: how in the world are we fixing up the two rest slices? If they don't, it's actually undermining a lot of the quality in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e522	I'm not going to take any rest cuts, but try to get back to St.meld. No 31. I think it's important that we stick together on the promise of knowledge. I feel that there has been a good debate today. We've had different angles of incidence, of course, but I think it was Eriksen Soreide who said that we've agreed on the big lines of the Knowledge Lift. It's important. Of course, there is also agreement that it is serious when every five students who leave school can neither read nor write properly. That's why early efforts are important, and I think it's important that these big messages, St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 and St.meld. No 31, see you in context. In St.meld. No 16 we point out that early efforts are important, and in St.meld. No 31 we give a lot of the answers to that. So it has also been mentioned today that it has been sutring. I'm not choosing to use that word at all. I think it is reasonable for the opposition to point out that what has been voted down in the past is being lifted up in this big message. Then you could say, why? Well, because it has to be inserted into a context. It must be anchored when we come up with things. It's going very well with what's in St.meld. No 31 that we have a national framework, and that it takes a very long time before we get local implementation, that is, before the locals absorb this. That's some of the background for us to see this in context. I think what the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen mentioned in connection with NTNU shows just this. When they hear about this, they're ready to start further education for teachers. It's not just pinching. We also have to have a background for what we're doing, and a historical anchor for it. Then there's one thing that's left, and that's the teacher's training. Now there's a big message about it at New Year's, which will point to the new teacher's role. Little has happened in that area, from some of us went out almost 40 years ago until today, so that education needs to change for the better. I know that there are interesting attempts, including: at the University of Westfold, as a seafarer will include in the message that comes. But this is the future. I feel that when we have received this big message today, and when we get a new big message about teacher training, Norwegian school policy has got both head and tail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e535	It's not that often I throw myself into a debate about education and pedagogics, but I want to do it today. We have a good school, but we have a cross-political agreement that it can get better. We're talking about quality in school today, and many people stress that our kids have to be better in Norwegian and mathematics. We all agree that this is important. But a child who has problems at home with violence and assaults uses so much force on his fear that there will be little space left for x's and y's. When the whole life of the kid is chaos, with thousands of x's and y's inside them, we know that the fear of the unknown, the fear of loneliness and bullying, takes all the cancers. The size has a cross-political children's rights group. Yesterday we had Barna's Question Time in 2008 here, where the children themselves asked for help to be seen. A PISA study doesn't take that into account, but we adults and politicians have to take this into account when discussing quality in school. When a child lives in fear, is inattentive, does not lecture and isolate himself, in fact, the preschool teacher and the teacher are the first to discover it. That means that we need to have a teacher training in the future that will take this with us. I wanted to say this, because it's so important that children are seen. Children have the right to a good life, even at school. We have to give the teachers room to take care of the kids who are struggling at home. There are many demands for teachers, and I understand that there can often be a bad time for this. But, dear, I beg all of us adults: let children be seen! Let's be some of those who care, and who reach out a hand when we see that kids are struggling!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e546	As far as I remember, there's no one from SV, no one from the Center Party and no one from the Workers' Party who's called our school for play, nor koseskolan. As far as I know, there is no one from the Center Party, SV or the Workers' Party who has neither painted black nor brought the type of characteristic. When it comes to short circuiting, I don't know how to interpret it in this context. When you're going to put it into a school context, I'm going to say, for my part, short term doesn't mean to see the context. If you can say that the basis for good learning is well-being, that the kids are good at school and have the ability to reflect, I don't understand this. For me, it's a short ending to call the school a kosa school and a play school, and not see the connection between the social aspect, well-being, reflection, democratic understanding and good learning. I think it's other than the SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party that are struggling with short-circuiting school policy, and the ability to see these things in context. We would like to take the debate with both the Right and the Advance Party on the ideological foundation of the welfare state and our school, as well as on the relationship between well-being and good professional learning. There's nothing to be ashamed of. I am absolutely sure that both teachers, students and parents will recognize themselves in our description.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e555	I am not going to sign up in the debate on short-term or not. It was the first post of Freddy de Ruiter that inspired me to a little three-minute post. I am, like the representative Eriksen Soreide, proud that it is the Right who has stood for the fact that you have to make demands in school. What they Ruiter said was that the students are social individuals, not just competitive people. But then I would say that little competition does not hurt either. I think we all see that the students are social individuals – but competition actually stimulates performance! In this context, I would like to remind Freddy de Ruiter that the Prime Minister, his own boss, has signed us up in the perhaps toughest competition you've ever had. It's that we're going to have the world's best school. So if you transfer it to sport, the sport is going to produce world champions without having national championships, and without even measuring anything in Norwegian sport. So please little competition actually stimulates a little performance. I wanted to comment on Freddy de Ruiter. But then a little back to the council and what he said about more of the red-green policy. I'm really getting more confused about where his platform is, because in SV's program, it says that you have to go away from grades, you're against national tests, and you're generally opposed to making demands. Then I would simply like to ask: Where does the Council of State find traces of the basics of the SV's program in the message that is now here? It seems to me that you can turn it around and say that it's not more of a red-green policy, it's actually more of the Right- Policy this message signals in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e564	The accusations are hailing from the opposition. But I stand here and am very proud and very pleased with the big message that we are discussing today. In many ways, we can say that this big message is a teacher's lift, because it puts the teacher in the center. I just want to point out some of the steps that are so incredibly important, that will make everyday life different for the many teachers out in School-Norway, and that will make them better able to do what they want, namely to be good teachers for their students. The desire for more teachers has been included in the budget. In addition to increasing the general framework of the municipalities, we have also added money to the framework for reading, writing and numeracy between 1 and 4. class step. There will be more teachers in school – unlike the previous government, who clearly signaled to the municipalities and to the schools that there was enough money in the Norwegian school. You used so many resources. We're saying the opposite: we want to spend more money on school and on teachers. Schoolleader or principal education, which is something quite new that we have come up with now, is incredibly important to give competence to both the unqualified and the rectors who need more competence. Time for teaching is something teachers constantly experience that they don't have. We've reduced a sample. We have a systematic review to see how we can protect the time for teachers, so they don't have to spend time on so many other things except what they're trained for, education and education. For the extension of the 1 to 4 hours. class steps, we've spent money on the municipalities, and the money that's been deposited is intended for teachers, because what costs to expand the number of hours is teachers' resources. Educational plans set the previous government in motion and shall be specified down to the individual level. It's over now, and it's hard. Teachers have used evenings, afternoons and even nights to put these curricula into practice, and it has been difficult. Now we're going to give them guidance curricula and good examples from schools that got them out of municipalities that's been working on this. These are among many of our interventions, so this is a big message for teachers and to give them the helping hand that they need. We're on our way. I believe that this government is now showing that we are prioritizing the school and a comprehensive systematic review of the school. At the same time, I just want to say that we've started something that's incredibly important: a promise for the school libraries. We're going to bet on quality, opening time, more books, etc., which is incredibly important for the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e581	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e584	Finally, Lena Jensen, I can only say that SV, for example. may support the proposal of the Progress Party to earmark funds for school, if they wish to spend more money at school. What made me take the floor was the perspective that the representative Fallet drew into the debate, which is really a new perspective, but of course it's also about quality. How should a student with e.g. Big challenges at home, ready to solve problems with x's and y's at school? But the representative Fallet went into a trap, and it was that she said it was the teachers who would be responsible for following up students in a difficult situation. In the past, the Progress Party has proposed a more multidisciplinary school, where you attract other types of competence in school to address precisely the challenges pointed out by the representative. We have received very strong support for that proposal from the Joint Organisation, so I hope the perspective that the Fall drew up will also be strongly drawn up in the future. The representative of the Fall wishes to be congratulated – at least from the Party of Advancement – on having an impact on that perspective internally in the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e591	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has also spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e594	With the municipal arrangement of the Progress Party, there would be a lot less money for school, as the Progress Party will prohibit municipalities from levying property taxes. This means that the extra money proposed by the Party for Progress will be more than eaten up by the prohibition on property taxes. This will mean that several municipalities will have a considerable hard time providing operational resources to the school. So the school has no bright future in meeting the municipal arrangements of the Progress Party. That's what they say. To the representative from the Right, I would just like to say that even in sport, there are competition rules. We have something called child sport, which prohibits early specialisation, and which will carefully prepare the children for competition. The school, however, is a little different. It's not about competing, it's about performing for itself as a preparation for work and further education. There are important shades here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e602	We're all concerned with a good public school, but if we're going to get it, we have to have the ability to give priority first. Children must learn to read and write and calculate. It is important that the well-being is also present. But there's no contrast between well-being and learning, rather on the contrary, there's a close connection. What made me take the word was really several things. Firstly, SV's Lena Jensen says that school manager training is something that they have come with now. Schoolleader education was introduced during the previous government. The first school manager program that was introduced came up with BI. We've wanted us to have compulsory schoolleader education, because we know how important schoolleader is for good educational outcomes in school. Then it was claimed that so much more money came to the school. Well, I think it's interesting that quite exactly one year ago, November 26, 2007, State Council Solhell sent out a press release where he was concerned about school closures around the country. So we're going to write it one year later. In the ski, five schools have been laid down and now they're going to cut 40 teacher's fees. In the Municipal Report on 19 November we could read that 54 pst. by the municipalities propose job opportunities. And those are preliminary forecasts -- that's not how the situation can not get worse. So the government has put the municipalities in a situation where they have been required by law to offer fruit and green to high school students. Municipalities are faced with a situation where they need to give priority to the statutory tasks they have to break. That means they can't hire more teachers, because they're obliged to offer fruit and green. To the representative Freddy de Ruiter: It's an interesting paradox when he collects the property tax. Oslo Municipality does not have property taxes, but has the best school in the country on the national tests. Trondheim municipality – red-green Trondheim municipality – has property tax. They don't do so well on the national tests and now they have to put down nine schools. I just received an e-mail from LO in Trondheim, which arranges torch trains and demonstrations against the closure of nine schools. There is therefore little connection between the rhetoric of government parties and the real content of politics. Before talking about other parties not doing their job in terms of content, quality and resources in school, you might want to look a little bit closer after what has happened in the three years we've had red-green governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e617	I had actually promised to stay calm and not let me lift up, but the representative Freddy de Ruiter succeeded. It might have something to do with East and West Agder, what do I know! If it had been the government that had managed to transfer enough funds to the municipal sector to the tasks that they actually impose on the municipalities, we would not have had exactly the problem that Freddy de Ruiter points out. And it wouldn't have been for the skew in which the individual municipality is put in if they couldn't meet the requirements that are set, and the government didn't follow up with money to the municipality, it wouldn't have been necessary to assess property taxes. I come from a municipality that doesn't have a property tax, that has a good school, and that can handle it. In addition, the representative Freddy de Ruiter says that the schools should only be happy that you don't have the Progress Party in government position. Then I hope that Freddy de Ruiter has also read the programme of the Progress Party. It actually says that if you had a designation of the areas that are important, including school, you would have ensured the quality and the level that Freddy de Ruiter says he wants. But the government and Freddy de Ruiter's party do not follow up with those means. It's a wake-up call.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e626	It wasn't Freddy de Ruiter's post that got me to take the floor. It was to sum up some things that came up during the debate. Let me first say two words about the decline in the secondary school. For too many years, Norwegian society has taken too much time to deal with a problem that we have known about. Only when the red-green government came into existence has it been a strengthening of the focus and concrete measures that have been implemented. I include the conduct of youth school absences, the strengthening of counselling — both professionalisation and more money — screening tests for the first year of continuous follow-up, the pilot scheme with practical letters, and other things. But I think we all have to realize that there is a significant lift that needs to be, and it increases the focus that is on it, will provide a good basis for going even further. I'm completely overconfident that for the years to come, we're going to have to take even tougher action when it comes to falling out of the secondary school than we've done so far. When it comes to local economy and money – well, regardless of government and local economy, there will probably be an example in Norway of schools being laid down, teachers being laid off. But what we know is that, in sum, the municipal economy in these four years is far better than the right-dominated government in the previous period. And while the arrow pointed downwards when it applied to learning density, in the previous period, it is according to the statistics stable to date in this period. That's the facts. When it comes to the Left and Left programmes, I agree that the Left has provided a budget that prioritises the recruitment of teachers and competences. After all, it's positive that the Left has big ambitions in the opposition, even if they didn't get any of it in position. But it's kind of interesting that those who have to pay that bet are kids from one to eighteen years old. I'm more critical of that. Because there are extra kindergarten prizes, it's cut in the hours in Norwegian, math and English in the small school, it's cut in the hours of physical activity for the middle class, it's cut in fruit and green at the youth stage, and one will take away free learning material in the further education. So let's just sum up the cards in the end. It may seem that there is a greater disunity in the debate than it really is. It may also be a little confusing, I thought, when the representative Gundersen says that this message is a good right-wing policy, and the representative Anundsen says that the message is very weak, but with some points of light. That the Progress Party characterizes Right Policy as having only a few light points may not be new. Nevertheless, I believe we have to establish that the measures proposed, and the arrangements and objectives of the message, actually have a wide gap from left to right – presumably because part of it is not only SV policy, only Right policy, only KRF policy, or only FrP policy, but sensible things that we can gather about implementing. It's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e639	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e642	What the Council of State has found is that the Left is following its policy, and that is that we prioritise more teachers, we prioritise competence for teachers over hours – and that is what we have national meeting decisions on. And normally you have to keep what you say. The second thing left does is we remove the rest slices in higher education. We're strengthening the research by SEK 1.3 billion, that's approx. 1.5 per million in the budget, because we know that without strengthening higher education and research, we undermine everything that has to do with knowledge and school. So the answer is, we have a different priority than SV. Where SV would like to distribute money for many purposes, the Left learns to count to three: teachers, knowledge and research, and I would recommend the Party SV to learn the art of concentration the next time you create a party program. Because if you promise 250 things, you bomb on a lot, and you don't get the most important thing. For us, teachers, knowledge and research are the most important things, and we give priority to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e663	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e670	It is a broad political commitment to housing policy, and the aim is for most people who want it to be able to own their own housing. But the number of forced sales indicates that very many people can't invest in their own homes even if they want to, and that sometimes it's expensive to own their own homes, especially when it comes to first-time buyers, who want to enter the market, but who see that the threshold is high. «We red-green», as the Council of State writes in its letter to the Stortinget, is of the opinion that it is positive to better regulate the market by making it easier to obtain price information and to obtain information on cost developments. It is very positive that the new 2003 law on housing law has led to a speeding-up of housing facilities, and the red-greens believe that the new construction of housing houses, a good law on housing schemes, good housing support schemes and student housing is what is needed to ensure that the threshold for entering the housing market is not too high. It is therefore strange that the Progress Party believes that the main problem in the market now is that the supply side does not function well enough, that there are too many restrictions on new buildings, that we have a politically adopted land shortage, and that we have rigid regulatory plans, as they write in their comments. The question is what are the solutions of the Progress Party to the housing shortage now. Is it not to set up housing structures like the red-green ones behind us, as we have done in Norway, or is it to drop building new student homes? Is it to stop such magnificent buildings that we have, for example. in Oslo — National Gallery, Opera, Munch Museum, Tøenbadet? Are these rigid regulations and restrictions? My question to the Progress Party in this matter is this: What is the alternative solution of the Progress Party to the housing challenges we see in Norway – and to the proposals of the Council of State – other than to seek to find the balance between public interests and private development, as we are seeking to do in Norway? Will we have a country that is as poorly regulated on the housing market as a country where we see that the lack of regulation has led to the construction not serving the interests of people? We Red-Green want a harmonious balance between private and public interests in housing policy and believe it is important that those who buy are given more information about price and cost developments in order to make good and reasoned decisions. Finally, I would like to commend the initiators for raising this important debate on housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e681	I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party has a strong searchlight on the Housing Policy of the Advance Party, and I understand that they have read through this and still have a lot to learn. What was missing was that the representative also had visions and visions of his own policy. The proposal from the Left to prevent the number of young debt slaves, the number of forced sales and bankruptcys in housing law is an important proposal, and I am pleased that there is a broad political commitment to housing policy. It must be a goal that as many as possible of those who want it should be able to buy their own home, either alone or with others. Norway is one of the countries in Europe where a large proportion of the population prefer to own their own housing rather than rent. The progress party is far on the road to a self-regulatory market, and believes that the main problem in the Norwegian housing market is that the offer side is not working well enough, as the representative from the Workers' Party was in his post. It's per. today, extensive restrictions to prevent new construction, e.g.: the politically adopted land shortage, the restriction of ownership through restrictions on the use of existing land, and the lack of strong enough incentives for municipalities to facilitate growth and development. Where there are vacant plots, rigid control plans have been adopted that prevent effective land use, and this is something the Progress Party has pointed out many times. The high housing prices in Norway can largely be the result of conscious political choices from the red-green parties. The government has, for example: amended the Technical Regulations to the Planning and Building Act and the Rules of Procedure and Control, and this has been done by 15 pst. more expensive to build dwellings in Norway. I would also like to point out the difficult situation that many people with debt problems are facing today, and I would like to point out that debt problems can break a human being and follow it out – with the great consequences it has. The Progress Party has made seven concrete proposals to improve the situation of people with debt problems in Document No. 8:16 for 2007-2008. I believe that these measures are far more focused than what the proposal of the Left and the Labour Party is. I would also like to refer to the comments of the Advance Party on the extension of the housing aid scheme in the context of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e696	There's reason to be impressed by Ib Thomsen who says with great boldness that he's a member of a self-regulating market. That's what he says these days, when we see how bad things can go on the financial market when it's the so-called self-regulating market that's going to rule. But that's not the theme here. The theme of this case is the so-called low-income housing and the crisis that has arisen for someone in that context. When we start a debate on this, I also think it's a little important to remember that behind the so-called low-deposit housing system there's a lot of idealism. We'll forget that. But then it happens that when this idealism encounters the harsh reality, greedy capitalism, it can go wrong, and it has done so in some cases with these low-income homes and for those who have bought these dwellings. For many, it was a desire with these low-income homes to facilitate young people with little equity, in a somewhat difficult situation, being able to enter the housing market. It was actually behind someone. So maybe you chose, someone would say, to stick your head in the sand and say that making expenses in the first few years, in the system we have, must certainly come as higher monthly and annual expenses later. That's the situation that has arisen for many, that now meets one of the harsh realities, where the period of low spending, interest-freeness and some of those things, is over, and one is going to start paying back, and then it goes bad. It's worrying, it's gross, and it's sad for a lot of people who get into that situation. It's an important thing we're discussing. At the same time, I also want to pay tribute to the Government, and that praise should come completely independent of whether we support the Government, or whether we are part of the Government, because here the Government has taken an initiative. Here the government has gone in and taken the challenges that lie there, and put down a sample. There are several suggestions to try to clean up these conditions. Some of these proposals go to relief, to remedy and remedy, for those who have come into a difficult situation, and that is good. It is in the role of the house bank, that the house bank should go in and set up, at least where the house bank is a lender. I think that's good. It is also possible on the preventive side, that we should try to prevent this situation from occurring in the future. There are also several proposals. The government says it will come back to Stortinget with proposals that hopefully can prevent people from getting into the situation in which they have come. In that situation, I think the government has done a good job. They've taken this seriously, and they're about to do something about it. So a little comment at the end of the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left to extend the repayment period in the House Bank from 20 to 30 years for start-up loans. I take it for granted that this is one of the measures discussed by the House Bank with the housing laws. This is an area we like to discuss, but I don't see the need to adopt it in Stortinget. But that this is one of the measures that the House Bank should look at in relation to part of these housing laws that are in a critical situation, of course, I take for granted, and I hope that a thing to do is to find good and sound arrangements, so that one can avoid bankruptcy, so that one can avoid people who are in a difficult situation remaining in a difficult situation. That is my call, and I see, as I said, no need to vote in favour of this proposal. To me, of course, this is one of the areas that the House Bank is discussing with the relevant housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e711	First of all, I would like to thank the Left for bringing up this proposal. It is important that we have a debate, and it is also important that the Government has started a work. We take seriously the problem of low-deposit apartments and homes for young people. If one goes into Google or Finn.no, or one of these search engines, and searches for a dwelling that costs less than 1 million. kr, because you have thought that there will be a limit when you are young and going into the housing market, so you will get a proposal for small apartments that would normally cost well below 1 million. NOK, with deposits of NOK 400000 but with residual debt of SEK 2 million. kr. The fact that we have a society where we can't trust that price is price, because there are two prices, both the one you pay when you go in, and the one you have to pay for years to come, is wrong. In general, access to the housing market is difficult for young people. There are many reasons for that, but let's agree that in recent years housing prices, especially in those cities where there are places of study, have been too high. We have a difficult rental market because we have few professional players. We have too few student homes, and a lot of young people have to rent larger apartments together and live in a collective, and somehow solve it, but it's expensive, and it's crowded. So we have too few student homes. In the middle of this difficult youth housing situation, we get the product that I want to call wolves in sheep clothes: low-cost homes are high-cost homes. They are wolves in sheep's clothing in such a way that they are advertised at a low price, and in addition, they are at low cost in the beginning. Because that's how you don't pay off at first, just interest, and then it looks nice. And then the bill comes after a while. We've seen bankrupts, but we've just seen the beginning of it, because someone hasn't started paying off yet. What happens when they both pay the instalments and interest on the deposit fund and pay the common costs that were there at first, and then start paying the instalments? Then I think there's going to be even more bankruptcy in the cold water. It is a pity that the word «law of habit» is used for such traps, because it weakens confidence in something that should be good and that is good, namely that a housing law is built as an entrance to the housing market. We must now make sure that we tighten up, so that we do not weaken the confidence in housing as a form of ownership. We clearly see the need for regulation. I am pleased that the Government has announced that there will be legislative proposals. We shall continue this debate. We need a law that ensures that the buyer gets the right information, that he gets advice, and that one avoids selling finance, that is, that the person who sells the dwelling is also the one who finances it and is responsible for the down payment. Those roles have to be separated. We have to get a maximum limit on how much it is that can be common debt, etc. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the work being started. We would like this debate to have become a little more comprehensive, but we welcome the measures and hope they will come soon. So to that proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left. I think that most of the laws we get are going to be preventive so that we don't get into that situation in the future. But then there are many who are in this situation. That's why the Left, and the Christian People's Party supports it, suggests that one of the things you can do – one can do a lot of things – is extend the downtime for starting loans from 20 to 30 years. Then it's less to pay, so one gets to pay the loan over several years. So even if the SV or the government parties do not vote for – we would have wanted them to – they have at least sympathy for the fact that it is a good idea to do so, and it would have been good to get that signal clearly to the House Bank. Because there's one thing you can do to make the situation easier for everyone who's in the trap today. We have quite strict regulations for products in our society, and that's good. Authorisation schemes shall ensure the buyer of a product. So we have failed and created a situation on the part of society, on the part of the House Bank, - yes, one could have said that one should have read the whole text and should have set up a larger calculation, etc., but it is a fact that several thousand people in this country have bought a product that turns out to be more expensive than other products. We as society must both prevent, so that we do not get into that situation again, and help those who are in that situation. Then I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e739	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e742	To the extent that we have a housing market and a form of housing comparable to the US sub-prime crisis, what has happened in low-income housing and inflation in housing law, is what is perhaps the closest. We have now experienced a situation, both because we wanted it politically, and not least because it has appeared to be a very provocative product and a promising opportunity, where we have gone into projects that have had trouble financing and trouble paying later. The very form of housing, with the solidarity responsibility, does of course make this extra demanding, because you can theoretically end up in a situation where you do things right for yourself, but because others don't sort things out, you get into trouble yourself. It is a very important thing because it concerns many, both in today's situation and not least in terms of how we should stand to avoid this happening again in the future. It is therefore with great wonder that I notice what is the entrance of the Progress Party to the matter. You start your whole comment by stating that you support the principle of self-regulating the market. My view of this matter is that it is a very good example of why you cannot have a market that only regulates yourself. There is a situation in which a product that appears to be provocative has been offered, which appears to be something other than that, and this led to the forced sale of 2,573 housing units last year. This requires obvious action and requires rules and transparency to ensure that it does not repeat itself. It's the task of the state to make sure that happens. I would also like to say that it appears to me as a total record bomb when one draws out technical regulations, municipal control plans and cymal heights as an explanation that this has happened. This is in my opinion about completely different things, about completely different mechanisms in the housing market, in legislation, and it requires a completely different kind of approach and action. The government has taken that seriously. I would like to pay tribute both to the government and to the government for the fact that in a relatively short period of time you have floated around. A government secretarial committee has been set up and a wide range of concrete proposals have been put forward on how this can be handled, both in the present and in the future. That's good. I also feel that the opposition is largely connected to it. For those of us who have read some Document No. Eight proposals and settings in this period, there are very few who bear the mark of such a great degree of agreement, such a great degree of consensus and almost praise in relation to the work that the Government has done and plans to do. It is obvious that regulations are needed here, there is a need for action. I want to pick out some of the most important things. The most important thing in the future is that you get regulations that ensure that the buyer has sufficient information, that you know what you buy, that you know what you're facing, not in 14 days and in six months, but in two years, in five years, in ten years. I also believe it is important to assess the limitations of obligations in the form of housing rights, also in relation to the obligations that banks have to assess the strength and ability to pay that buyer has. For those who are already there, I would like to highlight the need for advice. I also want to ask the Council of State to comment further on the proposal that the Left and Christian People's Party has made to increase the payment period from 20 to 30 years. So it's obvious that these regulations will make it more difficult for everyone in the short term to get the opportunity to buy an owner-occupied dwelling. It might seem like a paradox when we say that it should be as much as possible possible. But there's got to be realism behind these projects, and you have to have the ability to pay. If we don't experience this kind of situation that we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e759	We amended the housing law here in the Stortinget in 2003. There was a broad consensus on that, and no one has mentioned that we should go back to it. But it's clear that the law has some childhood diseases. We need more constraints, and we need to limit it more to prevent the unprofessional actors. I don't think the main problem with the expansion of housing in this country is on a regulatory law and on demands, but I think that demanding good quality housing is also over time, is actually quite important for housing policy here in the country. I dare say that it was the Left who weighed the Government and the Council of State. At the first question we asked the Council of State, she did not see any problems with low-income homes or the House Bank's participation or anything, but now there are starting to be more good suggestions. I just hope we get these here in the hall fast before more people get into trouble. The left, while working on this matter, has become more and more critical of the House Bank's behaviour. I took the round when some of these projects were sold in my neighborhood in Old Town, Oslo. I actually felt that when all the others who were considering buying went out of the room, the broker came and told me that you should not do this. But what was special was that there were basically two banks in there. It was Kaupthing and the House Bank. The Icelandic banks had never heard of customers, but when the Husbank put its quality stamp on the project, it is clear that many thought it was a very safe project to go into. I think we should assess whether those interventions were correct, when the House Bank means a quality stamp for people. There are also many challenges related to knowledge and advice, as Mrs.Barten Moe addressed. Here, both the House Bank and the municipalities should offer advice to people, and the municipalities that have their own debt advisors should perhaps also have offered help, not only when people have come into trouble, but also when they are going to make big choices. We have a huge housing challenge, and it's not just these. We're facing a youth wave. We have a huge aftertaste in student homes. We need more deals at rental homes. We need more projects such as Ungbo or home purchases or a mix of rentals and purchases, which means that those young people who otherwise have a poor starting point can have the opportunity to get into the housing market. And we need more professional actors. I believe that housing policy has suffered under many governments. The reason why it has done so is that it is primarily about urban policy, and urban policy is not exactly what gives the highest status to work with. Last week the first brigade went over the end, at Lillehammer. There is now a danger that DNB NOR will have to pay and redeem some of the residents, because they have complained that these were the cheapest dwellings in the city, while the people have experienced, that when they bought the dwelling, the rent was NOK 8 000. Now it's over $200,000. I think we have quite a lot of done here. I think we're running out of time considering those who have a lot of problems. I hope the government gets speed on everything it says it should do. I had hoped that today we could make a decision about some grip on the House Bank. I expect the government to come back quickly to the Storting, because at least this has budgetary implications and other consequences that we have to assess. So it should quite quickly come up with a matter from the Government that takes these problems seriously. We're on our eggs to get a lot bigger problems. But I'm glad that the Council of State has woken up, and I think it's important that the Left stood for the ‘wake up call’, because this is a potential bomb on both our loan and housing markets and too many young people who get an incredibly bad start on their ownership of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e774	When I took over as a local and regional minister last September, I announced that I had the ambition to promote a more social housing policy. I hope the Stortinget sees that, and many others, in the 2009 state budget. There's a new and better bumper stand in place. There are supplements for several rental properties, there are proposals for a 20-year fixed rate in the House Bank, to mention the most important. So I think that in September last year or the Left and the rest of April this year, I could predict how incredibly important it is in these days to focus on what we can do with political action to secure what I experience is a common goal, that everyone should have the opportunity to live safely and well in their own home or in a rented home. I have told you in a letter to Stortinget what has been done so far. Let me focus on some points, bring an update: What's the status now? I have described a meeting that I had on 23 April with various actors in this field. At that meeting, it was great to see how some people put their heads together and found out that at least here we have to make sure that people know what they're going into, that they know the total price when they think they're buying into a battleship. I can now inform you that the consumer environment, the Norwegian Real Estate Agency and NBBL were some of them about changing industry standards. It has been changed in line with the resolutions. Then the House Bank has strengthened its practice and the law for lending. In order to obtain loans, the bank now demands that the law of the trustee has taken out insurance against house rental losses. Then the Ministry of Finance has had dialogue with the finance industry on the problems of low-level housing laws and the deterrence obligations of banks. The bank complaint subject has taken a decision that can get a lot to say also to many others. A bank had not fulfilled its deterrent obligations and had to pay debts to two consumers who had not been able to afford to pay additional borrowing costs on the public debt of the law. The House Bank has engaged NIBR to carry out a new survey of the scope and problems associated with so-called low-injection burets. They have been given a deadline for the year-end with that mapping. Then the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Consumer Council and the NBBL now have a cooperation to develop information material on how law enforcement agencies and shareholders who have had financial problems can solve them. The information is directed towards the management of the barricades, the partners, consumers and municipalities. Then I understand that the Storting has registered that different legal work is now in progress. In view of the time, I say no more about it, but refer to my letter. Let me also say: I believe that the House Bank will have a more clear and important role to play in the future. I still think the starting loan – despite the fact that there are now a lot of municipalities going on and taking up more start-up loans than before – is a well-kept secret. It is important in these days both for those who are to be established and it is important in relation to refinancing. Here there are possibilities for people who are in trouble today. I believe the House Bank itself can now contribute even more actively to providing more universally designed and low-energy housing. To the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party, my answer is: whoever is busy with the fact that the start-up loan should work even better must be willing to do so, for example. to see if postponing the repayment period from 20 to 30 years is a grep. It requires some budgetary changes. Therefore I now promise that I will take a look at that. Finally, let me just tell you that in the coming week I'm going to have a new meeting with different actors in the housing and construction industry just to see if there's anything even more we have to do at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e797	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e801	The left wants to give more priority to those who need it the most. The left's alternative budget strengthens housing measures by more than 100 million. kr more than the government proposal. It is important to stimulate interconnections to build more student homes, and it is important to stimulate municipalities to build more rental homes and to facilitate housing for those who have been accommodated or subjected to detoxification. Access to several types of housing is an important tool to prevent the number of young debt slaves. But it's not just about giving money. There's also some grip we can do that doesn't cost the whole world money, to make access to housing better for some groups. I then aim for the start-up loan scheme, the rental sector and the housing cooperatives. The housing sector in Norway has been heavily deregulated in recent years. It's time to look back a little bit and see if there's any means we're going to use again to hit better those who need it the most. It is good that several actors have been allowed into the housing market, but the new ones are mainly targeting the strongest in the market. We need to use other actors and recognise that some public instruments are needed to meet the more disadvantaged. With regard to the start-up loan scheme, both the Riksrevision and a NIBR research report have pointed out that the scheme can be made more effective. In addition, we need to look at several models to help those with low income enter the housing market. A buy-back scheme from rented to owned dwellings can be one of the models. I also think that we can develop more models by cooperating more with the housing cooperatives and trusting them to provide more housing with a social profile and with a youth profile. It is likely that there is also something to be recovered from allowing more than the municipalities to manage housing funds on behalf of the state and the Husbank, for example. the start-up loan scheme that several housing layers want to test out. In addition, we need to make the rental housing market more professional in Norway. Today there are many small landlords and many inexperienced tenants. We need to get bigger players and more long-term into the rental housing market. In addition, as politicians, we also need to consider whether to recognise the rental housing market a little more. Compared to rented accommodation, there are great advantages to owning. This is about priority, but also about recognising that not everyone should necessarily own their own home. We must therefore turn the political focus a little more into creating more predictability and long-termity for those who are renting. It is therefore necessary for the authorities to contribute to professionalising the rental sector and to contributing to a more long-term perspective. The rental sector has come to stay in Norway. Furthermore, it is important to strengthen the information and advice system towards those who are inexperienced or disadvantaged in the housing market. We know that only half of the municipalities, e.g. have housing social action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e818	It is worth noting that the Progress Party has begun to define a free market as a self-regulatory market, while the content of its policy has not changed anything. They will have the strongest right on the market, and the lessor shall have the most say. We red-green want a better regulated market where information is required. We red-green want low-deposit homes to get the young people into the market, and we red-green strongly support the Debt Schemes Act that helps those who have problems paying the bills. This is the initiative we would never have had with a progressive party-dominated government, and has been useful in regulating a free market. It's called help to self-help and is one of the ideological carriers of a red-green policy. Otherwise, it is positive that the initiative of the Council of State is supported by all political parties, who claim that her proposals will lead to a better regulated market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e827	I just want to say that the Left and Christian People's Party wants to turn its proposal into a transmission proposal, on the basis that the Council of State said she would take this proposal further into the work on a complete package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e832	From the red-green government parties we hear about what should be done. It seems to me that there is only rhetoric, because we see no effect in politics today. We have to have action, we have to have something that works. In my post, I was in moments that could change the matter for the better – bring down the housing prices and drop our youth to, not least the first time. It is regrettable to note that the government parties are not so humble as to include all the input into this important matter, in order to make the situation much better for the young people entering the housing market. What we hear in the answer from the government parties is that they are now putting down a new sample to look at it. Experience with such samples is that they work over a long period of time — but this is urgent. The party of progress has also pointed out other things. What about the high interest rate? Why don't you do something about it now? It would also have an impact on this case. What about banks that are skeptical about lending money to our youth? Why don't you do something about it now? We see that more and more young people now go into unemployment. Why don't you do something about it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e841	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e857	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e864	I believe that there is a broad consensus within the Committee on and understanding that the Ombudsman has different roles and duties to perform, and that the Ombudsman should perform his/her duties independently of the views of the Ministry at all times of political direction. Nor shall the Ministry affect the profile chosen by the agents. I'm going to say in my explanatory statement something about the majority's view. Let me state that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, believe that today's form of association gives the ombudsmen a real professional and independent position in relation to the views of the ministry and the government in various matters. We see it as important that the ombudsmen, through the current form of association, have good dialogue with the law enforcement and administration, while the ombudsmen do not have any restrictions on what they can comment on, nor on which authority they can criticise. We have also seen that the representatives on several occasions, among other things. have expressed dissatisfaction with political decisions in the media. The proposers have requested that the length of the target be assessed and, where appropriate, that re-trust be granted. The proposers initially asked for an assessment of whether the ombudsmen should be converted into bodies during Stortinget. If the ombudsmen are converted into bodies in the Grand Duchy, this may, according to the Council of State, in the form of a letter to the Committee, lead to legal issues such as: in the case of binding administrative decisions or the exercise of control over private individuals. A transfer of administrative power to the bodies subject to the Storing could affect the distribution of power and the balance of power between accumulation and government. It may also weaken the role of the Civil Ombudsman if several representatives with different responsibilities are part of the Stortinget. Overall, an association form under Stortinget has many consequences. The majority believe that this too helps to strengthen the maintenance of today’s form of association. The independence of the agents is essential for the performance of the different roles they have. Changes that we see taking care of this, we will also recommend. The majority believe that access to renewal of the annual target should be removed. The majority is also of the opinion that the annual target period for all ombudsmen should be set at six years. These changes will provide the Ombudsman with sufficient time to engage in and carry out his/her duties. At the same time, it will allow for renewal – innovation and dynamics – in the functioning of the Ombudsman. The majority believe that the current form of association, with the adjustment of the annual target period, will both preserve and strengthen the independence of the agents. This is essential for the majority’s view on the issues raised by this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e881	The background to this proposal is the vicissitudes surrounding the recruitment of the child ombudsman. We've gone into this discussion with an open mind. There is no specific performance behind any part of the proposal or how it has been treated. But we've seen from the hearings and some of the recordings that have come, that we've probably peeped in a matter that we think there's reason to look at. When it comes to the issue of ombudsmen on a general basis, we believe that the Ministry has argued well against it. We have then chosen not to continue that proposal. In fact, we might have thought, if we had ruled, that it might have been an idea to consider whether maybe another department had looked at such an recruitment process, and that it would have contributed to a greater integrity around the process itself. But it's the government's own business how to do it, so we're not going to get involved in it any more. I just want to throw it in like a little thought. Otherwise, we have noticed that there is good support around the proposal to stick to a year-long measure, and we expect that something will happen in that direction gradually. What we've also seen in the hearings and recordings is that some of the agents have a lot of different kinds of tasks. On the one hand, they have the classic ombudsman function, and on the other hand, they have the tasks of supervision, and on the other hand, we talk about some of the public administration tasks that the departments have probably been tempted to do elsewhere than themselves – there is something about having an agent at their disposal to push the tasks. We think there's a reason to do a clean-up process on this, that you could simply start a work to clean up these problems. Perhaps some tasks should be returned to the departments, some of which might need to be considered in order to clean up the form of supervision, perhaps also to make the ombudsman role visible and clean up the ombudsman role purely administratively. From that point of view, we have joined in the proposal to conduct investigations in that direction. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the right hand side is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e896	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e899	For the left, the word ‘order’ is a rather sacred word. Being an agent is something you are on behalf of others. You have the job of being a spokesman for, but also caring for others. In a democracy, it is the elected representatives of the citizens. It's our job to take care of the citizens who voted for us, it's our job to take care of the territory we've been chosen from, and it's our job to be the valve in society that an agent is. That means that our job isn't just to take the big grips of a society, it's also our job to listen to the small voices. It's our job to sit down with every citizen who wants to tell their story. Therefore, in principle, the Left believes that there should be only two representatives in addition to the elected representatives. It is the Civil Ombudsman, who has a very special position in the government, and it is the Children's Ombudsman, because children do not have the right to vote. Because children do not have the right to vote, children do not have any elected representatives as their representatives. That's why it's right to have a children's representative in a community. For us, it is important to protect about the ombudsman role, and not to erode it. If all possible possible groups get an agent, it takes from the elected representatives the responsibility it actually is to be the representative of these groups. You erode democracy if you make an ombudsman for any situation and for any group that feels bored. It is the principle base on which the Left's position is based in this matter. I believe that we must settle with all the wishes for representation for any group. Summarized in our committee, we had three ombudsman demands last week. It's everything from disabled people to their own language agent, to having a student representative, etc., etc. I think we should protect the Ombudsman's title. It's not for everyone to use. It's a title that shouldn't be bad for everyone to be able to wear on their business card. That is why we have made a proposal together with the Right to have a review and clean-up of the Ombudsman’s use. Too many of those who today have the title ombudsman are actually supervision, and there is another function in our administration. As for who's going to appoint the representatives, we could have done a lot of creativity. You could, for example: have appointed the Children’s Ombudsman in a much more exciting way; sail if the Government shall have all the brilliance for having done so in an exciting way this time! I think that it might be e.g. engage children in this process and provide the group of representatives for a much more active role, would have contributed to giving the Ombudsman the status it actually deserves. I do not think we have finished this matter. I hope the Government is open. But I also hope that this magnificence protects the ombudsman role that the elected representatives have, and does not erode it by offering it to government employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e921	I believe that the Right with these proposals has raised an important discussion. Because we must always have a discussion about the role of the ombudsmen, as the representative Skei Grande has now suggested. However, I have not agreed that these representatives should be transferred to Stortinget. I have discussed this matter with the representatives, and no one in that meeting felt that it has been problematic to be associated with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality in fulfilling its role. Nor is it the case that these ombudsmen deal primarily with issues related to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality; they deal with issues relating to the entire public system and also parts of private activities. I also think what the representative Skei Grande says about how we appoint children's representatives is interesting. An organization that Skei Grande knows well, that's LNU, I've asked for input from, because the Children's Ombudsman has a very special role not only by being a public voice, but also by being able to talk to children. I want to discuss further how we can appoint children's representatives, where we also take care to be able to talk to children. So I think that's an important input. I believe that with the form of association we have today, we have a good professional dialogue between departments and representatives, and I believe that a transformation into a body under Stortinget raises a number of legal challenges. However, I will make certain changes to the organisation of the management dialogue by the department with the representatives, and the administrative department in the department will take responsibility for the administrative contact. We thus clarify the distinction between professional dialogue and administrative governance. The Consumer Ombudsman, the Children’s Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have important driving roles. They take the initiative, participate in and shape the public discussion. They also have a critical look at the private sector. The ombudsmen promote equality and non-discrimination, the interests of children and the interests of consumers through the control of marketing measures. I will also consider new measures to further contribute to ensuring the independence of the ombudsmen. I believe that the proposal that there should not be access to the renewal of the ombudsmen's targets is precisely such an approach that will strengthen the actual independence of the ombudsmen. At the same time, in order to allow the Ombudsman sufficient time to carry out his duties, an annual period of four years is not sufficient. I believe that a six-year period is the best way to ensure the balance between continuity and the need for renewal and conversion in the ombudsman role. I will now submit to the consultation proposals on annual targets of six years without access to renewal. That is why I believe this discussion has actually been important. We have now proposed some changes, and it is important that we constantly have a discussion about the role of the ombudsmen. A review of the mandates has been proposed with a view to converting some of them into supervisory bodies. I do not agree that the representatives should be supervisory bodies. The ombudsman is linked to bodies independent of the administration, the courts and the public authorities. The ombudsmen do not take traditional decisions but have general opinion. Therefore, the ombudsman name is more appropriate for those bodies. In addition, the important driving role of the representatives would be difficult to exercise if the representatives were converted into supervisory bodies. Then I would like to draw the attention of the representative Skei Grande to the fact that the gender equality and discrimination officer has now taken over responsibility for the disabled. The organisations of disabled people are very happy that they are now getting their own representative. So now we're using the experience of what we've done in the gender equality struggle to make gender equality in other areas of society – in the case of disabled, ethnic minorities, homosexuals and older workers. I believe that has been a proper and good development. The Consumer Ombudsman, the Children’s Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman are and will continue to be influential and independent administrative bodies. Their independence is crucial to the functioning of the ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e942	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e958	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Thommesen, and then Mr Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e969	This case concerns the so-called video fee, which finances Norwegian cinema and film funds. The money that comes in, approx. Ninety million. kr per year, finance cinematographic activities and the great promise made by the digitisation of Norwegian cinemas. The proponents of the Progress Party point out that this fee puts Norwegian distributors at the forefront of a competitive disadvantage that will be put on a new digital everyday life. I assume that the individual parties explain their positions, and I want to take the right starting point like this. The measures financed by the levy are very important to the right, and we assume that if the levy disappears or shrinks, these measures will normally have to be financed from the State budget. However, we believe that proposers have a good point when raising the issue of increasing digitisation in the systems will make it possible to maintain an adequate Norwegian distribution, which may provide the basis for the necessary revenues. Large parts of the film market are quite internationalised, and it will become common to distribute over the networks via clean downloads. There shall be no great imagination to imagine that a costly Norwegian fee will quickly lead the market out of the country. It is also important, from a commercial policy point of view, to ensure good competitive conditions for this industry. We also want to have good Norwegian-based distributors in the future. It is of the opinion that it is important to be ahead of developments and to be prepared for the rapid changes that may come into the market, changes that can both put the legs under the incomes of cinematographic purposes and can help the industry to get out of business. From this point of view, we have chosen to address the proposals which are broadly described by the proposers. I refer to the proposal in the vote, on which the right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e988	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred. By an incubator, Tove Karoline Knutsen was not on the list of speakers. It's not her fault. Then she gets the word before Karin S. Woldseth, so that Karin S. Woldseth also gets the opportunity to comment on her posts in his post!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e993	The fee scheme we have on videograms is managed by Film and Kino and finances the activities of Norwegian cinema and film funds. This is a fee that per person. is now bringing in an estimated 90 million. kr per year. This money goes for good purposes, including a number of cinematographic activities, such as: actions for children and young people and festivals in the field of film. I think it is important just to point out that the video/DVD charging scheme generates large revenues for important cultural purposes in the film field. An overall committee supported the proposal in St.meld. No 22 for 2006-2007, the Film Bulletin, that the funds from the Norwegian Cinema and Film Fund levy should go to the digitisation of Norwegian cinemas, when the film notification was processed last year. The Committee also concluded its comments on the Ministry's intention to engage in dialogue with Film and Cinema, bearing in mind that parts of the Fund may be used after digitisation has been implemented for other purposes in the field of film. I notice that the Norwegian Videogram Association arranges to remove the DVD/Video fee based on the idea that this fee is negative for the industry. However, I am more in line with the Film and Cinema organisation, which believes that the charging scheme contributes to the opposite, that is to say, to strengthen the film-cultural field, which leads to greater demand and growth for the entire film industry. This, as I see it, will benefit all distributors. It is quite right, as the proposers say, that developments take place quickly within this field, and that downloads of music, films, etc. Internet has become common. However, it must be right that such distribution channels should also respond to charges in line with others, and that a wide range of measures must be put in place to prevent illegal downloading. In the film report, where these issues are concerned, the Ministry says that it will follow developments in this field and, where appropriate, adapt legislation on the charging.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1002	We, as the proposers behind the proposal for a representative that we are now discussing, believe that there should be a thorough discussion of the charging system in the area of films and the consequences that this could bring. Norwegian cinema and film funds are financed by taxes on the cinema and video industry. The size of the video sets the rates, which are currently in practice DVD. For 2008, the fee is SEK 3.50 per person. unit, the same as the fee has been in place since 2000. This fee comes at the top of the video/DVD industry paying full VAT of 25 pst. Other cultural services are exempt from VAT or pay less VAT. Why is that so? Is it watching a good movie on DVD at home in the sofa hook less culturally than going to a concert, reading a good book, or enjoying a painting? I have a feeling that that's what's behind the special treatment of this part of Culture-Norway. I think these are attitudes that hang back from the time the video industry was viewed as a little sloppy, how much of the turnover were films that were too bad or too violent to be shown in cinema. Or is the reason that you've found an industry that's been going very well for a few years, and that you use it as a dairy cow? Another aspect is the impact of the charge on competition. We in the Progress Party believe that the fee represents a distortion of competition in favour of the cinema. There is also reason to ask questions about the relationship with the EEA Code, which we believe prohibits the country from favouring certain industries at the expense of others. The forwarding party believes that the total tax burden on the industry, when the tax comes to the top of the normal tax of 25 p.m., is disproportionate. Only video/DVD excise duties have increased from 18 to 19 million. 1998 to around 90 million. kr in 2008. The video/DVD industry accounts for an important part of cultural consumption for the wider population. Nevertheless, the level of taxation that is significantly higher than that applied to most industries, and in particular when compared with other actors in the cultural sector, discrimination must be said to be serious. The Progress Party agrees with the Norwegian Videogram Association, which believes that the industry should initially be treated in the same way as cinema, i.e. with a VAT rate of 8 pst. If the VAT rate is maintained, the excise duty must be removed or, at least, re-established and reduced. Another central point of the proposal is the relationship with the new possibilities created by the Internet. Developments are taking place very quickly, and it is becoming increasingly common to download movies, music, etc. from the Internet. The answer to the future challenges is not to impose new taxes on the legal downloading of films. It has to be assumed that this is a cross-border activity. This means that such a charge will put Norwegian distributors in a completely impossible competitive position. It is appropriate to provide for a shift in the fee and, instead, to develop a comprehensive policy in this area, so that we will also have Norwegian web-based distributors of films in the future. But unfortunately, this does not seem to have gone up for the government parties, which choose to go backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1017	The representatives Ulf Erik Knudsen and Karin S. Woldseth from the Party of Advancement promote in Document No. 8:70 for 2007-2008 two different proposals: that the Government removes the DVD/video fee that the Government presents a case that ensures a level playing field for Norwegian web distributors of films First of all, I would like to remind you that the DVD fee was recently dealt with by Stortinget in connection with the film release, St.meld. No 22 for 2006-2007, Guide. I also refer to the conclusions of the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, which indicate that an overall committee joined the proposals of the Wizard that the funds from the levy on Norwegian cinema and film funds should go to the digitisation of Norwegian cinemas and in the long term to other tasks. The Committee therefore agreed on the objectives to be pursued by this levy. I cannot interpret this differently from the fact that the Committee also considered this charge to be justified and that it should be maintained. I therefore do not see the need to re-submit these questions to Stortinget after such a short time. So the question of web distribution of films. In the film message, we said that downloading films should have the same fee as placing on the market of physical specimens. Download and physical turnover should therefore be treated equally. In addition, it is important that the revenues of Norwegian cinema and film funds do not decrease significantly when web-based legal distribution of films becomes more widespread. This will require a change in the law. The minority of the Committee proposes that the Government submit a separate case on web-based distribution of films. I can't see that there's a need for this. These are issues that will be considered in the context of the announced legislative amendment. The Ministry will carry out, as we always do, a thorough investigation of all aspects of the issue of downloading films and the financing of Norwegian cinema and film funds. Here we will also look at the competitive impact on Norwegian online distributors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1037	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1045	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1053	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 7 and 8, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 9-11, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 12 and 13, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposals No. 14-17, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 18, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a mandatory requirement for school manager training in order to be appointed as principal. An action plan and a plan of progress are assumed to meet formal requirements for all school managers.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1091	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–17, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1125	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Party of Advancement and the Left. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to undertake post-secondary education within class management for all teachers over time, as part of an obliging plan of competency.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary changes to the regulations of the Training Act, so that the requirements of competence are linked to the teaching of all subjects and at all stages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1147	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing a system of financial incentives for secondary schools to reduce the number of students who stop training before school is completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1175	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party, and the Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that individual teachers are given the right to a commitment and individual competency enhancement plan.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that training in cooperation between home and school is integrated into teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1197	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the introduction of 10th stage national samples.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a pilot project on hostitising in enterprises for teachers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and not later than the end of the first half of 2009, to implement an obliging national recruitment plan in order to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in primary and secondary school at the time to come.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and establish national guidance for the school ownership of the municipalities in cooperation with the Local Government.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a concrete plan for the gradual phasing-in of continuing training for all teachers in all disciplines.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of Technical General Science, TAF, as an ordinary part of the official Norwegian school offer at secondary level, and the inclusion of TAF in the review of the vocational and hourly distribution in secondary schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1276	During the debate Bjørg Tørresdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. This proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal and then, as amended, reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government increase the maximum repayment period for starting loans in the House Bank from 20 to 30 years.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1301	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Thommess, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left 2, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to launch an overall review of the various agents and supervision bodies with a view to converting some of the agents into supervisory bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1325	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the length of the annual target and to grant re-trust to the same agent for several periods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1355	In the course of the debate, Mr Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-21.ana.ud717e1386	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
