ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e43	The representative Ib Thomsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e46	On behalf of the big business representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and myself, I would like to promote a representative proposal to give municipalities the right to veto the establishment of asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e51	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e54	On behalf of the representative Bent Höie and myself, I am delighted to propose a modernisation and improvement of the housing support system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e73	Today, we are discussing a proposal for a document from representatives of the Right and the Left where they want to ensure equal treatment of disability pensions from private and public occupational pension schemes. A proposal is promoted in the document asking the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2008, to promote the necessary amendments to the Act on Occupational Pensions, in order to eliminate the discrimination between private and public occupational pensions with regard to access to disability pension while receiving short-term benefits. I am quite sure that the proposers and the opposition parties themselves will give their own reasons for their views. Whereas, during the examination of this matter within the Committee, there has been both written and open consultation; The Hearing Officers have, in my opinion, made clear their views and have also made constructive representations. The majority, consisting of the government parties, propose that the proposed document be annexed to the Minutes. The background for this is that it seems natural for the majority to see this matter in conjunction with another related work done by the Government in this area. In this context, I would like to point out that the Government of the Great Britain Communication on Work, Welfare and Inclusion has made proposals to replace rehabilitation money,refunds and time-limited unpaid pay with a new, temporary public benefit. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has had a note out at the hearing proposing to call the benefit work clearance. Furthermore, the Government intends to submit a legislative proposal in the spring of 2008 as a follow-up to the proposals in the consultation note. The majority believe that it would be appropriate for the Government to provide an assessment of the possibility of supplementing social security benefits with disability pensions from private occupational pension schemes after this consultation and review has been carried out. In the view of the majority, this is a real issue which should be further assessed. This is also the starting point for the document proposal not to be rejected, but to be proposed to be annexed to the minutes. In addition, I refer to the work on a broader pension reform that includes the social security and occupational pension schemes. In this context, there is also a need to review the various occupational pension schemes in the private sector. In the view of the majority, it will not be possible to promote a case, if any, already in the context of the review of an amendment to the Occupational Pensions Act in this area. This document was submitted on 29 April and is being debated today, 9 May. At the same time, we know that the Government is fully inquired about its work in connection with the revision. An assessment seen in the context of this work in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is a much more sensible approach to addressing this issue in a holistic way. In principle, the question of whether the occupational pension schemes in the private sector should be complementary to short-term benefits in social security was addressed in St.meld. No 35 for 1994-1995, the so-called welfare communication. The working line, which meant that short-term benefits from popular security were not to be supplemented by unearned pensions from occupational pension schemes, was given political support in the Stortingen. So this is followed up by concrete proposals for rules in the Occupational Pensions Act and through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 47 for 1998-1999, Entrepreneurship Pension Act. I am referring here to the fact that in its attitude to this odelstingsproposition, an overall finance committee joined the Ministry's proposal for Section 6-1, second paragraph. This section deals with the payment of a disability pension at the same time as sickness benefits or redundancy benefits from social security. The total membership of the Financial Committee is shown by Innst. O. No 50 for 1999-2000. In this case, the disability pension starts to run twelve months after the acquisition capacity was reduced. If the payment of sickness or reinsurance benefits prior to such payment is suspended, the invalidity pension shall be paid from the same date, provided that appropriate professional recovery has been tested. There has since been no reassessment of these principles. That's right in Ot.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007 a legislative clarification of the applicable law has been interpreted by many, including proposers, as a narrowing. It is possible that practice before this clarification has been somewhat different and that the clarification of the applicable law in Section 6-1 of the legal text itself is interpreted as a tightening. I also refer to the Minister of Finance's emphasis on this in his letter to the Financial Committee dated 7 March 2008. I also see that in the comments of the Hearing Officers on Ot.prp. No 32, as we dealt with last year, came statements that indicate that the provision is interpreted differently in terms of rehabilitation and payment of disability pension from the scheme at the same time as the short-term benefits of the people's rights. If there is to be a change in this area, there has to be a change in the corporate pension law itself, which then specifies that it is possible to pay disability pension at the same time as short-term benefits. Without anticipating the timing of events, this question needs to be considered. The question that is then raised is whether this can be done in such a way that it does not weaken the working line, on which there is a broad political consensus. Here I have noticed that the main organisation of the financial industry has proposed that a change in the law of the pension can be made so that what is paid out from private occupational pension schemes is the difference between the level of the pension plan and the short-term benefit in the period of redundancy payments, if that is what will become the future concept. There may be a road that needs to be considered to prevent what I would call an opposite injustice. The Ministry has also had a working group such as: has assessed the changes proposed by the FVO in this field to change the wording of some sections of Section 6-1. It is also part of the story that the main business organisation of the economy has gone against the amendment to the main business organisation of the financial industry. I am not saying this to weaken the basis for a new assessment of the question, but to stress that there has been different perception in different camps in this area. That being said, I see that there is a difference between disability pensions from private and public pension schemes. This is the basis on which, as I have pointed out in the past, the majority of their comments consider that the issue should be subject to a broader assessment, but then in relation to the work done in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. In the proposal for a document, the other proposers also mention that they will reintroduce the tax exemption for the benefit of employees in terms of the employer’s coverage of the costs of treatment or health insurance. The proposers do not propose this in connection with this proposal for a document. The general rule is that any benefit gained from employment is taxable, even if this is a cover for the private expenditure of employees. In our opinion, such a tax exemption has a small social profile. Often, it is the most resource-intensive workers who can most easily achieve that the employer covers treatment insurance, etc. The vast majority do not receive such ‘goods’ from their employer, but they themselves have to pay such expenditure on taxed funds. By means of such a scheme, we can obtain a classed system depending on the economy of the individual enterprise and thus the ability of the enterprise to cover such expenses. From our point of view, we are concerned with a good public and not least equivalent health care. There are many reasons for equality and distribution which suggest that such types of benefits in kind should not be made tax-free. Finally, I would recommend that the majority vote be taken on the matter of attaching the proposed document to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e111	The Progress Party supports the proposal of the Right and the Left to treat non-pension from private and public occupational pension schemes in a non-discriminatory manner. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007, the Progress Party supported the law in force to ensure that disability pensions are not complementary to return payments. We did this for the sake of enabling people to come back to work, which is the best thing for individuals and for society. We pointed out in this regard the discrimination between private and public employees. We are aware that the Government aims to make a legislative proposal during the spring. However, the party concerned fears that this proposition will not sufficiently ensure effective non-discrimination between public and private schemes. Equal treatment is an important principle for the Progress Party, and we therefore support the proposal for non-discrimination of private and public occupational pensions in the area of access to disability pension while receiving short-term benefits from social security. Like the proposers, the Progress Party also wants to reintroduce tax exemptions for the benefit of employees in terms of the employer’s coverage of the costs of treatment or health insurance. On the other hand, the Progress Party is surprised by the majority’s claim that it is “the most resource-intensive workers who can most easily obtain that the employer covers treatment insurance”, as the case-law rapporteur, Mr Jakobsen, also pointed out. The Progress Party shall refrain from classifying workers into groups of resource strengths and weaknesses. When the comments of the majority of the Committee mention resource-intensive workers, there must also be low-resource workers. So this is taking away from the Progress Party. For the Progress Party, such a claim represents a prejudiced attitude towards the ability and willingness of ordinary workers to prioritise their own health. The Progress Party believes that the equal worker himself is capable of caring for his own interests at his own workplace, and we believe that the law must encourage such a process to be strengthened. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that reintroducing the tax exemption will strengthen the social profile - and that is the opposite of what the case rapporteur said - not least because workers often have the most physically aggravating jobs and will therefore often benefit from such a tax exemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e124	The rapporteur has given a clear explanation of what has taken place in the Committee. It does not prevent us from having legislation that allows 200,000 workers in the private sector to lose an important part of their social security network in the event of a long-term illness beyond one year. It is unreasonable that employees in the private sector should not have the same safety net in the case of long-term illness as those in the public sector, in particular when the employer has put in place schemes that allow it. Sickness and disability always lead to a significant loss of income, in addition to other disadvantages. As the arrangement now stands, public servants retain the right to 66 pst. of wages and salaries at the end of the sick pay period, while in the private sector there is a need to deal with the benefits of social security, no matter how good the pension scheme is. An uncertainty about the economic situation of a long-term illness is an additional burden on sick workers who are hardly particularly encouraging to get into work, rather, it may be an additional burden that can make you stay out of work. Most people at work have an economy based on the current income from full-time work. A reduction to 66 pst. is bad enough in a strenuous economy. Needless to say, getting benefits reduced over time is a disaster. That's what this case is about, and that's what you do with this Document No. The 8 proposal wants to change. The public sector has good occupational pension schemes that contribute to economic security when affected by long-term illness. We think that is excellent, but what is wrong with private employers wanting to offer something similar for their employees? This dilemma also does not answer the rapporteur or the position in his comments. I record that you claim, and so does the case rapporteur in his post, that Ot.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007, which the Stortinge treated at this time last year, did not introduce anything new and was not a tightening but a clarification of the existing law. She can do that right. But the opposition also pointed to this problem when it was dealt with last year and proposed to change it so that workers with the same schemes could receive the same benefits. Then we promoted an alternative bill. Today, we are promoting a proposal to the Government to look at this. So the rapporteur said in his statement that it would be a little strange to have to deal with this today, on 9 May, while the revised national budget is due to be presented on 15 May, and that of course it is too short a time to do something about it. Now I have not realized that it is the main argument against it, but nevertheless I have understood from the press in the last few days that neither agricultural settlement nor local economy has been fully cleared, until actually tonight, so that this relatively small case would of course not be impossible, but I understand that there are other things that are in the way. The applicant's rapporteur also rightly points out that a legislative proposal is to be made in the wake of the notification by St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, on work, well-being and inclusion, assessing the possibility of supplementing social security benefits with disability pensions from private occupational pension schemes. However, the majority also writes in the statement that they intend to follow up the proposals in the consultation note - it has been sent out a consultation note from the ministry, and it is said that they will follow up the proposals in the proposal. That really must mean, as I interpret it, that there is no intention of doing anything about this, because the consultation note does not give any indication that any change is proposed. On the contrary, the proposal to amend § 11-20, which is contained in the consultation note, will, as far as I can see, in reality deny any possibility for private enterprises to secure employee benefits in addition to the public interest in the event of long-term illness. And then it's to hope -- and I might interpret, if I'm very willing, the case rapporteur so -- that you want to take the recordings that have come to the committee during the consideration of this matter, and not least a series of recordings that are available to the hearing memo in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on the upcoming proposition, which is quite strong on this very thing. There has been a sharp public search on this from the media, from employee organisations and from employers since last summer, and it is surprising that the consultation note does not take this into account. But we can hope, as I said. I also think - I have to say it - that it is a little surprising that parties who communicate on every occasion that they are concerned with the welfare of employees do not see it as more positive that private sector employers want to contribute to the protection of their own employees for their own resources. In my world, I see it as a social good. We all remember that there has been a great deal of force in election campaigns and otherwise has been a strong fight against reduced sick pay in other contexts, a fight that I support in many ways, but then I have a little difficulty understanding this approach to illness that lasts longer than a year. And once again, I've said it a few times, I don't think the comments from the positioning parties bear the impression that you think it's urgent, but I hope the will becomes strong when this matter comes from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, because I think that will actually be quite important. The law as it is now has worked for five months. So in the summer, if there's no bill on this, people will still feel uncertain about how their economy is going after a year. I think we have a commitment to do something about this. I recommend, and take up, the proposal that we are also on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e143	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e146	This is a very good debate. It has been highlighted here by the rapporteur on both the subject matter and the justification for a part of the framework of the laws and for the rejection of the second part of the proposed document, which concerns the reintroduction of tax exemptions for the benefit of employees in terms of the employer’s coverage of the costs of treatment or health insurance. Nor has it been mentioned as a proposal in connection with the treatment we now have in Stortinget. With regard to the matter itself, it is true that we believe that, in connection with the bill submitted, there has not been a tightening, but only a clarification of the applicable law. Nevertheless, I think it is quite clear to most members of the Committee that this is a matter of discrimination against employees in the private and public sectors. Both the Minister of Finance in his letter and the President-in-Office say that there is a process going on now. A letter of consultation has been delayed until 13 March. We're going to have to make a proposition in the spring. In addition, the consideration of the opposition’s proposal in the context of the revised national budget is totally improbable and unrealistic. Then my question is whether it is not possible for the opposition in the light of the debate we have now, and the speeches that have been made, to transform this proposal into a transmission proposal, so that we go the time that is in the process of working and inclusion Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and that we take that debate. If there's still a real disagreement when the bill is presented, we'll have to take the fight instead of voting on the proposal now. In other words, I encourage the opposition to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e155	I'm going to be pretty short. In Ot.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007, the Government promoted a legislative clarification of the Occupational Pensions Act § 6-1. As others have argued, it does not imply any tightening of the conditions for the payment of a disability pension; it is merely a clarification of the applicable right. What is happening then is that after the hearing that has now taken place, the Government will provide an appropriate assessment of the possibility of supplementing social security benefits with disability pensions from private occupational pension schemes. So this is very well going on. The second point raised by the opposition relates to tax exemptions for the benefit of employees in covering the costs of treatment or health insurance by the employer. Such a tax exemption would be unfair to the many who do not receive this benefit from any employer but who have to pay such expenditure from taxed resources. In many contexts, it's talking about getting them to the benefit that needs it the most. It is not here today, nor from the Progress Party. Measures to reduce sick leave should, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be general. Such measures should benefit those who need it the most, and not primarily those who are in a negotiating position with employers. We see a number of examples of this, and it's important that the Government corrects this and ensures a greater degree of jealousy than what you can achieve in an organized market. The government is concerned with a good public health service and does not want people to have to take out private treatment insurance in order to get prompt and good medical treatment. I think it's too little noticed from the opposition. When one goes on a line where one is required to have tax-positive benefits from taking out private treatment insurance, it will over time dampen public liability for securing a public, good offer and it is not in line with this Government’s position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e168	The matter we are dealing with now is both remarkable and incomprehensible. It is not a strange and incomprehensible proposal from the Left and the Right, but an incomprehensible and strange attitude of the Government and the great crowd. Here, with open eyes, a proposal is voted down which makes it impossible to see the negative consequences of. The proposal has no implications for public budgets, but states that private employers should be given the opportunity to offer the same safety net to their employees in the event of sickness and disability as the public sector. For me and the Left, it is completely incomprehensible that the government and government parties are against this. Once again, one hides behind a very technocratic justification, that it's about clarifying the applicable law. One further argues that this will allow the Government to look at it before or later in a wider context, therefore it is not necessary today. One may allow himself to have a certain understanding that the government parties do not have the great margin of play in terms of cost-intensive proposals from the opposition, but our proposal to eliminate discrimination between private and public occupational pensions as regards access to disability pension while receiving short-term benefits from popular security has no financial or budgetary implications for the public. It is paid jointly by enterprises and employees. It is very difficult to see the political objectives of the technical legislative changes or the legal refinements made by the Government, in order to quote the main organisation of the Finance Industry. As emerged from the hearing of the Financial Committee on 31 March of this year, today’s discrimination has aroused a great deal of commitment among many. The head of the academics, Kristel Kvam, said among other things: over 50 pst. the members of the organisation were affected by today’s discrimination and the organisation is calling for a justification for today’s discrimination. Neither during the hearing, during the suspension, nor as far as I have heard today, any substantive justification for such discrimination has been put forward by the government team. We have a government that has many beautiful formulations to strengthen social rights for different groups. In this context, it is possible to correct the fact that up to 200,000 workers lose an important social safety network for disease over a year due to this discrimination. If you have income between 7 and 8 G, less than half of your previous salary will be covered, even less if your income is higher. Clearly, this will have dramatic consequences for many. As also stated in the hearing of the Financial Committee, the discrimination for one serving 12 G would amount to more than DKK 250000 per year, depending on whether an employee is in the private or public sector. Otherwise I noticed what the representative Holmås said in his post, and I waited anxiously for what the finance minister said, what would be the answer here. I also noticed that the representative Jacobsen was so positive, but that he doesn't think it's time now. I am excited about the further follow-up in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e183	I don't think there's a need for me to go through the whole story behind these questions. The rapporteur and others have been involved in this. However, we are in the situation where different principles have been established for the coordination of different performances in public schemes and in private schemes, and there is discrimination that is difficult to explain. It has its history--and there's no invention from this government-- that goes back to different governments, and can probably be traced back to that there are issues that are dealt with in different laws at different times and therefore are not viewed in context. We are now working, as many have been involved, with a proposal to be submitted to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, and I will follow up the questions raised in this proposal for a representative in this regard. I don't think it's sustainable in the long term to have such a different treatment of schemes that have a historical justification, and I don't find any good explanation for it based on today's situation. So with these signals to Stortinget, I can assure you that this is a problem that we are going to follow up and come back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e195	I always listen carefully when the foremost party against injustice is just talking about that theme, and I think that they have so far spoken well about it. The representative Holmås went quite far in wanting to solve these problems. The very setting I think might be somewhat lukewarm and a little technocratic about doing something about this. Of course, I also see the timing of the revised budget. What I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, in addition to what she has now confirmed from the Chair, is whether she can guarantee that the Ministry of Finance will follow up this matter, which, after all, is in another department, with the problems it may sometimes involve, so that we can feel sure that something is being done about the matter that has now been discussed? In that case, we will turn the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e205	I can guarantee and confirm that I will follow up this issue when we deal with the matter for which the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion is responsible. We've had questions about this at the hearing. The hearing period has expired, and a proposal has been notified to Stortingen on the matter. I believe it is natural to follow up the different treatment found on this issue, in this context. I have no opportunity to reach it to the revised national budget, to say it like that. Now this is a different treatment for which a large majority of the parties in Stortinget are responsible. I think it has occurred because there are different schemes that have been treated at different times, and so you haven't seen how this in total turns out. I can thus confirm to the representative Fleet that this is a problem that we will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e214	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e217	I took the word to comment on a few things. First to the representative Svein Flötten: If he has perceived the case rapporteur so that when the draft hearing was to come in the same state from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, then that is what we were to join, it is not in the agreement with what is the rapporteur's opinion. I was very clear that this with inequalities between private and public occupational pension schemes in this context is a real issue, where we are very open to an assessment of how we can get equal treatment. It is thus underlined, and I was inside my post several times. It is also the case that there is another issue that I think should be considered, and it is that, in the case of pension schemes under the Pension Act, they are based on the principle that benefits are defined as net benefits that are in addition to calculated and not actually paid social security benefits. I believe that there is also a basis for looking at the net/gross discussion about what is in the public occupational pension schemes, and what is under the Entrepreneurship Act. We should have a broad assessment of the question when we first deal with it. I can't see that there should be any reason why there should be such a big difference. So in public occupational pension schemes, you can get 66 pst. of up to 12 G, while in other schemes there are 66 pst. of up to 6 G. So it was tempting--but I'm going to be a little restrained, it's Friday, and it's good weather--to ask the Progress Party to read its comments in the setting of Ot.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007. I'm not going to read them here, but I have rarely experienced such broad support not only to the workline, but to what was the Government's arrangement both in relation to the fact that there should not be a disability pension when it came to rehabilitation, and partly even clearer when it was about rehabilitation. I'm not going to take it anymore, just remember the Progress Party about its close past in the spring of 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e226	I am very pleased that both representatives from SV, the Minister of Finance and also now the case rapporteur present their attendance orally in a much better way than what I have been able to read out of the written statement. It may have something to do with my perceptive powers, but it might be a good idea to find out. I can't quite get the same out of the Central Party's fiscal spokesman, but I expect and trust, of course, that the Minister of Finance and the Government will normally bring the Central Party into the fold here when she promises to deal with the matter and come back to this. Let me also add that I agree with the Minister of Finance that this has a history, but that history must not prevent us from getting good and fair solutions. Therefore, we would like to turn the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left into a transmission proposal, and I hope that it will have a good destiny in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e233	The proposal is therefore, as the representative Svein Flätten explained, converted into a transmission proposal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3246]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e251	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e260	Norwegian agriculture and food production are important both for food safety, to create employment and housing in a long-term country, to preserve the environment and biodiversity, to address both climate and environmental problems and to maintain the landscape. The increase in food shortages in the world and price increases in basic food products illustrate the importance of further developing agriculture and food production in Norway. Let me also underline the importance of agriculture in slowing down relocation and making the countryside more attractive. But then we have to renew the rural industries, and we have to create new jobs, both directly linked to food and agriculture and in other and related industries. It is therefore important that we take seriously the Riksrevision report on industrial development in agriculture. There is an overall control and constitution committee that is behind this setting. The purpose of this administrative audit has been to examine whether the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, VSP food, and the rural development funds, BU funds, are managed in line with Storting’s decisions and assumptions. The Ministry is responsible for the overall management of the objectives and results of instruments to contribute to the development of agriculture. It's not often that there's an overall increase that's behind a position on agriculture, but so we do in this case. The Committee has worked closely on the matter and has had a closed consultation with the National Auditor and also an open consultation with the Minister of Agriculture. The rural development funds, known as BU funds, and the Value Creation Programme for Food, known as the VSP food, are the key economic instruments for achieving the objectives set by the EEA in relation to agricultural economic development. Over the period 2001-2006, the size has allocated DKK 2.2 billion to these two schemes. The grants will be distributed by 1 700 million. DKK for state-owned BU funds and 500 million. kr for VSP food. The size has repeatedly adopted and expressed objectives for living agriculture with a broad approach. At the same time, Stortinget has clarified that increased investment in alternative industrial development is as necessary as more competitive volume production. The Committee would point out that the purpose of this management audit was to examine whether the instruments for industrial development are managed in line with the objectives and assumptions of the Storting. The National Audit Office’s study identifies significant weaknesses in the management of grant funds from 2001 to 2006, although positive effects and improvements are also highlighted in some areas. The National Audit Office points out clear links between the device on the BU funds and its business and social impacts. The consistently low level of grants contributes to the failure to achieve the objectives. There is also an increasing proportion of projects receiving support for the development of new goods and services, although these projects have the greatest impact on the overall objectives of increased profitability and societal benefit. The Committee is aware that the subsidy limits applicable to the majority of the period examined have been increased subsequently. It is also interesting to note that the projects which have received grants for the development of new industrial activities are those which, according to the study, achieve the best results. It may therefore seem unfortunate that subsidies to new industrial activities have decreased over the period. The study also shows that the employment effects of the BU funds and VSP food are modest, although the effects on employment and the objective of maintaining the use of agricultural land have not been reported. Nevertheless, it is positive that concrete priorities take place within a state-of-the-art partnership, which will lead to different priorities. The study shows that the subsidies also have a positive impact on development. Among other things, around half of the survey states that the BU grant has helped to increase the optimism about continuing agricultural production. It is also positive that support for projects for women and young people has increased over the period, which is in line with the objectives. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food disagrees with essential elements of the National Audit Office’s analysis and assessments of the BU resources for traditional agriculture. These views and assessments are made clear in the Ministry’s opinion, as set out in Document No. 3:5, in the Ministry's press release and in the open consultation carried out by the Committee. The Committee shares the Ministry's view that BU funds and VSP food are part of a major agricultural policy with a number of legal and economic instruments and that it is not sufficient to assess only those two schemes isolated from the other instruments in existence. However, the Committee would stress that an overall evaluation of agricultural policy was not intended for the revision and that there was a wide-ranging contact between the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the basis of the survey, before the study was started. The Committee shall display, inter alia: to an Internal Note from the Riksrevision of 27 January 2008, which reads: ‘In meeting with the senior management of the LMD and the National Audit Office, where risks and materiality in the agricultural sector were discussed, it was pointed out by the LMD that the revision of industrial development in agriculture was an area that should be given priority. In the light of this and other audit assessments, the survey of industrial development in agriculture was started.» The Committee considers that it is possible to evaluate the BU resources and the VSP food without evaluating the overall agricultural policy and considers that the report of the Riksrevision provides a complementary picture of how the scheme is managed and operated. The national audit identifies challenges related to measuring the effects and results of the BU funds and VSP food. Therefore, it is positive that the Riksrevision will follow up with new studies to assess the longer-term impact of the use of the instrument. The Ministry also points out that the BU funds have not been evaluated up to now, and that this administrative audit is an opportunity to improve the use of instruments. The Committee further points out that in a press release of 15 January 2008, the Council of State indicated that it wanted a broad and comprehensive evaluation of the BU funds. Let me also point out that the Minister of Agriculture and Food at the hearing signalled that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food wants to improve and differentiate the target management for industrial development in agricultural production and new activities respectively. The Committee welcomes this in its opinion. Furthermore, the Committee considers that it is necessary for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to follow up this study, so that the subsidy is managed as far as possible in line with the objectives and assumptions set for the instruments. We point out the need to develop better tools for target management and reporting and assume that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will give this high priority in the future. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will carry out a broader and comprehensive evaluation of the instruments of economic development of agriculture and assumes that the mechanism of the instruments is adjusted to ensure better achievement of the objectives. The Committee would also point out the need to carry out a larger and wider administrative audit of Norwegian agricultural policy and address this with great interest. In conclusion, let me point out that the Committee notes something unusual in that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food chose to distribute a press release at the press conference when the Riksrevision report was published, with strong criticism of the Riksrevision study. The Committee would point out the unfortunateness of a revised establishment presenting public criticism and polemics of the Riksrevisions report on a case to be handed over to the Stortinget. The National Audit Office is an independent body that assists the Storting in the control of the administration. The revised establishment has had ample opportunity through the preparation of the report to make its views known, which is also reflected in this report. The Committee would stress that the deepening of views of the Ministry should take place in the context of the examination of the Committee. The Committee would also point out that, in response to criticism from the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Auditor submits to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee an internal note from a department of the National Audit Office. The Committee stresses in its opinion that this type of procedure, both from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and from the National Audit Office, is foreign to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e320	Of course, I agree with the Committee's comments and unanimous vote. When I ask for the floor for a brief comment, it is to say a little bit about the more industrial policy aspects of this and the importance of the instruments of economic development for the development of agriculture and our rural areas. It also refers to the mention by the previous Business Committee of the need for increased focus on business development in order to promote entrepreneurship and innovation. Agricultural assets represent a diversity of resources, both human and material. It's important that we exploit them to create profitable activity. Building development funds and the Value Creation Programme for Food are key economic instruments in this way. It is worth noting, then, the findings of the National Audit Office, which show that the use of BU funds for innovation activities in the edge zone of traditional agriculture, as well as for women’s and young people’s actions, has had good business-economy effects. Logically, the results are getting better the stronger the bet is. In a large number of agricultural municipalities, the creation of employment and income opportunities in the peripheral zone of traditional agriculture has been a high priority over time. These are jobs which at least compensate for the departure we have in agriculture and which contribute to a differentiated economic structure in the countryside. It is therefore very gratifying to see evidence that this effort is effective. I also believe that it is important to bear in mind that this initiative, which in many districts has the character of being a long-term conversion work, requires that one also has a long-term perspective on incentives and economic instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e331	Just a brief comment from my side. Of course, the party of progress is fully behind the Committee's position, which is unanimous. We believe that the Committee on this matter points to a number of important points. I can also join 100 pst. to the statements made by the rapporteur. That is why I should not go into the matter in detail. However, it is important to clarify that when granting this type of government grant, a continuous and thorough evaluation of how these funds are spent and where they have the most impact on the money. As this report shows, they have had a good impact on new industries in agriculture. The Progress Party believes it is important that funds from the agricultural agreement be used for the kind of development of new niche products and new types of industries in agriculture. It is also important to clarify that the Minister of Agriculture has not been willing to carry out an evaluation of the results achieved with the funds from the agricultural agreement. Obviously, when you spend $12 billion in public tax dollars on an industry, you have to have a conscious relationship with how these funds are used. In the past, I have mentioned with the Minister of Agriculture here in Stortinget whether he will carry out a thorough evaluation of the use of the funds from the agricultural agreement. So far, the Minister of Agriculture has shown no interest in it. Therefore, I have noticed that a unanimous control and constitution committee in the position gives the Council of State what I perceive is a job, in carrying out a thorough administrative audit of the entire agricultural agreement and how it turns out in relation to the use of instruments. So if the Council of State is going to take the floor in this debate, I think he should consider how he intends to carry out this task which I believe the Committee has given the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e340	Agriculture in Norway shall produce food that is safe and healthy, ensure food supply, maintain the cultural landscape and contribute to housing and employment throughout the country. Agriculture also plays an important role in industries such as tourism, culture and the food industry. The aim is to maintain a living agriculture throughout Norway. In St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, On Norwegian agriculture and food production, where the key objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy are described, emphasis is placed on facilitating overall industrial development in rural areas by strengthening the basis for a comprehensive and profitable business life. The building development funds, the BU funds, and the Value Creation Programme for Food, the VSP food, are the key economic instruments for achieving the objectives of agricultural industrial development. As from 1992, BU funds have been allocated to provide a basis for new and profitable industrial development in the agricultural sector and contribute to decentralised housing. Both the development of new goods and services, new industries and the development of traditional agricultural production are eligible. DKr 2.2 billion has been allocated in BU grants for the period 2001-2006, and the state-owned BU funds managed by Innovation Norway represent the largest share of DKr 1.7 billion. VSP food was started in 2001 and has a duration of 10 years. The aim of the Programme is to enhance value creation by stimulating the production of food based on market opportunities and consumer needs. The main purpose of this revision, as underlined by the case-rapporteur, has been to examine whether the results of VSP food and the state-of-the-art BU funds managed by Innovation Norway are in line with Storting’s decisions and assumptions. There are three main issues examined: Does Innovation Norway manage the instruments in line with the assumptions? Are the economic instruments contributing to the long-term increase in business profitability and societal benefit? How does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take overall responsibility for the two instruments? The National Audit Office’s study points to what is claimed to be weaknesses in the Ministry’s management and performance reporting of the BU funds and VSP food. According to the Riksrevision, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not provided adequate governance, and there is a lack of overview of the results and effects of the resources for the development of agriculture. For VSP food, there is also insufficient information on the contribution to the profitability development of businesses and primary producers, which is an important objective of the programme. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food disagrees with essential parts of the Riksrevision's analysis and assessments when it comes primarily to the BU resources for traditional agriculture. For this reason, I would like to stress the positive fact that the entire Committee agrees with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that the BU funds and the VSP food are part of a larger agricultural policy with a number of legal and economic instruments. This means that to see the whole of agricultural policy, it is not sufficient to consider only these two schemes isolated from the other existing instruments. It's an overall committee that agrees, which is also important. The size has repeatedly adopted and expressed objectives for living agriculture with a broad approach. At the same time, Stortinget has clarified that increased investment in alternative industrial development is as necessary as more competitive volume production. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has signaled that he wants a broad and comprehensive evaluation of the BU funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e367	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e370	I didn't draw on the ordinary list of speakers, because I had looked forward to hearing the statements of the Council of State first. There is a unanimous committee behind this setting. In the setting, a unanimous committee addresses a relatively unusual criticism, to the Stortinget to be, against the Council of State. It is said that the Council of State, i.e. The ministry's procedure is Stortinget alien. As the rapporteur also said, it is to pursue polemics against the Riksrevision after the Riksrevision promotes its final position towards Stortinget, a somewhat unusual form of work, to say the least. The departments have the opportunity to present their views to the National Audit Office both at the beginning of the project and at the time of the provisional suspension. So the ministry has every opportunity to present its views to the National Audit Office along the way. But when the final position is promoted towards Stortinget, it is the matter of Stortingen. I therefore call for the views of the Council of State on the criticisms made, both in terms of the procedure, procedure and behaviour of the department. On a general basis, let me say that the problem with the Riksrevision reports is not that they do not get unanimous support in the Stortinget, because it usually gets them, but that the Council of State does not care about the conclusions. It has not been long since we in this Chamber had a rather unanimous criticism of a lack of respect for the rules on tenders. It was not a press agency that wrote about that debate. Since then, it has received some more publicity, to say it carefully, because the press has begun to take an interest in the fact that it does not care about using either the procurement protocol or the tendering rules and the legal provisions. I'm using this opportunity to challenge the council to comment on the setting and tell them how he'll behave in the future on the basis of this unanimous setting, because that's what's interesting - that's what in another language will be called improvement potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e384	I perceive that there are two main things that are being commented on in relation to criticism about this. One relates to the content of the case relating to the use of BU funds against traditional agriculture. The second goes specifically to the representative Foss mentioned in relation to the distribution of press releases in connection with the National Audit Office's press conference. To the end, it is just to say that of course I relate to what the case rapporteur clearly referred to from the Storting's position. I can assure the Storting that to the extent that there will be a new press conference on matters related to the Riksrevision's work against the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, there will be no distribution of press releases in connection with similar events. In terms of content, and what I have also presented in consultation with the Committee, where I have made a comment that it is true that the evaluation of the use of BU funds, which has been otherwise evaluated in practice during the previous government period, does not result in this correctness, solely on the basis of the number of new annual works established in an industry where the take-off has been annual from 3 to 6 p.m., gives a too narrow picture of the impact of the type of means. We'll see now, for example. in the most labour-intensive part of Norwegian agriculture, milk production, significant investments in milk robot efficiency are made. There are investments that, in isolation, do not contribute to an increase in the performance of each individual use, but in many cases it contributes to a desire for higher hourly payments, for the labour input of each individual use is significantly reduced, and the owner/user may choose to spend that time on other tasks either on the farm or outside the farm. Therefore, I believe that in traditional agriculture, the achievement of the target must be seen in relation to that aspect. That's something I've talked to the committee, and that's something I'm standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e394	In my previous post, I asked the Council of State to comment on what I consider to be a task of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Let me quote from the setting, the last paragraph: ‘The Committee will also highlight the need to carry out a larger and wider administrative audit of Norwegian agricultural policy and address this with great interest.’ I think you should be relatively arrogant on the part of the Government if you don't take such a note from a unanimous control and constitution committee seriously. I would ask that the Council of State now, when he has the opportunity, comment on this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e405	Let me just make it clear to the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that administrative audits are not carried out by the Ministry but by the National Audit Office. What we have asked for is for the Riksrevision to look at the whole of agricultural policy. We have received assurances from the National Audit Office that they are doing such work, and we have been confirmed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that they are also positive that such an administrative audit of agriculture is being carried out. That means that we have asked for this, and the Riksrevision will at the appropriate time return to the Stortinget with a larger administrative audit that I of course require, in the usual way, that the Ministry of Agriculture contributes, so that this revision of the overall agricultural policy is as precise as possible and as precise as possible. With regard to the small exchange which has been linked to the conduct of a Council of State and a department in connection with the reports of the Riksrevision, there is no doubt that an overall committee has precisely expressed the surprise that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, when presenting this report, has probably gone a little too far in relation to the situation of the Storting. The Riksrevision is an independent body during Stortinget. To the extent that a Council of State or a department disagrees with the report of the Riksrevision, it is natural that it is linked to the treatment of the Stortinge, not to the submission of the Riksrevision. I think that through what Stortinget has unanimously written in this setting, this message has been received by the Government, so we're probably not going to experience this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e416	First of all, I believe that there was a useful cleaning up of the case rapporteur in relation to different types of evaluation and audit to be carried out. As for the position of the Committee, that a desire for a broader review and a wider evaluation of the use of BU funds, it is a work that I am in the process of starting up. I have an ambition to get better performance indicators in place, so that we will be able to see in the future what this is all about, how we can see in better ways than today the effects of the means used to create new jobs in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e423	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3247]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e439	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e448	It has been exciting to be the case-rapporteur for the Left’s proposal for a five-year general teacher training. Many have opinions about this, and it involves teachers, teachers, and teachers. One in general teacher training here in Oslo told me that her students often asked why their education was so often debated by us politicians. This is because teacher training is one of the most important education we have, and the teaching profession is one of the most important professions. The Left's proposal for a five-year general teacher training has been supported only by the Progress Party. They will explain their positions. Most of the signals I have received in connection with this proposal for a representative are that the introduction of a five-year general teacher training is the way to go. But a change in the number of years does not occur overnight. The signals have been clear that we need to know what content we want, and what we might want more of. It's not useful with an extra year of what we have today, if that's not good enough. Earlier this year, Gunnar Gundersen’s representative had an interview where teacher training was widely debated. Also, there were views on whether or not to have a five-year general education. The majority of the Committee considers that the issue of a five-year general teacher training cannot be dealt with as a single measure. It's important with totality and long-termity. The five parties which do not support the proposals of the Left have a common approach to this, that an improvement in the four-year general teacher training already available can be a solution. But no one closes the door for general teacher training to be five years old once in the future. I believe that there are a number of improvement points in today's general teacher training, but the left starts at the wrong end. We cannot conclude until we know what the fifth year should contain. The left has a slight approach to the challenges facing general teacher training. I have seen it so that the representative Dørum is impatient. That's all right, but expanding without knowing exactly what's needed for me is going to be wrong for me. I don't think all of the 29 institutions for general teacher education are ready to start a five-year education right away. It takes time to build a professional environment at master level. Let me deal with some of the challenges I think general education is facing. Many teachers fall from the middle of the race, and we don't know why. Do we know if practical training is good enough for all institutions? Is practice necessarily something more important, or is quality more important than quantity? The period of practice is very different from institution to institution; it is the first time the student is in primary school, school takeover and exchange between practical school and institution. We have challenges in getting the very best of them to choose to become teachers. In the last three years, there has been a slight decrease in the number of applicants for general teacher training. In the same period it was approx. Seven hundred people who had general teacher education as their first choice, despite a small increase in the number of places of study. The teaching profession is of the professions where at least scientific literature is read after completion of education. Teachers do not update on new learning methods and on research results. Then there have appeared a number of questions to me that the Left has not taken a decision on - not the Progress Party either, for that matter. There are questions like: are we going to be able to choose between a three-year general teacher training and a five-year general teacher training? Should you be able to work as a teacher at school after a three-year general education? Are you going to have to apply to the master's degree after completion of bachelor's education? What are they going to do with a bachelor degree? Are we going to have a system where you add an extra year to the general teacher training we have today, so it's going to be four years plus one year? Should the extra year be just more practice? Are we going to facilitate specialisation in the field of science or within the level, or are we going to have a combination of this? If we want teachers specializing in a level, should this specialisation be directed towards a single step, towards the general or towards the general childhood? If we want teachers who specialize in subjects, how many subjects are they going to specialize in? I hope that the Left and the Advance Party will be able to clarify their positions on these issues. I look forward to the presentation to the Stortinget of the paper on general teacher training and to a further discussion on this education. During the examination of the proposal for a representative, the Left presented a new proposal, supported by the rest of the opposition. The proposal is based on ‘as close as possible to review the framework for general teacher training in order to ensure that it is up-to-date with the Knowledge Lift’. I believe that this proposal must also be discussed in the context of the handling of the notification. We have to see everything together, and we have to do that in dealing with the big message that will be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e484	The general teacher training was probably given a shot at the bow when in 2006 NOKUT gave it something similar to a smack act. It's serious. Although all educational institutions have put in place targeted measures to improve general teacher training, it is difficult to close their eyes in order for this training to require a basic upgrade. General teacher training needs more than a paint strip in order to appear to be sufficiently improved. The Progress Party believes that a total renovation is necessary. This means that you need to review the content of your education. One must focus on professional immersion, management and parental cooperation, ensure pedagogical and didactic education and make education more practical. The party of progress is amazed at the fact that government parties do not take this challenge seriously. So it's been two years since the NOCUT evaluation showed us frightening results, and there's no national action taken to improve the situation. The government parties are still sitting on the fence and are waiting for a future big message, as the rapporteur explained. The development of a five-year teacher training course with increased professional depression is not an easy solution to a complex problem. There is a concrete start to a process that will result in a general teacher education that is complex in a completely different way and ends in a five-year cycle. It is quite frustrating that government parties clearly state that it is ‘lowly appropriate’ to treat the reform of general teacher training as a proposal for a representative. It is simply an expression of a lack of respect for the Storting's only way of initiating matters when the Government fails to present something better. If the government parties could point to concrete action - they have no desire for improvement and extension of general teacher training - then a view of that kind of statement with a certain credibility could be given. But there is nothing to suggest that neither the Government nor its parties on the Stortinget are taking the challenge seriously. They are currently most concerned about finding excuses for not doing anything. In any case, it does not provide better general teacher training. There is no disagreement between the Progress Party and the Left, which supports the proposal, that an additional year in itself will not lead to better general teacher training. But then it is also pointless to present it as if that is what the proposal is all about. The proposal is based on a concrete start that will end with a five-year education - of course with a total content reform. The opposition stands together on a proposal for a review of the general teacher training framework to ensure that it is up to date with the Knowledge Lift. When the government parties in the setting say that they are engaged in ensuring general teacher training both in the short and long term, but will not participate in such a review, it is clear that the involvement of the government parties is only staffing - nothing more. What measures have the Government and its major parties taken to ensure the quality of general teacher training in the short term? The only thing that has been done is that you have debated the challenges in an interpellation. It is a tragic poor follow-up of one's own intentions, to say it carefully, which should be done in this room. I am genuinely concerned about the recruitment of general teacher training. It keeps sinking. I'm concerned that the majority in this room have taken the unusual thing to talk about problems, difficulties and challenges, but not acting to improve. I'm afraid we're losing important time. It will affect the children who go to school, while we have democratic power in this house. I don't like it. I don't like an action lamb majority, either in this or in other areas. The proposals in this matter will be addressed by the Left later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e505	It is good that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss general teacher training even before the Storing message comes around the turn of the year. Many of us believe that it is a long time to wait, and then we would like to have a debate in the meantime. The debate on teacher training has improved since the NOCUT evaluation came in September 2006, with good reason. The evaluation gives clear information that general teacher training needs more of everything - more of all, more of it, more of it, more of it, more of it, more of it, more of it, more of it, and not least more of it. The institutions are also clearly told to take a greater responsibility, perhaps especially for the quality and for the lack of students. There are some colleges that present numbers up to 51 pst. failure of general teacher students. It's not durable. The evaluation also made clear that more practical corrections need to be made and not just practical corrections, but more relevant practical corrections of education. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the debate on general teacher training must start at the right end. In the opinion of the Right, the correct end will be to discuss the content of general teacher training. Then we have to sum it up and figure out if we're going to have a four-year or five-year education. There aren't many decades since we had a two-year general education, we got a three-year-old and then a four-year-old. If you are going to take a sloppy look at general teacher training in 2008, there are many disturbing signs. There has been a halve of teaching time since the 1990s. Today it is only 12-14 hours of compulsory education every week. There are fewer mandatory themes now than before, and no obligation for students to be present. Many educational institutions feel, on the contrary, that they have an obligation to state their reasons separately if something is mandatory. Only 45 pst. conducts the general teacher’s study in a normal time, i.e. that there are a lot of people who spend longer. We have a challenge to upgrade both quality and labour. At the University of Oslo, a study was carried out not long ago to monitor how the general teachers at the University of Oslo worked. It is no exaggeration to say that the study intensity was not particularly high. ==References== 20 pst. students study less than 20 hours a week, and on average they study 24 hours a week. It is necessary to impose stricter requirements on students both on presence and on labour input. There are many who, in my opinion - rightly - claim that before we discuss whether to do general school education at five years of age, we must make it become a four-year-old. Today, the reality is that general teacher training is actually three years old. We need to create a culture of learning in general teacher education and a culture of leadership. I think it is great that the Municipality of Oslo offers newly trained teachers a 50-hour class management course, among others. That's good, but at the same time it tells us something about what's one of the major shortcomings of general teacher education today. Strictly speaking, it should not have been necessary, but it is a good step, which gives Oslo good teachers. The proposal on which the entire opposition stands together is, in my view, a very important point. When the new framework plan for general teacher training came in 2003, the knowledge promise was not yet planned - indeed, it was planned, but it was at least not finished. And all that the Knowledge Promise deals with is class management, basic skills, assessment skills, and requirements for both students and teachers, is not caught up in the framework plan that is now in force. For example, it says nothing about basic skills and management, and it says very little about the follow-up, student assessment and follow-up of learning outcomes. It is therefore important that, pending a new general teacher training course, we be able to do the training that exists today, as best we can, in order to offer our children the best teachers possible in the future. That's why I really encourage the government parties to think about one more time considering whether they can't support the point that's about a review of the framework plans. I think it takes more than a big message at the turn of the year to change the culture of the general teacher training institutions, simply because we have seen that the new education we received in 2004 has not been taken sufficiently seriously by the institutions. It does not just have to believe that a big message will change the culture of the institutions. I think we need a stronger culture of learning from teacher training institutions, and I hope that today's debate and the debates we are going to have in the future can contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e528	I agree with the case-speaker's comments and would like to thank her for a good work in the committee. In SV we are very pleased with the big message that comes to us during the fall. We are very pleased that the department has started the follow-up to the NOKUT evaluation at the right end. The ministry has put an unlikely amount of work into the dialogue and follow-up of individual institutions. It sounds as if the opposition has a tendency to forget that the evaluation of NOCUT points to the vast majority of follow-up measures for individual institutions. The smaller number of amendments proposed in the report were national measures. This is why it is so unlikely that the Ministry of Knowledge has put so much effort into following up individual institutions. The institutions are asked to make plans for a follow-up to the evaluation, and they are asked to report annually. We have the impression that the dialogue between the department and the institutions is good. It's in our opinion good governance, and it's starting this discussion at the right end. Then the department has taken national action. These include: Set of 40 million. kr in the current year's budget for various measures and for a quality improvement in teacher training. So it's not that one has not taken national action, but one has done the most important thing first: to follow up the institutions. Every single day, there is work on these institutions that is about educating teachers for the future. It sounds like the opposition doesn't care at all. I believe that the reason why teacher training has such a big political debate is that we're so busy with teachers. We're as busy with teachers as the most important resource in school, and we're so busy that education is going to be good enough. And it's a huge paradox in Norwegian education history that this is an education that is exposed to a lot of reforms. I do not doubt the good intentions of the Left when they make proposals in relation to the teacher reform, when they come forward with proposals that they did not get through when they put themselves in government. The last time general teacher training was reformed, so left in government. But the problem is that, with the good intentions of the Left, a Right Party and the Advance Party are included in the purchase, and it is essential in this debate where we are therefore discussing future teachers. The committee leader said to Dagbladet on 6 January: ‘The Red-Green Minister of Education of the day is the 15th in a row of red-green contributors, who have been involved since the war to create the crisis in which the school is now located.’ I would like to refer to a central party election of progress, Sylvi Listhaug, who said to Dagbladet on 21 January this year: ‘It needs to be much easier to kick teachers. Today the school is a protected enterprise." Further: ‘We must put an end to the fact that these teachers have a blank mandate to destroy people’s future.’ This combination is amazing. So the ball is in crisis, and it's the teacher's fault. What kind of political outburst is the opposition willing to send? Then the Left is seen in the shadow of those who are future partners on the civil side. I want to distance myself from the characteristic that the Norwegian school is in crisis. There is an unlikely amount of good learning every day in the Norwegian school. Most people learn what to do because they have good, competent, committed teachers. They also scor well on international investigations when it comes to matters that are important, for example: English and social understanding. We have a main challenge in Norwegian school, and it's that there's too many people who don't learn what they need to learn. Even if the majority learn what to do, there are too many people who don't learn what they need in order to survive in working and social life. And the biggest challenge is that what one actually learns in the Norwegian school, it's related to social background. But we can't sit on the Storting saying it's the teachers' fault. What kind of political outburst is that? And how, then, when one is a representative of the same party, is it possible to wonder that recruitment to general teacher training is going down, when that is the political message that we want to send? It doesn't want SV, it doesn't want the majority. But we can't fight the opposition, who wants to send that message to future teachers. I believe that the committee leader is also taking up a rhetorical point with regard to the fact that it was not the previous reform of 2003 that was wrong, but the follow-up of the institutions. Well, it's either the teachers' fault, or it's the teacher's fault. We have a political responsibility to make sure that the content is good enough, and I'm unlikely to be happy that the department has started at the right end, starting at the end where one is in dialogue with the institutions. And then we are very happy to get that message. Then we're going to discuss the whole thing, also considering the national measures that we're now necessarily taking. There's a lot of people involved in this field, and we're very happy with the dialogue that we have with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e567	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have not yet taken a stand on the concrete proposal contained in this proposal to extend teacher training to five years. We will also refer to the forthcoming report on teacher training and will await it before we take a final position on the proposal. At the same time, I would like to stress that this does not mean that we want to put the content of teacher training on hold. It may be necessary to initiate individual measures while waiting to deal with the staging message. I would like to stress that, in order to improve teacher training, it will not be enough just to expand teacher training. Often it is seen as a solution in school, the last time in the state budget for 2008, where the government added extra hours to primary school for the smallest students. We disagreed, and suggested using the same means to employ more teachers in school, teachers who are present at the same time. I believe that the most important thing to improve the school is to look at the content, as well as the four-year teacher training we have today. If we're going to fill up with an extra year, we're going to have to have a clear formation about what we're going to fill that year with. A fifth year must mean strengthening the steps we choose to take in order to improve four-year teacher training. Only when we have that starting point will it be fruitful to discuss a fifth year. We may have to have more practice, like a whole year of practice, but we need to figure out what we want before we decide to expand. One of the main points of the evaluation was the need to better link theory and practice. It is a fact that many newly educated teachers feel insecure in the classroom situation. One talks about the great practice that some newly-trained teachers experience when they're going to be in the classroom for the first time on their own. That is why the Christian People’s Party has proposed the introduction of a mentoring system for newly educated teachers. In concrete terms, all newly-trained teachers should be linked to an experienced teacher in the first year of work. Together with this mentor, they will be able to discuss different issues and the mentor will also be able to assist in teaching. I think it's possible to find different models of how to do this in any five years. So we're open to evaluating a fifth year when that time comes. I would like to raise two issues that I have mentioned to the Council of State in the past. The Christian People's Party is committed to general teacher training - that is, to all subjects. Is it not the Council of State that is concerned when the University of Stavanger plans to remove music education from general teacher education - music, which is an incredibly important subject and which is also an important activity in all subjects? It should be unnecessary in this room to argue for music in primary school. It's a very important part of the formation of children. I would like one to include in the big message - that all the subjects must be involved in order for it to be a general teacher training. Another element is that lecturers in high school serve more than teachers in teacher education. Yes, there are wage negotiations that decide such things, and yes, it is possible for universities and universities to pay higher wages to their employees. But it is nevertheless a fact that those who are going to train our teachers earn less than those who teach. What kind of a signal is it when there is a desire for high quality teacher training? One must in any case relate to the fact that one should look at the whole of the teacher's education. Finally, not everyone fits to be a primary school teacher, even though they qualify for admission, even though strict requirements are imposed on mathematics and English. I have had the pleasure of recruiting several hundred teachers in my youth - in a project where we interviewed all the candidates. They may have all the formal qualifications to be admitted to teacher training, but equally lacking in what is needed to be good mediators, what is needed for learning in children. It is therefore important that teacher training also give important signals to those taking this training, that they should test whether they are appropriate to the teaching process. It would be awful to have to go for five years before you find out if you fit the teaching profession, and even worse to practice in school for many years if you don't fit. Before it was said that it was difficult to get into the teacher's school - and that was the case for a few years - but it was easy to get out. I am very concerned that professional requirements should be imposed when entering and when an examination is taken out - but suitability must be an important element of general teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e589	In the proposal, the proposers refer to the recent debate on the quality of Norwegian school and Norwegian general teacher training. In particular, this debate has been updated through the results received by Norwegian students in the PISA and PIRLS international monitoring projects. The results show that Norway is below the average in several OECD countries. I'm going to be the first to admit that we could better be on that list -- but at the same time I notice that I want to ask what it is that is not being measured in these studies. They asked, for example: not whether the students could learn about their cultural background, whether they had knowledge of democracy development and understanding of society. It was also not stressed whether the students could cooperate etc. We have to wake up a little bit in this debate to make the school worse than it is. I also think this actually has something to do with recruiting for the teaching profession. The proposers also mention that it is essential that Norwegian general teacher education is of high quality, that teachers form the support pillar of the school as a social institution, and that the competence of teachers is crucial for the learning of students. This is not difficult to be completely, completely agreeing. We all have good or bad learning experiences, not to say learning experiences from school. Emphasizing the role of the teacher is very important. So a little bit about NOKUT: I think it's important to notice that something pretty much pointed directly at the teacher's institutions. Not so much went to the national school, it went directly to each teacher's school. They came up with 129 specific advice, and 123 of them were directed directly to the institutions. The main follow-up work therefore needs to be undertaken by the institutions, together with their partners. The evaluation points to challenges that directly interact with each other. It addresses management and organisational challenges and professional challenges, such as: professional aspects, professional knowledge and the interaction between professional studies, pedagogical theory and practice. Following the coming of the evaluation report, the Ministry of Knowledge has been concerned with the evaluations, weaknesses and recommendations addressed by the evaluation. They've also done something about it. All institutions are required to establish a follow-up plan and report annually to the Ministry on the implementation of measures in all areas where the panel found weaknesses. I think it's important to be aware that it's actually like this. In the debate, I hear that nothing is happening in this area, nothing is happening in the area of teacher training. But, as I have tried to say, there are actually several concrete actions that have been initiated: On the 2008 state budget, it has been set by approx. Forty million. to various measures aimed at strengthening teacher training and giving new knowledge of teacher training. The research programme Practice-oriented R & D for kindergarten, initial and teacher training is also under way. We have introduced the programme Guidance for newly-trained teachers.We have a project with new models of teacher training for primary school at the Telemark College and at the Vestfold High School. I would like to mention something about the representative Tørresdal, namely suitability. I fully agree with what she said, and I know that it is especially thought of in the attempt in Westfold. I think it's very important that you not only think about grades, but think about fitness as well. KD also supports a research project at the University of Stavanger to identify and evaluate different selection methods for admission to teacher training in order to gain more knowledge of the motivation of the students for the teaching study and reasons for non-response. It must also be very interesting given the high drop-out that is also at the teacher's schools. All of this is going to be a very good experience to have with you in view of the upcoming big message about teacher training. It would also be right in that context to take up the length of education. It may end in five years, but the point is that we don't need more of the same in teacher training. The NOKUT report has proved that teacher training is a complex area, and we need to see everything together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e620	In my meeting with political youth organisations exactly 48 years ago, I learned the following, I was in the Young Right: Take a debate technique where you attack an opponent by assigning the opponent a position whose madness everyone can understand -- shoot it down. To do it personally - that was one of the reasons why I chose neither the AUF nor the Young Right at that time. I think you should relate to what you stand for. And the Left Party and the Advance Party are united in one of the two proposals, is simply that one should have ambitions for a teacher's education, demands for a subject, pedagogics and practice. Of course, that doesn't mean that what we're dealing with, we're just going to banalize by saying that we're going to put something on top of something -- we have to be taken seriously in what we're saying. We need to be taken seriously with regard to the advice that we have all received from NOKUT, that we should do this. That's what the NOCUT sums up. Everyone who has been in education knows that in order to be good you need weight in the subject, you need weight in the education, and you need weight in the exercise. If you add it, it'll be the five years. Everyone knows that those countries around us that have teachers with great status, like Finland, have kept that line for 40 years. In this room, there is even scope to again problematise the concept of ‘knowledge’ from part of the government parties. I almost don't think my own ears when I hear it. That concept I actually thought we had conquered back, that we're proud of knowledge, and we don't let it float into the impossible word 'competence', which you don't know what it means -- you don't know where it starts, you don't know where it ends. Knowledge has been reconquered--I thought it said there. The ambition of the left is that we should have an education that builds status. We don't have the status of an education when the applicant figures go down. This year, they have declined in general teacher training, vocational training and the five-year training cycle. According to the newspaper Our Country, it's halved, so we now have almost as few applicants as we have places. And then we know that by far 50 pst. further falls on the road through education and on the road into practice. It's the acute crisis. In this situation, those with the shoes - the Education Association, the Student Organisation and others, and all the teacher organisations in Europe - say that you should outline ambitions for the future, you have to go for the five-year course. And then it's not that we can go and buy that race at IKEA and almost install it tomorrow. There's going to be a banalization beyond the hopeless in the staging room, when someone thinks that some of us with significant general education should say something so stupid. We set an ambition-- and we see that we have to figure it out, we realize that it's going to have to go a race to deliver it, and we see that it takes time. Reforms in Norway take time. But you put the ambition first. The fact that you meet representatives of red-green parties who speak almost like a parody of conservative parties from the last century is a strong experience. If you become so oblivious, you can wonder where in the world it was that they got counted in politics. Is it gone on the way? It's almost like the head of the expedition in a department that's supposed to warn a government council not to be out of control at the next budget conference. You shouldn't talk like that if you believe in anything. I allow myself to be so free. It's a little depressing that this is age-independent -- so you can't think about it either. But you have to believe something, you have to want something. Olof Palme said, politics is wild. It's clear what the Left wants, it's clear what the Left and the Advance Party wants: we want an ambition that enhances science, pedagogics and practice. It takes time, and it requires a reform. Who's in on this? That is what I have said, NOKUT has recommended it after summing up all the points that the representative Inger Enger raised, the Education Association stands for it and the Student Organisation stands for it. We have a large width out in the field - out there among those who wear the shoe. The most acute thing, apart from the lack of recruitment, is when the country's largest school owner, Astrid Søgnen, in Oslo, meets the committee and sees us into the White Eye and says that now we expect those who graduate, can the Knowledge promise, in the sense that they can meet the skill requirements of the Knowledge promise and know how to deal with small and large children who are going to strive to achieve this. We expect that. We expect this to be reviewed, we expect the study specialisations to be reviewed, and we expect the students there to be followed up. So it says the country's largest school owner, who has achieved quite significant results under the political leadership we have been subjected to - not from the government parties, but from the Left and the Right over the last seven to eight years. In the Bondevik II government, we agreed to start work on the promise of knowledge, and we continue to do so as a political party. It's joyful, as an old Left-Representative, almost to challenge a red-green coalition by saying that I think they're dwashed in the course, have no ambitions, are not proud of knowledge, will not do anything with the school--they're trying almost to say they want anything else, and that we, the Progress Party and the Left, will do it overnight. It was a really pointless description, but there won't be any speed in a debate without it being temperature and agitation. That's what I came to when I chose away the AUF and the Young Right, that the power of agitation is based on that you want something. And then I'm going to deal with the suggestions. 1 and 2, the first proposal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, and the second on behalf of the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e648	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e651	My respect for knowledge is very great, and I'm working on providing the concept of content every day. A good teacher provides the basis for the lifelong learning of individual children and young people. That's why we need skilled, knowledge-rich and motivated teachers. Teachers are faced with changing demands in line with society’s changes and reforms in school. In the announced announcement, which the Ministry of Knowledge is working hard on, every day, we will place great emphasis on analysing the role of teachers and clarifying the expectations of the school, which teachers must meet. Teacher training must also be organised so that the teachers we are training today also function in school as we see it in ten, twenty or thirty years. There are a number of different quality-enhancing interventions that need to be considered in order to strengthen Norwegian teacher education. Some measures will be necessary in the short term; others will be of a longer-term nature. Action areas need to be seen in a coherent way, in order to reinforce each other. The Committee's attitude shows that the issue of extending general teacher training cannot be seen as an isolated measure. Improvements in teacher training can be made both within a four-year model, with increased emphasis on guidance in the first year of the profession and in the event of an extension of five years. The forthcoming Single European Act will provide a good opportunity to discuss both the range of actions and the overall objectives and principles underlying the further development of Norwegian teacher training. The position we have received today from the Committee ensures that we will come forward with good, long-term solutions in the communication. NOW’S evaluation has provided us with a better knowledge base for further development of teacher training, and we started working on it from the day one after it had arrived. Many of the same challenges as NOCUT have identified are also found in studies conducted by teacher training in other countries. We have gradually also received more international and Norwegian research in this area. Research shows that, in addition to the academic competence of teachers, the pedagogical competence is also important for the pupils’ learning outcomes. The aim of any change in the structure and content of current teacher training must be to strengthen both professional and professional aspects of the teaching role. The government has taken a step on the way to the impact of NOKUT’s evaluation by introducing reinforced demands for the addition of teachers in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English at the youth level. However, new knowledge demonstrates that the need for teacher competence is not the same at all levels and in all primary education subjects. It is therefore necessary to assess a more differentiated teacher training, which focuses on professional, vocational, pedagogical and practical teaching at school. There also appears to be a need to give the educational profession a new content and a new and more coherent role in education. More than today, the profession must be able to address practical, educational and professional challenges that teachers face in everyday life. With the support of the Ministry of Knowledge, work has been started on the pedagogical subject in the professional environments. It is also necessary to consider whether it is necessary to give stronger central guidance to the structure of training in order to provide it with a more holistic professional device. In this assessment, we need to look at Norwegian universities that have gained good experience in different types of organisation of education and practical training. We have many good examples, including in the NOCUT report, of teacher training that is development-oriented and of good quality. Many suggest that an exploratory and development-oriented approach should have a greater impact on both professional and educational performance. Teacher students must be involved in R & D work and tasks combining theoretical knowledge and experience from practice. The individual teacher, principal and teacher must have the will and ability to re-use knowledge of their daily activities and contribute to school development. This presupposes that we have a research-based teacher training. Professional staff in teacher training need a level of professional competence. In addition, there must be a clear prioritisation in the institutions of R & D work relevant to professional and professional training. National research programmes are also necessary to improve the link between vocational education and training and to contribute to the uptake of research-based knowledge. NOKUT recommended a five-year master-level teacher training. Many who have supported this proposal have also pointed out the major consequences of such an upgrade. First of all, it will require the competence of teachers, who will be able to meet far from all professional environments today. Developments towards any more specialised teacher training will have an impact on the individual institution’s capacity and student base to offer. Clearly, it is desirable that institutions develop more master's offerings for teachers, where there is expertise in professionals and where there is a national need. The school-oriented master’s offerings developed must have a content and a device that the school needs. Such a development can be seen today gradually in many universities and universities. This is a process supported by the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e687	Most of what the Council of State says in its statement, of course, sounds contemptible. I noticed in particular that the Council of State respects knowledge and works to fill the concept of content. I hope the Council of State has come a little way, because the NOCUT evaluation of general teacher training was announced in 2006 - and now we write in 2008. SV has a political tradition of being impatient, and it's affordable, because it leads to quick action. But when the party is in position, it seems that the pace of action is somewhat reduced. It worries me a little bit. NOCUT concludes, as the Council of State itself said, that a five-year general teacher training is necessary. It has support from the Education Association, the Student Organisation and a number of others. Then I would like to ask the Council of State, despite the fact that she has notified a big message: How long will the Council of State take to reach the same conclusion as mentioned above?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e696	It is not the case that the Ministry, nor the state councils that have always been there, have been on the lat side since the NOCUT report arrived. At the moment, work was started on a larger group of experts assessing the situation, and a number of initiatives have been taken, including centrally, to stimulate action. I remember it on the state budget because this year it was set at $40 million. kr to various measures aimed at strengthening teacher training and giving new knowledge. So we have a bunch of trials around. We have a very comprehensive assessment ahead of us, both in terms of differentiation and possible ways of improving the content and structure of teacher training. I would therefore like to say to the representative: when the teacher education message comes during this year, there will be plenty of opportunity to take a stand for the different educations, both those who are today five years old, and those who are today going over a different number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e703	Gudmund Hernes once said the winged words: Reise the half-time student at least! It might be a descriptive heading of general teacher education, as it looks per year. today. So in the study that I referred to in my main post - from the University of Oslo - it has been calculated that the average study time for the general school students corresponds to a year's work of 960 hours. If you compare it to a 40-hour week, you get a job fraction of 60 p.p., and thus you have calculated that you actually have a three-year general teacher training instead of a four-year one. These are numbers that have been known for a while, and it also goes straight into the criticism that NOCUT has addressed to educational institutions. So, as the representative, Inger Enger, said, there were 123 direct calls to the institutions. My question then is: has the Council of State done anything to ensure that the institutions follow up on the low student effort and intensity of the general school students?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e712	I believe the representative Eriksen Soreide and I are together to wait perhaps even more for the institutions to move forward in their follow-up. I think the representative has expressed something similar earlier. Of course, I am fully aware that most of the improvement measures in the keel water of the NOCUT report went directly to the individual institution. As I said, we have worked systematically with some pilot schemes and other centralized schemes, but in our follow-up to the institutions, this is of course a very important topic on our agenda in the governance dialogue with the institutions. We are constantly concerned about filling out any gaps in the student's education offer, and doing a real, good job to make it easier for the students to fill their study day with the content to be there. I'm glad that the representative himself said in his post that you will start at the right end, and I think it's a lot to pick up when it comes to improving today's education, before we go for even more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e721	The Council of State said in its speech that one will focus on pedagogics in order to make it more up-to-date with regard to the challenges that teachers face in everyday life, in response to the students. My question is: Since the criticism has been that there is too little connection between theory and practice, between vocational training and the practice that teachers meet in school, does this development of the pedagogical profession have anything to say for practice? Does one see this work as part of the pedagogical profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e728	We are actively working on two of the most important criticisms from NOKUT regarding trials and assessments in relation to the expert advice we receive. One is practice, and the other is the relationship between practice and theory, and the other is the strengthening of the very core of teacher training, namely the teaching profession. This is related. The pedagogical science itself might mean that there's a better way to learn -- when you have a closer run than today, and by dealing with practice. That will, of course, be a very important part of the assessments we make. The big question is how detailed both we and the Stortinge are to be in the final treatment of teacher training, and to what extent we are to give some more overarching leadership in how institutions are to implement their education services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e735	The council said she was sympathetic to important trials. We agree on that. Such an attempt is now being clarified at the University of Bergen, where, if you haven't already done so, you will apply to the Department for permission to use a five-year master, where you do two things. One strengthens the professional immersion in two subjects, in Norwegian and mathematics, and one doubles the practice time, i.e. the practice time - i.e. that some of the issues raised in the criticism of teacher training in the NOCUT evaluation are addressed. Such a master will try to show you how to strengthen your education as a general teacher today. The left is concerned whether the Council of State will sympathise with such a test request from a serious educational institution which considers this to be a necessary step to improve the quality of general teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e742	We take a positive view of all the good activity that's going on around. We already have master's degree at all our universities on the teaching side, so there is no lack of experience from offering masters, i.e. with a five-year education that lies there - but it is at university level. It is also what Finland has in its teacher training. I look at the situation in relation to new applications so that when we are so close to the presentation of a message, I would rather have the discussion in connection with the message rather than starting further attempts now. That's my primary position. But of course, I'd like to consider any input that might come, both good input into our work on the message, but also input that can help individual educations find even better ways than today. It is, after all, the main responsibility of the institutions to get good education, of course within the overall framework of their education. But I'll look positive at all attempts to improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e749	So there's a cross-political consensus that we have to do something about teacher training. As the rapporteur said, what is happening today is not good enough. Government parties signal that all teacher training must be put on hold, and they regard it as a major and complex reform. At the same time, they say that there is a need to address the short-term challenges – without making a single proposal for action. So my question is, what is the reason why the government parties are not willing to review the general teacher training framework in order to ensure that it is up-to-date with the Knowledge promise? Does the Council not see the need for such quality assurance, or is it more important for the government parties simply to produce a lot of empty phrases that are not followed up in concrete action than it is to listen to the country's largest school owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e756	Of course, we look at the framework plan in connection with the work being done now. We are now in the situation that we have had two framework plans in a very short time. The previous one was quite detailed, and the one that is now is little in detail. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to assess the framework plan as such and its contents when we are about to have a review of teacher training. But to claim that nothing has been done is to shoot far beyond the goal. This year it's set at $40 million. to actions in the State budget of the year to strengthen teacher training and to provide new knowledge. Research is under way for practical R & D for kindergarten, primary and teacher education; the Ministry has supported its own annual R & D conference; it is a programme of guidance for newly educated teachers; it is launched a three-year project at regional level to develop cooperation between the university and higher education sectors and the school and kindergarten sectors; it is a development project led by NTNU and the University of Agder; it is a project with new models of teacher training for primary schools at Telemark and in Westfold, and so I could continue. [[President clubs]] There's a lot of things going on, and that's what we're using as a basis for our work now. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e764	The President will remember the time of speech. The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e771	It is a very important matter we are dealing with today, namely improved and extended general teacher training. This spring’s debate on the state of Norwegian school has been useful, because it has helped many to get involved and that school policy has again been raised on the agenda. The debate has also confirmed for a long time what the Left has said, that the teacher has a key role to play in creating a better school. Although I feel that there is a broad consensus about the teacher's key role, I will take this opportunity again to stress the importance of good teachers. The competence of teachers is crucial for the learning of students, as we know from several studies, including: from the NTNU survey referred to in the setting. Students in Norwegian school deserve good teachers, and it is our job as elected representatives to do ours for teachers to be professionally competent and competent. That is also why the Left has promoted the proposal that we are now debating. In addition, it must be allowed to say that we in the Left are impatient, we are impatient on behalf of the students, on behalf of the teachers, on behalf of the school and on behalf of society. After NOKUT evaluated teacher training and presented its report a year and a half ago, we in the Left have waited for the Government to present its proposals for a new and improved education, which was most required by the NOCUT report. The New Year's Eve to the Prime Minister gave us hope that something was in demand, but the only promise we have been given is a big message that will come during the year. In the view of the Left, it has taken disproportionately long before the Government has decided to present a separate message on this important topic. It should be done much faster than what you're adding up to. The left, like the NOKUT Panel, the Education Association, the Educational Students and a number of European teacher organisations, believe that extending to a five-year teacher training will allow for more depression and improve the quality of education. At the same time, in our opinion, this will contribute to a status level for teachers, which in turn will make education more attractive in terms of both new applicants and those who are already in school. This is incredibly important. It surprises me that no more have been willing to support the Left's proposal for systematic empowerment for teachers and national recruitment plans, which we have discussed earlier. I am surprised that no more will support the proposal that we are discussing here today. We believe that more people should take advantage of the possibility of examining this proposal to highlight their ambitions for future teacher training, including: as regards the length of the training, practical arrangements, etc. We believe that clarifying these external frameworks will not remove the focus from short-term actions pending the announcement of the call, nor remove the focus in relation to the content of education. [[The President clubs.]] It's about having some clear ambitions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e782	Much is good in the Norwegian school, but a lot has also gone in the wrong direction. The professional learning outcomes are weakened, the weakest students remain weaker, and the school is unable to give all students the challenges and personal growth that they are going to have. Studies show, as many have mentioned, that Norwegian school lags behind in terms of learning outcomes. The reasons can be many, but the main reason is many years of ignoring expertise. There's a reduction in the teacher's role and status, the teacher's shift to becoming a supervisor, and there's a lack of borderline requirements, with a lot of anxiety coming along. For the Left, the school has always been one of the nation's most important projects. In these agricultural settlements, I allow myself to highlight two of the most important professions we have: one is to produce food, for food we have to have every day, and the other is to teach future generations. It has to do with surviving as a welfare nation, we have to bet on knowledge and competence. But it's urgent to do a professional upgrade of Norwegian school. So to the debate on the length of teacher training. I agree that content is important, quality is important, but no one believes that the result will be worse if one fills the teacher's education with knowledge for another year, i.e. a five-year teacher's education. If you really think that the length of teacher training is not important, it is also a real kick for the long - term trainers. A good job depends on the security of the teacher's role, that as a teacher you know what you're doing, and that you know what you're doing. Then you deal with the everyday situation in the classroom in a much better way than if you are professionally unsure. Professional uncertainty leads to uncertainty as a manager and as a teacher in the classroom. The vast majority of the leaders, whether in the classroom, in school or in the business world, are also professionally qualified. That is why professional security in the teaching role is so important. Teacher training must be seen in a long-term perspective. There's a hurry to get started with an enhanced vocational teacher training. No one, even in this room, can convince me that you're becoming a poorer teacher with one year of education. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Right and Christian People's Party will not be with the Left if this proposal joins with it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e793	The President will again remind you that when the red lamp stops blinking, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e796	It was, not surprisingly, the representative of Åsa Elvik who tempted me to take the floor again. Firstly, I believe that it is a crisis for the Norwegian school when we are unable to provide all children with basic reading and writing training. We are continuing to close pathways to education and working life. We know that in Norway we have over 700,000 people in pre-employment who are outside the labour market, and very many of them have poor literacy skills, many are functional illiterates, many are illiterate, many of them become social welfare recipients, and the background is that they have passed through a school that has not managed to give them the basics. It's a crisis. So the Norwegian school is good at understanding democracy, it's good in English, it's good at cooperation - but we know that. It's good for well-being, but there's no contrast between well-being and learning, rather the opposite. I therefore believe that it is important to focus on what we know is going well, but also on correcting what we know is not going well. That's what I think we have to do. When the representative Elvik believes that the Right owes to the institutions for not having followed up the new framework plan that came for teacher training, it's not what the Right says, it's something NOCUT says. As the representative of Inger Enger was quite right, 129 specific proposals were put forward by NOKUT. 123 of them went directly to the educational institutions. So the whole committee, in the position we are going to adopt today, has agreed to describe some of the NOCUT's most important findings, such as: is concerned with the lack of governance and management of educational institutions. We have to take that seriously, and so does the Government. We launched an evaluation of the new framework plan. The intention of it was to be told whether it worked as intended. At a seminar where both the Council of State and I attended a few weeks ago, the education director of Oslo, Astrid Søgnen, asked a very important question at the beginning of his introduction. She said, "Why should we succeed this time?" That's the whole core question: what do we have to do to succeed, and why do we believe that the measures we're now taking are going to make us succeed to a different degree than before? Teachers are the school's most important resource. There's no doubt about it. Engaged, competent, professionally motivated, competent teachers are the best guarantee we have for children to learn the basics of reading, writing and calculating. We know that we have challenges in general teacher training. We also know that we have a lot of very good teachers in Norwegian school, but we need more of them, and we need them now. That's why it's so important that we do something about the education we have, now, that we do it today and do not wait for the programming messages and discussions that come in the future. We need to take action that can improve teacher training, for example: review the framework plans with a view to updating them in relation to the Knowledge Lift. I don't understand that the government can be against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e811	This has become a bit of a strange debate. I also think that the previous speaker argued very well for the proposal for five-year general teacher training, but records that they will not support it. But this time, too, the representative of Åsa Elvik made me speak. She said both that the Right owes to the organizations and that the Advance Party owes it to the teachers. Let me make it clear: there are very many very good and competent teachers in Norwegian school. The Progress Party has been working for many years to make them even better. That's why, together with other parties in this room, we have worked to have binding continuing education plans for teachers, so that the teachers who are at work today get even better knowledge. The Socialist Left Party is voting against. The reason is probably that SV has a slightly different concept of knowledge than what we have, they focus on things other than reading, writing and professional skills. It's possible. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why the former Minister of Knowledge in Education No. 10 didn't take much, it was basically a pretty powerful, settlement with what has been the Socialist Left Party's educational policy for many years. That's why there's little faith when the Socialist Left Party from this pulpit says it's those who think about quality in Norwegian school. It is probably those who have had the least thoughtful activity in that area. Then you try to throw the ball over to someone else, and say that with Left's good intentions you get the Advance Party and the Right on the purchase. As if the intentions of the Advance Party were anything but good. It's going to be some kind of political rhetoric that doesn't hang out. For example, a board of trustees in the Progress Party, Sylvi Listhaug, have said that it will be easier to provide an alternative career for teachers who are unable to handle their subjects and their teaching profession. I thought SV actually agreed that, as we also heard from the representative Tørresdal, it is important to make sure that the teachers who work at school actually have the ability to learn away. Not everyone has it. But it's important to make things easier for them to do it, and those who can't do it have to be corrected away from education. If we haven't done it through education, we have to be able to guide them away afterwards. I thought the Socialist Left Party agreed, but I understand that neither is the quality that is in focus here, nor is it knowledge. Then I register that the State Council of Aasland says they want to look at the framework plan for general teacher training. Then I find it difficult to understand why the government parties are not able to support this proposal in the Stortinget today, so that an overall increase can come together to adapt the framework plan for the promise of knowledge. It should not be difficult to follow up good intentions of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e826	We have good schools in Norway, with engaged students who learn a lot. We have good, workrooms, engaged and skilled teachers in Norway. We also know that we have some challenges, both in terms of reading and writing. We know that many students don't learn to read and write well enough. We know that we have a school that doesn't largely equalize the social differences, as we want it to do. We know that our kids don't get the help they need when they ask for it. And what parents, teachers and students ask for is early effort. This is what this government is working on - concrete measures directly into school, but also in teacher training. What's our most important task is to give teachers the tools they need to become even better teachers. It's not long since we got a new teacher training in Norway. This happened under the previous government. In that government, too, left. The feedback we have received from organisations, professionals, trade unions and teachers is: We want a new teacher training, but take your time! Create a new teacher training that lasts over time, which is good and of good quality! We can't continue to get a new teacher training every five years. This does not give stability, this does not give predictability, and this does not result in recruiting more teachers as we have to. I also want to show a little bit to the Left Party, which was in government in the last period. There was a new teacher training. The left did not then promote proposals for five-year teacher training. They prioritised tax credits in front of spending money on teacher training. Now we're going to spend time going through this, and we're not rejecting a five-year teacher education, but we're going to come back to this in the big news of teacher training that's coming very soon. We often have debates about teacher training. It is important and right to have in this room, because teachers are the most important resource, and the teaching profession is the most important profession we have in Norway. I would like to quote Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide from the debate on 14 February: ‘we introduced a new teacher training which the institutions have not followed up on the basis of non-management by the institutions. [[...]] It is not because the training itself was not good enough, but because it is not followed up by the institutions.’ We're in the process of following up the institutions, but we don't agree with the Right that we don't need a new teacher training, so we're working on a big message about this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e842	The representative Anundsen said in his first post that teacher training needs more than a paint strip. Yeah, that's exactly what we also mean. The progress party and the left only operate with this paint stroke, without having insulation and planks to paint on. It takes time to renovate an entire house. I also register that the Progress Party and the Left do not respond to the questions I asked in my first post. Would you like specialisation on a level or on a subject, or a combination of that? Is the time of the general teacher over? We cannot decide on a proposal for a representative that is as diffuse as this. A big message will go into the depth of the problem, and the knowledge the teacher needs to learn from, and the knowledge the teacher needs to have, of course, should be in focus. As far as the framework plan is concerned, I have been signalled that it should be considered to make the framework plan shorter and more concrete than it is today. During the processing of the Storing Communication, we may need to make changes to the Framework Plan in areas other than just putting in the Knowledge Plan. Maybe we'll make it shorter. At that time, it is not appropriate to make changes to the framework plan now and in half a year. We can't, for those who are going to get involved and work on it, make such changes every six months. I believe that the Left really underestimates the teaching institutions when the representative Dørum stands here and believes that the institutions are not at all implementing the Knowledge promise in their education of new students. The representative Dørum also claims that the number of applicants for teacher training is the same as the number of places. That's wrong. This year, there are 2,470 planned places of study in general teacher training and there are over 8 000 applicants. A black paint of education benefits neither the teachers who are in school now nor those who want to become teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e853	When the Ministry, in cooperation with the Red-Green Majority at Stortinget, has gone into the follow-up to the evaluation of NOKUT, we have had one ambition. It is to ensure that general teacher training is good enough. It must then be an unlikelyly more important ambition than to say that the number of years of education in itself is an ambition. The number of years may be a tool to achieve an ambition. There's at least one discussion we're given the opportunity to come back to. Obviously, we're fundamentally disunity when it comes to how to make a change happen. The NOKUT report gave us some messages, which we have taken seriously when it applies to what is not good enough. It is said that a lot is good, and that there are differences between institutions, but there are some points in the action of the institutions that are serious, among other things. the integration of theory and practice. It's an enormous paradox when an educated teacher, who's just the ones to make sure that we get elephants who can read, write and count, and become a useful human being, who are able to stick to both theory and practice. It's the highest ambition of all. We might disagree with the procedure for making a change happen, but don't say that we haven't followed it up. If there's something we've done, it's just that. I think the discussion when it comes to knowledge is quite satisfactory. The teacher has an unbelievably important role as a general practitioner in Norwegian society. The teacher also has an incredibly important role to play in managing special skills, which I now hear is that the mayors kind of sneak in as the only possible understanding of what knowledge is. It's not just that knowledge. Schools shall ensure that students become useful people. It's been a high-ranking ideal for the Norwegian school. I haven't met a teacher who doesn't get involved with that particular goal. Then it's to make sure that all the elephants learn what they're going to at school -- that they can read that they can write, that they can count -- incredibly important. Then the committee leader would like to continue talking about a crisis in Norwegian school, but I don't want to go along with that. There is no SV on it because there is so much good going on in Norwegian school. There's no reason to say there's a crisis there. It's unfurnished, it's black measurement, and it goes into the line that the opposition is also well approaching the discussion of general teacher training. It's a little constructive. One sends an incredibly de motivating message to all those who have worked in these educational institutions, in these important parts of society, when one chooses to rely on such a type of rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e862	I have to say I am quite provoked to hear the red-green talk about the people of benefit and the school's responsibility for the total spectrum. It obviously has. But when one out of five doesn't learn to read and write, I don't understand how to write off just one out of five relative to just the discussion about people of benefit. How you've managed to go with a whole government into that we're now going to start discussing this again, I think it's pretty special. The reason why I took the floor was that Elvik also, in his first post, sailed a little under flag and claimed that the opposition was only concerned with national measures, and that this was really about institutional action and action. And that's what she says when it's not more than a month since I had an interpellation about just the same thing. Then I had actually expected that the Council of State might have provided some figures as to how it has actually begun to improve this out in the institutions, because an all-important part of the measures that NOCUT presented is actually action that the boards have to be made responsible for doing out in the institutions. You have to use the non-zero numbers. You have to use the numbers to analyze how to improve your education. These are good ownership policies of the institutions involved. It has nothing to do with blaming them. I had actually expected some figures and indications that the institutions took this responsibility. I hope the Council of State might come back to that a little bit. Experimental mechanisms and the type of grip are well and good, but they are long-term measures. The fact that governments actually take the responsibility they have for following up their own education is the most effective and the best short-term measure we can take to improve their entire education. So a little bit back to this with knowledge. I believe that the status of the teacher, of which we are all concerned individually, is improved by creating good results in school. I don't think you're talking to the good status of the teacher. The fact that we now focus on both the teacher's education and the status of the teacher, the school actually has to endure in the form that we have to create better results here. That's what's going to create status for the teacher in the future. Finally a little to Ljunggren. I think it's a fact that not everyone knows the promise of knowledge and the intentions behind it. I had a conversation with a professor of pedagogics a few days ago, which claimed that many pedagogues started teaching general education by teaching how to be critical of the promise of knowledge, that is, before you have learned anything about how to teach at all. Then we have a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e873	Some brief comments: According to the representative Ljunggren, we only paint a sign that says "five years". No, not at all. We have an investigation from NOKUT. We have statements from the Federation of Education. We know how European teacher organisations now define the status of teachers counting at the time. But what we're saying is that we have to have it as ambition and then work through all the practical arrangements. I think we're going to need a high school teacher on many levels, but not a teacher who teaches subjects that you don't know anything about. You have to have the ballast from all the subjects, you have to have the pedagogics, you have to have the weight with you, and then we want to use the specialists at least from the youth up -- that's how I think about it. It is fully possible to make a division of labour on this within our education system. We have to set some professional standards. When the Left has a proposal on which the entire opposition is united, it is because Astrid Søgnen, on behalf of the country's largest school owners, calls on the Committee to review as soon as possible whether the training organisations are dealing with the Knowledge promise. She could tell us at the mentioned meeting that in Oslo, newly-trained teachers are given a 50-hour course in basic teaching skills to make them feel good at the transition to practical everyday life. It is a sensible measure in any case. But she speaks with great gravity and great seriousness, and she speaks on behalf of a school system that has produced good results, which most people have taken with them. We must listen to that when it is said with such strength, from such a background and from such a large school system. So some brief comments on what you did in the previous government. In the previous government, the Left was involved in getting to the Knowledge Lift. It is quite right that we gave tax relief to business, a tax relief that led to a significant increase in tax revenue at the entrance of the first year of the red-green government, and that had nothing to do with anything they did, but that they have subsequently been able to eat up in a race between interest, inflation and wage increases. So yes, it makes sense to give business incentives so that it creates values that society can take advantage of. We are proud that we got to the Knowledge Lift. Then I'm told by the representative Elvik that we get the Right and the Advance Party on the purchase. The left has nothing to do with the fact that the Right and Advance Party in the largest city in the country, Oslo, are involved in implementing a systematic further training reform for teachers, a teacher's vow, which the teachers will receive one semester of every eight years. We think that's an incredibly good thing. We did it together with the Christian People's Party, which is also in opposition with the Left. We can put it into concrete terms: it would have been unusually good in two counties in the country where the Left sits in a ruling position with the red-green, in Buskerud and Nord-Trøndelag, if one shows that one is able to deliver as practical results as it is possible to deliver in cooperation between the Left and Christian People's Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other, by taking teachers seriously and providing them with systematic further training. Such a «purchase» must be appreciated by any batch. We are not ashamed that we can stand together with other parties about good things. We're just amazed that the red-greens are gone in very many of these practical contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e887	According to case rapporteur Ljunggren, the Left and Advance Party has put on the paint suit today and started painting fences. It is worrying - not because we use the suits to paint, but because the case-rapporteur must have obviously misunderstood what the proposal is actually about. We have explained this several times in the committee, we have explained it in the vote, and we have explained it from the Chair today. Nevertheless, the rapporteur insists that the proposal should involve some form of night-round work to carry out an inconsequential five-year training. None of the proposers have ever said that, only the case rapporteur and representatives of the government parties. Then it is important that the case rapporteur also learns the difference in black paint and the desire for improvement. If there is black paint every time you point to conditions in general teacher training or other areas in the education sector that have an improvement potential, yes, then I understand that this government is not allowed to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e894	The representative of Kongshaug said he was disappointed with the Christian People's Party, who had said no to the proposal. Then I just want to make it clear that the Christian People's Party has not said no. The Christian People's Party has said that we will take this seriously and evaluate it next time. In particular, we find the word ‘fastest’ in the proposal problematic – that one should decide for five years first, and then one will take the rest of the discussion afterwards. I think the question of whether we are going to have a four-year or a five-year teacher education is an important question, that is a good question, and it should definitely be assessed. But one has to evaluate the whole and not jump to conclusions - so conclude on the length before one has considered what one wants to use this length for. So there's no reason for the Left to be disappointed in the Christian People's Party. We intend to take their proposals seriously. We haven't said no, we're actually considering saying yes, but we haven't decided. Then to the representative Anundsen, about suitability. There we agree with the Progress Party and certainly with other parties in this Chamber. There are teachers in school who should never have been teachers, who we never want as teachers for our children because they can't do what we called learning before -- what we're saying today is to impart knowledge in such a way that there's learning in the child. Whatever we call it, there's someone who's not fit to be in school. When I picked it up, my intention was to point out that teacher training had to reveal these teachers. It's a failure statement if we're going to solve this by making it easier to kick people. Are we really going to let people go through a four-year or five-year-old education and not get guidance, not get signals, and let them get through a loophole, an exam, and get a paper that they can be teachers, if they're not suitable? There is a great potential for improvement. We must be able to do this through teacher training. I hope and believe that the Government will take those aspects into account when looking at the practical part of general teacher training. There must be a silencing of those who must never become teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e905	I didn't really intend to take the word, but when I sit here and hear that there's almost a parallel world in here to what's happening out there, I have to take the word. I was at KS’s school a few weeks ago. I can't exactly say that there were a lot of big business representatives there. I guess it was signed and another one from the same party. State Council Solhjell was inside and picked up a flowering brush, but otherwise it was not quite the big one. But who was there? It was the school owners. It was the municipalities. Who knows best where the shoe prints in relation to what we now have as the theme? There were a few areas in which it was strongly focused, which I do not fully know about the representatives in the Chamber, and especially those from the government parties, are aware of. There was a lack in the schoolwork, and the focus was on it, among other things. Of course, what we are debating, a strengthened teacher training, a five-year teacher training, that was strong management, and that was clear goals and clear governance. These factors were the most important from the point of view of the school owners. It was also debated something as great as you're using - now a person can call it what you want, including you're using - at school, not to stigmatise some groups and say that they don't keep goals, but because it's actually in the interest of the individual teacher to have a working day and a job that is proportionate to what the individual can handle. Five-year teacher training - why not? There are some extra needs we're now seeing coming. Take class management. It has not before been focused on class management as a subject of its own. More practice has been told is important, and we are here in this Chamber, I think, cross-politically agree. Dwelling in trades, working interdisciplinaryly with other groups in the school community - there are many areas where a five-year teacher education could focus on getting a strengthening. It's actually possible to do that. It is not necessary to push all things so far out in time. It's the will it lacks. At least that's my perception of what we've been debating right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e918	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, said that SV has got the government to say that knowledge is not important. Of course, knowledge is important. That's what the Center Party believes, that's what SV means, and that's what the Workers' Party means. We don't accept one in five going out of high school without being able to read and write properly. That is precisely why we have put early action on the agenda. So to the Progress Party Anders Anundsen, who said we haven't done anything at all. We have put early efforts on the agenda, we want more teaching help into school and have started projects with it. We want bigger school-home collaboration and have a full focus on it. We're expanding the number of hours at the nursery, which the opposition doesn't have. Those hours will go to more reading, writing, Norwegian, English and math. When the representative says that this is not supposed to happen overnight, it is just to quote what is actually in the proposal: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the implementation of a five-year general teacher training as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2008.’ Revised national budget -- the last time I checked the calendar, Thursday comes next week. In one week it is impossible to obtain the content of a five-year teacher training. We need more time, that's why we come up with a big message. It's time to refer to the magazine Education from this pulpit. In the Chairman of the Section for Economic and Monetary Union and Economic and Monetary Union, 9 Knut Hovland ‘The left can easily reach down a bit.’ Furthermore, he writes: ‘Over the four years, from 2001 to 2005, Norwegian schools and Norwegian teachers experienced some of the most serious setbacks they have experienced in several decades.’ The previous government got a pass to cancel the class division in the school. It should in principle help to create greater flexibility and should not be used as a savings reform. But in practice, there have been so many places in the country. This will also lead to poorer quality of student offers and a much greater workload for teachers. If we also include the large free-release Bondevik government, especially in higher education, we have mentioned enough examples of what went wrong last time the Left put in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e947	There has been an interesting debate, which has given many insights into our important work. I think it's best for everyone, both the government parties and the opposition, to agree on what knowledge is - that it's about both the practical and the theoretical, that it's about both what can be measured and what cannot be measured, and that's what students should learn and what teachers should teach. I hope we agree that the kind of knowledge we need, which is the whole thing, is what we're basing on. I took the floor now to respond to Mr Gundersen's comments - whether we have any figures for how the institutions follow up. I can then report that we have dialogue with all the institutions in the context of the governance dialogue, and all the institutions have been required to have follow-up plans, and I have been told that they have. All institutions now have follow-up plans and have been instructed by the Ministry to report on their follow-up. So we closely follow what the institutions do. I also find it interesting what has come up here about the responsibility of the school owners for the individual institutions - i.e. for the individual schools. Our responsibility is for the teacher training institutions, and that's who we're talking to, and we have a responsibility for them following up here. It is a challenge related to the discussion of any five-year teacher training. We have it in our universities today. There are many ways to have a five-year teacher education, but with regard to the four-year teacher training that is currently at our colleges, first and foremost - I mentioned this in my article - there is a challenge in both the capacity and the ability of individual colleges to expand education to become more extensive. I imagine a good and exciting discussion, perhaps also in the follow-up to the Starø Committee's report, about a division of labour between the professional and the disciplined, so that in teacher training we can also get even clearer variants both of good professional training and of the discipline training that is in today's five-year master's offer, which many of our universities already have. I thank you for the debate, and have taken note of a lot of good input into our work on informing about the role of teachers and teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e962	Odd Einar Dørum has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is now given a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e965	Some short notes. The representative, Mr Ljunggren, simply does not want to read the position, because the premise for the proposal that has been presented is in the position and has been clarified by the Progress Party and the Left. Initiating means initiating a process. When there is a short time for the revised national budget, it is because the matter has remained in the committee, and that is all the reason why: We got a change of state council. So when time goes by, we don't draw the proposal. But that's the way it is. With regard to the quote from Education, the Left is very proud of what happened during the Bondevik II government. We got together with others started the Knowledge Lift. We got started with an obliging follow-up training, which the sitting government has inherited. We got started with a tightening and an improvement in teacher training, which the sitting government has inherited, and which they carry on. What we're waiting for now is what this government is going to do on its own. That is why we are promoting proposals, and that is why we are also very surprised that a series of proposals - from recruitment plans to systematic further training - are being voted down. We are simply waiting for the government's own initiative, and not just for the repetition of inheritance from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e974	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is now given a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e977	I think it's in place with a slight rise in the level of precision of the representative Ljunggren. So the opposition has not voted against proposals to extend the school day, as the government has now put it in the budget. On the contrary, Right for, because extension of school day is a follow-up to the policy we led in government. We expanded by 12 hours of week between 2001 and 2005, and we felt that it was necessary to follow up on further increases in hours now. Therefore, it is important to clarify that the opposition has not voted against. At least the right has voted in favour, and there are also other parties in the opposition. It is also important to say that the measures mentioned by the Ljunggren representative, both educational assistance, early interventions and several other measures, are, of course, actions undertaken under the previous government. The entire superstructure of the Knowledge Lift is, of course, an early effort and emphasis on basic skills. It's positive that it goes on, but you can't try to take credit for what others have started today in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3247]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1000	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1009	There are some areas in the policy debate that are more frequent. Research, development and innovation are such an area. The various committees here at Stortinget have research and development as a common platform, which is also reflected in some of the proposals in the proposal for a representative. The Committee is in full agreement on the essentials, such as increased focus on the status and formulation of the growth target, the desire to achieve as much as possible, economically and socially, for the use of resources and other key research targets. Furthermore, the Committee is also very clear on the need for increased focus on higher education and research, not only in order to achieve the cross-political objective of the knowledge society, but also in order to find solutions to key societal problems. The Committee has been concerned that there needs to be a space for action that allows for a greater strategic focus in research policy. The Committee also considers that up-to-date scientific equipment and infrastructure are essential for the quality of Norwegian research. That being said, it must also be said that there are many unresolved tasks that the Government, in the eyes of the opposition, has not focused on and has not delivered on. We see that official research policy priorities have little been followed up with increased resource availability. It is noteworthy that there is no growth in the appropriations for renewable energy research and for climate research. An overall opposition also believes that the last two years’ use of the research fund’s return has been characterised by the government’s making an increasingly detailed designation for use as operating capital within the 7th Framework Programme. The special role of the Fund in research funding in general and of the Research Council in particular is thus in the process of disappearing altogether. The Progress Party, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, wants multiannual budgeting in some areas. Research and development is such an area. Research has no buttons at all. It is essential to bring forward the long-term nature of research, so that both private and public efforts are made to dry out. Furthermore, in the Progress Party, we are committed to increasing the focus on quality in research, as well as stimulating increased focus on needs-driven research, including networking and innovation. In research, interaction between universities, other research institutions and Norwegian business needs to be opened up to an even greater extent in order to improve the efficiency of the exploitation of research, development and innovation. Closer cooperation with the Nordic countries on the research side could provide synergies in a globalised world. There needs to be a strong emphasis on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, where clusters can be created, and where individual actors can attract exchange rates. Public research environments may appear to be too under-market oriented. Of course, an increase should not be at the expense of basic research and focus on priority areas, but it can, in fact, strengthen this area. By creating new incentives and retaining existing schemes à la SkatteFUNN, by supporting unremunerated research efforts and increasing hourly rates and financial limits, a positive signal could be given to private businesses and other research environments. Some people say that with knowledge, we can do something about money, but research actually also turns money into knowledge, which can once again be used for further growth. How are we to succeed in an increasingly globalized world? Indeed, by laying the foundations for future generations by focusing on knowledge, on research and development, and not least on technology building, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1028	It is not difficult to agree with the proposers that research is an important prerequisite for new knowledge, human formation, environmental awareness and an innovative and innovative business. This is also underlined by many debates here in the Chamber. I have a feeling today that we are repeating ourselves, after more debates on the importance of research. But a good thing cannot be debated too often. What surprises me, however, is the repeated accusations that the government is not betting on research. The existence of challenges, not least with regard to achieving the 3 pst. target at a time of high growth in gross domestic product, has repeatedly underlined the importance of Aasland State Council. But that it's not bet, it's not true. However, the repetitions of the opposition remove the focus from the good research environments we have in Norway. It's a shame, and I'm sorry. I want to use some numbers. Since we received a red-green majority here at Stortinget in the autumn of 2005, public research and development appropriations have increased by DKK 3.5 billion in nominal terms and have a real growth of DKK 1.6 billion. It means an equal growth of three years as the previous government had of four years. It gives an average growth over the last three years of closer to 4 pst. It is roughly in line with the other OECD countries. In addition, the Research Fund has been considerably strengthened. The appropriations for the State budget are now at approx. 0.75 pst. GDP, which has remained stable for the last 10 years. Growth in the contribution of industry shows an increase in 2006 without leading us to the 3pst target, due to the high growth in GDP, a growth that explains much of the stagnation in the share of gross domestic product we use for research. In addition, the overall effort for research and development purposes of the State budget in 2008 is about SEK 17.8 billion, and in addition, we have the TaxFUNN scheme. Together with money from business, we spend well over 30 billion dollars on R & D in Norway this year. Distributed by the number of residents in the country, we spend a lot of money on research. We also do that with regard to how much is allocated to the state budget. But all of this, of course, is known by the proposers. There is a lot of very good research going on in Norway. The initiative of the Research Council at centres for excellent research and centres for excellent innovation has helped to promote good research environments that are emerging in international contexts. These environments are provided with predictable and long-term frameworks, as requested by the proposers. The Research Council then also says that they will invest in several such environments in the future, including in the social sciences, which to date are not represented. This is good. The climate agreement, of which the Left is also part, also provides predictability for research into climate and environment, both in terms of content and financial resources. Our participation in the 7th EU Framework Programme also provides our good research environments with opportunities to participate in international excellent research projects. In connection with the previous framework programme we have participated in, Norway has got back what we have spent on money. The programme we are now participating in is considerably larger in scope, raising new issues. One question is whether our research communities have the capacity to increase activity in line with the increase in the quota. Another question is whether our research environments are large and robust enough to take on leadership or coordination responsibilities for major projects. Such responsibility is demanding, and Norwegian environments have so far tried to avoid it. In the research recruitment notice, which will soon come, it will be central to discussing not only the quantity, but also the quality of the research environments we are going to invest in in the future. With regard to the proposals that are on the table today, we choose not to support them. That's basically budget proposals, and we treat them as known before Christmas, not all the rest of the year. But there is one proposal I have great sympathy for, and that is proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox I do not know today whether a governance document according to the national transport plan model is the answer to the research environment's need for predictability and long-termity, but I think there may be a need for a governance instrument in this important social sector too. I hope the Council of State will comment on the proposal in its statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1054	The proposers focus on a very interesting theme. The consensus that Norway must have great ambitions for research seems to be strong, but today’s government does not seem to have the political will to follow up on the high ambitions. The news picture is currently full of momentary situations that need to be resolved: wage-fixing, agriculture, local economy and even patient hotels. We've got a "scream highest" distribution economy. It costs us a few billion or a few hundred million each time, and the space for action of the long-term lines' policies is getting smaller. This government has been able to make high GDP growth and high oil prices a problem for the research objectives. Instead, one could turn the issue around and say that the exceptional economic growth of the red-green government requires that we focus specifically on how Norway can maintain its position and role as a leading welfare society in the future. NOK 130 billion in increased space for action since accession has become a problem. It says a lot about the willingness to prioritize the future over the present. It would be quite amazing if you hadn't been able to give more money to research than the previous government, which you still like to compare with. There's a lot of talk about the knowledge society. It's knowledge that's going to bring us forward. It is that Norway has to have ambitions to be at the forefront of international research, but it is also that we need to have an active relationship with how parts of the research are to be organised, so that it really contributes to future well-being. It is about finding the balance between providing a framework for the university and higher education sectors that allows it to have strategic scope to expand its knowledge base based on its own strategic assessments, and stimulating business to develop strategies that increase their level of ambition. The challenge is thus twofold. This has had the right and total opposition in focus throughout the period. 130 billion fresh dollars into government budgets over three years provide opportunities to have high ambitions in addition to the next special interest that cries out for attention. It is a matter of priority! The proposal embraces both these perspectives. On the right, we have regularly reported on the harmfulness of the base cuts in the UoH sector. We are now constantly receiving reports of study provision that are being dropped, maintenance that is in deficit, and a general concern that the institutions do not have the strategic space they had expected. The government’s ‘sleep cutting’, which has now become quite so permanent, has rightly created an enormous expectation crisis. The research fund was intended to provide the sector with the strategic space it needs. When the Government uses the return to cover its own liabilities, inter alia: The EU Framework Programme is a breach of the Fund's intentions. Then we need a fundamental debate on precisely this - that is what the proposers are referring to - especially when we know that Norway's quota for the EU Framework Programme, among other things, will increase sharply in the years ahead. The government has already tightened up the TaxFUNN system twice. It is not surprising that rumors are about changing today's targeted, unbureaucratic and effective system into a grant-based and bureaucraticly managed system. The government should kill such rumors by reintroducing support for unremunerated research efforts and increasing hourly rates and limits of amounts. We read it in many places: the socio-economic return on research is higher than the private economic return. The small amount of research into this suggests that there are considerable differences. Society can expect two or three times higher returns on research than individual enterprises can, and the smaller the enterprise, the greater the difference. The TaxFUNN scheme hits it very well. Instead of doubting the eligibility of the scheme, the government should have full focus on finding the optimal level of stimulation. In the right, we agree with the proposers in their ambitions for the Research Fund, and we also believe that a certain long-termity is needed in the research governance and planning horizon. The amount of the research fund is included in the annual budget debates. Multiannual budgets are seen as part of a major debate in principle, and we therefore find the signals from the Workers' Party interesting. It's coming back to the Left's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1073	In Norwegian society, we spend a lot of money researching. During the current ageing period, we have increased the public rights of research by a total of $3.5 billion. We have one year left of this grossing-up period. The Bondevik II government managed in four years was 3.2 billion. Compared to countries with which we both compete and cooperate, Norwegian research permits are on the whole. And there are trends that indicate that we're doing better. Scientific publications are increasing, and Norwegian researchers have argued very well within the EU framework programme. There are positive trends. In addition, the capital of the Research Fund has increased by DKK 30 billion in the current period. In the SV we are some with the proposers in that there should be a strategic space for action that opens up greater efforts in the field of research policy. We show in the setting of some of the tools that are just established to contribute to this, but we also want to highlight the function the fund has when it comes to this. I think the opposition is a little unfurnished as they approach the discussion of research policy. The previous speaker chose to use the word ‘crisis’ in his speech. I'm a little uncertain about how well to use that type of rhetoric when there's no crisis in Norwegian research. The permissions have gone up, and we have a wide range of tools for strategic bet. The public is responsible for ensuring that the promises of the State budget for research are as high as they are supposed to be, but we know that our main challenge is to ensure that the contribution from business is increased. Then it's not an explanation to stick to facts about the Norwegian economy -- an economy that's oil-powered, an economy in which GDP is strongly linked to the oil price, an economy that has an economic structure that is not directly comparable to that of a very large number of other countries. It's not an explanation, but a fact that we're going to consider when interpreting numbers. In fact, the total R & D investment made in Norway as part of GDP fell from 1.7 pst. in 2003 to 1.5 pst. in 2005. It's an expression that when we choose to use GDP as a measure, we get that kind of response. But now that case has stabilized, so it doesn't fall anymore. I would like to draw up the climate agreement also in connection with this matter. The climate is the greatest challenge in our time, it is very often said from this pulpit. We, as well as meeting that situation with the greatest seriousness, aim to avoid global warming of more than 2 degrees. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that the reduction in global emissions must start in the period 2000-2015 if we are to achieve the target. It requires a transformation of an entire society. It requires us to move from a black oil economy to a green knowledge economy. It requires more research. We are very pleased with the element in the climate agreement that is about doubling climate research. We are also pleased that petroleum research should also have a significantly greater focus on climate, because the interesting thing is that energy and the environment are the largest thematic area in the Research Council's portfolio. Petroleum research today is three times as large as climate research and twice as large as energy research or else. With the climate agreement, we're just making a strategic change in relation to that. It's an expression that there's actually an action room. When one of them is willing to find money, one of them has the means to do it. I want to bring forward the role of the Research Council when this is the case. I don't know if I'm going to call it the actor, the arena or the instrument, but the Research Council is at least the most central unit we have when it's about achieving that kind of goal. They have access to the tools, they're a contacts, they're the ones with the knowledge. It is not possible to disagree that research and development will be decisive if we are to be able to achieve these ambitious climate targets. Furthermore, it is not possible to disagree that research and development are essential to achieve important health and food security objectives - the major challenges for the future. When it comes to the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative, it may be a proposal to which one might be sympathetic, but they have budgetary implications, and then we are forced to see them in a budgetary context. We'd better get back to it in that context. We will also come back to it in the more general debate in connection with the announcement of a research case from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1096	If you're going to believe the papers, in the last few days, there's been an intense power struggle within the government about more money for the municipal sector and for agriculture. For the Christian People's Party, these are important things that we believe should be given priority. So for all intents and purposes -- I hope that dragonfight has really led to a commitment to agriculture and a strengthened community economy. What I do miss, however, is a big headline in the media about an intense drag fight to strengthen higher education and research. Unfortunately, we see very little of that. There is no doubt that the various government budget proposals have not been good enough for higher education and research. It has been a lot of money - yes - but they have not been good enough. It is not only the opposition that agrees, but also a comprehensive university, higher education and research sector that has repeatedly expressed strong concerns about the budgets. What the former minister of knowledge referred to as a truce has now lasted for two years. This is now moving on to a major problem at the end of the year 2009. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has proposed to correct the cuts as well as to increase significantly the funding for research through the Research Fund. With the rise times we are in, we need to use the opportunity to invest in both school, higher education and research. We are concerned about the development we have seen in relation to the earmarking of the Research Fund's returns for specific purposes, such as: Norway quota for the 7th framework programme. This is a course of action that we see the Government use more and more often. And it's not just towards the Research Fund - the same applies also to the Information Society's fund. When the Government does not find new money for research, they instead earmark the return on current expenditure. We believe that this is the wrong way to use the returns of these funds, and that means a clear weakening of the original role of the funds and the strategic space of the Research Council. There has been long-standing agreement between the opposition parties on the vast majority of the proposals that the Left today is promoting here in the Chamber. In posts, notes, proposals, including alternative budget proposals, the opposition has now for three years asked the Government to invest more in higher education and research. We agree that the strategic space for action in Norwegian research and development needs to be increased. In the interview so often quoted with the previous Minister of Knowledge, he comes with a heartache about the lack of support he received from the Government internally. Perhaps we can view this proposal that we are dealing with today as an attempt at a helping hand from the opposition to the Council of State and the Government in the fight to prioritize higher education and research. It looks like it needs to be. The parties have said that they will not support the proposals, and they have largely justified it on the grounds that it has budgetary implications. That is all right, because we are just ahead of the revised national budget and soon the state budget for 2009. And then say it in my stavanger dialect: that's -- in the next two budget sessions -- that applies!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1113	Tørresdal began by saying that in the last few days there has been an intense struggle and major headlines about agriculture and municipal economy. I think I'm fine. We also have an intense fight for education and research, and you should know that our government councils are in charge of it. It's important to have great ambitions in research, and I have to say that our Council of State definitely has it. She has just emphasised that this is about increasing research efforts so that Norway should be at 3 pst. of GDP, to be kept up-to-date. So that's good. At the same time, we know that continued high growth in Norway's GDP means a sharp increase in research efforts to achieve the 3 pst. target. I don't know if it's going to be to defend us, but at least it should be said that Norway is not the only country that feels it's demanding to reach the 3pst target and the public target by 2010. The EU Member States remain at 1.9 p.m.. of GDP, at around the same level as when the 3 pst. target was set in 2002. Many countries, including Sweden, Denmark, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are experiencing a decline in public research efforts as a share of GDP. This should not, of course, be a sleeping cushion for us. All countries are working very hard to reach their targets, but it may well be that there are more countries than Norway that are concerned with this problem and that actually share the challenges that we also have. In all contexts, it is important to get a lot of money back for resources deployed. Of course, this is also the case in the field of research, and the whole Committee is also reasonably united in stating that it is important to get a lot of money back on the resources deployed and that it needs to be given greater emphasis in the future. This will involve redistribution, institutional changes and new incentives that encourage increased R & D efforts. The quality and prioritisation of research needs to be given greater emphasis. Higher education and research are needed not only to achieve the cross-political objective of the knowledge society but also to find solutions to key societal problems. Norway is likely to become a high-cost country in the foreseeable future, and it is therefore important to focus on skills and knowledge in order to secure the nutrient base in Norway in the years to come. This places great demands on the innovative nature of research policy and on the contribution of the efforts of the Storting and other public bodies to increasing R & D efforts. I don't know the rumors about SkattenFUNN, but I think it's interesting to notice that the Statistical Central Bureau recently evaluated the TaxFUNN system and found out that the system has been basically very successful, and that it works according to purpose. It's good, and there are many who have been concerned about this scheme, and who have benefited from it. It is therefore important that the further development of the scheme be seen in the context of this evaluation. It is also worth noting that during this ageing period, public research funds have increased by a total of DKK 3.5 billion. As I mentioned at the outset, the public research appropriations are fully in line with the appropriations in countries with which we cooperate/competitive. In many areas, Norwegian research has actually made good progress, for example: increased the number of scientific articles from Norwegian researchers by a total of 40 pst. from 2002 to 2006. The proposal from the Left on multiannual budgeting is interesting, but it belongs in a different context. There has also been a debate in the past, and then a majority did not support this. That's it -- we all want more predictability, but when it comes to the problem, it's hard to get to. I would like to join with all those who have expectations of the announcement of the scientific recruitment message that will be presented during 2008, when the need for renewed efforts in the field of research training will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1137	When the proposals are promoted in the way that it is done, from the Left and also from the Left and other parties -- I'm going back to it -- it's because we're all sitting together with the knowledge that we've gained by dealing with research issues. There's not a deafening pressure in the opinion to lift the research. The government is on the defensive and is trying to defend itself as best it can. The outgoing government council simply says that he has shown slides in the government to tell them what kind of effect was cut in the basic appropriations. The slide show, he says dry, did not have a sinful effect. Those of us who have some experience with different aspects of politics can even with such a relaxed, calm and sober state council as the current Minister of Research understands and reads what is the inner landscape. The internal landscape is such that there is no more pressure on this than that the government parties have an opposition trying to pacify them a little. You should be really happy for that. So it's like the reality description given here, the government parties like to deny, but it's the reality description that a combined Research Norway gives, whether you have a background in the university and higher education sectors, in business or where it might be. You can deny it, but then you approach the stage of happiness on the inside of the bubble, but you don't want to have contact with what's on the outside. I don't think it's like that. I think from the tone that you want to be as kind as you can, so let's go to the core of the suggestions. If you are very critical, there are at least four of these proposals that have nothing to do with budgetary procedure. As regards proposal No: One is to promote something that shows how to increase the strategic space for action. It's not on the budget. This can be done, for example. detailed management. In the current year's budget, the Research Council, which manages part of the Norwegian research funds and which is to advise the Government, has been cut off, and in addition, they are to the degrees of detail, so that they have almost no freedom to do anything. Yes, but it is a fundamental question that we can decide on regardless of what funds we have been allocated to a government conference or not? Proposal No. 2 is simply a question of whether or not the fund that has been built up should be used in such a way as to allow returns to be made on new measures or whether or not it should only be tied up to current operations, which have become a practice for the current government. It is strictly not a budgetary question either, but I understand that it has become so tight in the fight for funds that you cannot lower your shoulders on it either. Of course, you can discuss a stepping-up plan for construction, but I'll leave it. Proposal No. 6 I perceive that the government parties have expressed sympathy for. Then I get to say on behalf of all the proposers on the point that we have to wait for the Council of State's response. If the Council of State gives an answer that shows that there is an obligatory willingness to do something about it, of course it will be assessed by us who promote that proposal. We have different experiences with different state councils, but with the current state council, we have positive expectations, so at least I'm waiting for that answer. Then to the proposal for a budget over several years. Let's just draw our reasoning here: when you set up a center for excellent research, you don't set it up to bring in money next year. You know that it creates a so-called bond beyond the financial year, and we now have 21 of them. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, which has the same budgetary structure as Norway, there is something called a research proposition that extends over four years, and the Swedish research effort is about. 100 billion kroner. The public sector is approx. DKK 25 billion. This research proposition is about NOK 3-4 billion of this difficult amount. What you do in this way is you create predictability in some key areas. In other words, you know that you always want to sit with a large volume, unless there's going to be a disaster in society -- knocking in the pulpit, President. It's this way of thinking that's being taken up. That is what we already have in centres for excellent research, which is being promoted on this point. So a series of these questions are not dependent on budget. Then there are two ways to assess the rejection of government parties. Point 1: they don't want to. Point 2, which I think is the right one: there is so much pressure in the priorities of the budget heads that you don't want to open any flanks that can create a vulnerable pressure. At least it convinces me, and everyone else behind it, that it is necessary to keep the pressure up, because it is hardly easier for a research minister inside a government to get money to anything, if it is not a press. I then take up the suggestions that have been made. I am promoting the proposal No. 1-6 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. I am promoting proposal No. 7 on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I propose no. 8 on behalf of the Left. Then I await the state council's comment and response on proposal No. 6, which has been kindly described by, among others. Gerd Janne Kristoffersen from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1164	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1167	I would like to thank the representatives Dørum and Kongshaug for raising the debate on key issues in Norwegian research policy. I agree with those who have said that it is a question that can be debated often. The proposers promote seven concrete proposals on how to increase the strategic space for action in Norwegian research. These are proposals which, to a large extent, require budgetary follow-up and which, for this reason, I cannot respond specifically here and now. These are the rules of the game that I expect the proposers to know well. However, let me comment on some of the views and suggestions of the rapporteurs. Firstly, it is claimed that the Government lacks the ability and willingness to invest in research. But under this government, research appropriations have increased by DKK 3.5 billion. Measured at constant prices, over the course of these three years, growth is almost as high as over the whole of the previous four-year period. This development is full of what we usually compare with. I share the ambition of the proposers to further strengthen Norwegian research, but I do not agree with a description of reality that suggests that Norwegian research is slowing down. I am very proud of much of what is happening in Norwegian research. The proposers also call for an action space that allows for major strategic initiatives. I agree that this is an important consideration. In recent years, more such efforts have also been made. Among other things, there is considerable funding for research efforts in the context of the International Polar Year. The system of centres of excellence has been extended by eight new centres and a new system of centres of research driven innovation has been established. I also want to mention the climate agreement, which in itself provides a three-year space for action. The increased quota for participation in the 7th Framework Programme of the European Union has required considerable resources, but we also get a lot of exciting and important research out of this. All of these are larger bets such as, among other things, has been realised through an increased return from the Research and Innovation Fund in recent years. In other words, the research fund has become an important instrument for ensuring growth and long-term funding in Norwegian research. I notice that the proposers are going in to increase the fund's capital to NOK 100 billion and later to NOK 150 billion. The question of concrete increases in fund capital is, as I said, something that the Government has to come back to in budgetary terms. But I can assure you that the Government sees the Research Fund as an essential tool in strengthening research efforts. It is reflected in the Soria Moria statement, and it has been followed up in practice by the fact that this government has increased the fund capital from 36 billion kroner to 66 billion kroner, i.e. almost a double of three years. With regard to the use of the fund return, I would like to remind you that the fund has evolved from a small additional funding mechanism to a substantial source of funding. It is also natural for the Fund to finance broader objectives. It was confirmed in the latest research report, St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005: ‘The increased return on the Research Fund will contribute to the realisation of the overall priorities.’ I share the emphasis placed by the proposers on long-term and predictability in research funding. I believe that the Research Fund is an important instrument in this way, but of course I am willing to consider several measures that can contribute to more long-term and better planning through the use of public research funds. Scientific equipment and infrastructure is one example of investments that just require a long planning horizon. Here we have also received a strategy from the Norwegian Research Council, which has recently been delivered to the Department. This strategy identifies major needs and opportunities for investment in scientific equipment and infrastructure over the next decade. It also proposes a national division of labour and a process for assessing equipment investments. These are recommendations that the Government will include in the future assessment of the device and the level of equipment investment. In concrete terms, proposal No. 6 from the proposers, where one can see the model of national transport plan as a possible template, I think it is very interesting. I could imagine taking such a proposal further with me in the work of thinking more long-term. The proposers also support concrete extensions to the tax credit scheme for business research expenditure, the SkattenFUNN scheme, which has been discussed by many. I consider that scheme to be one of the most important means of strengthening industry's research efforts in Norway, especially for small, knowledge-based enterprises. For many of these enterprises, this is the first meeting of the instrument, and many TaxFUNN companies have used other support schemes in the next round to create new knowledge-based jobs. We will review the evaluation and, of course, will present the results of our renewed assessment to the Stortinget. All in all, the development of Norwegian research is more positive than one often gets the impression in the public debate, and I look forward to a constructive debate on how we can further strengthen research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1203	I think we have had a good debate. But it is clear that we could certainly have asked the Council of State a lot. In research and development, much remains to be done. One of the major appeals of the Advance Party is precisely the link between private business, academia and other institutions. We also see the need for motivated research and innovation to come into focus. The committee was visiting Sweden and got a lot of good recordings in that area. There are clear governance objectives. Will the Council of State do something similar in Norway, i.e. look at the possibility of raising needs-driven research and innovation and putting it in focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1210	We have some clear objectives in the research report we are now dealing with, which tells us what needs are important as a basis for research. In addition, the field of climate research and environmental research has been reinforced over the last few years as a type of research that is very much wanted in terms of monitoring and analysis. We also place a great deal of emphasis on business in research, and in the frontier country between research and innovation, we have a number of mechanisms that can stimulate an even better interaction between business and the state in terms of research efforts. It is an area that I am constantly working on, together with colleagues in the Government, and I hope that we can bring forward good, needs-driven innovation and good research results in the light of even more research, including from the business side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1217	In the course of the debate today, I have learned that the definition of funding for broader purposes is actually financing ongoing operations. It is argued by the Government that it is even more difficult to increase public research efforts, and therefore also to increase the strategic space for Norwegian research - despite the fact that the Government has NOK 130 billion. more in distribution than the previous government had in 2005. Nevertheless, we see that in another area within the Ministry of Knowledge, i.e. the kindergartens, which is an important purpose for which everyone supports, there is no problem in increasing contributions to kindergarten development and maxima by between DKK 3 and 3.5 billion from one year to the next. For 2008, Norway will use about SEK 17.8 billion for research purposes over the state budget and DKK 21.6 billion for kindergarten purposes. Why is it so difficult to increase research efforts accordingly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1224	I hope I can't perceive Eriksen Soreide so that she doesn't agree with the government's nursery schooling, because that's one of the things I'm really proud that the government has got. And I have to say that I'm hesitating to go into a direct comparison in terms of amounts, of bets on kindergartens and bets in other areas that are important to the Government. I can assure the representative Eriksen Soreide that there is a fight in all areas where the government wants more money, whether it is school, kindergarten or research. I'm responsible for research, and together with other government councils responsible for the same thing, we're doing what we can to get a good research. And we basically think that we've gotten quite a lot of work with, for example. a bet of SEK 1.2 billion more for research this year than we had the year before. I'm also concerned that the research we do is qualitatively good research. There's a balance between total and qualitative content that I'm constantly concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1231	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the developments we have seen in designating the returns of the research funds for specific purposes. Does not the Council of State not see that there is a wrong way to use the returns of these funds and that this means a clear weakening of the fund's original role and the Research Council's strategic room for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1236	There's been a development in the fund since it started, with a capital of NOK 3 billion, until now it's up to NOK 66 billion. It is quite natural that the principles for the use of the Fund are different today than they were when the Fund was set up. What I referred to in the paper where the fund was launched was that the increased return on the fund would help to realise the overall research policy priorities. It is not a matter of earmarking, but it is a matter of how we will finance important research in any budgetary context. I would also like to claim that there are important research contributions that have always been funded through the return of the Research Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1243	On January 9th this year, I had an interesting exchange of views with the Minister of Research here in the Chamber. I asked questions about strategic areas of action for research, and I specifically asked, as two out of three points, questions about securing a research fund where the yield can be used for major investments, unlike now, where it is tied up, and, as a last resort, whether it was willing to assess multi-annual budgets in key research areas. At that time, my question about the Council of State was willing to assess these instruments to look at the strategic space for action. And the answer is clear--unusually ready to be a Council of State response in the main hall: "I can actually answer yes to that question." So my question is, after these proposals have now been re-launched today and are voted down by the government parties - it concerns proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 7, I will leave the proposal for basic appropriations: with regard to these points, shall I perceive that it is still such that the Council of State considers these areas to be essential to consider in terms of the strategic space for Norwegian research?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1252	That was what I thought we had discussed this before, and I can confirm what I said in the debate in January. In the meantime, there has not been a budgetary reason in which this naturally belongs, but it detracts neither me nor the representative Dørum from the commitment that these matters are unusually important in order to get a good and forward-looking research -- that we can look a little further ahead than just to each budget. It's a strenuous exercise. We're not connected like this. Sweden and Denmark at this point. They have a different tradition for this. But I want, since Dørum is concerned about this, to praise both him and the other opposition parties who were involved in the climate agreement, because there you have actually managed to get to a three-year run on research. So it's a good model, along with the others I've mentioned, so it should still be possible to get something that's a little more long-term. I hope we can do it, but of course I can't promise anything here and now. It is an important goal for me that we get predictability in what is the research policy space.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1260	Long-termity and predictability in research are very important. That is why, in this position, two proposals have now been put forward to that effect, both proposal No. 6 and proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox As regards proposal No: 7, we only experience a remark from the government parties, pointing to the Bondevik government's rejection of the Committee on Budgets' proposal. But in the case of proposal No. 6, we have heard here today that both the Labour Party and the Central Party, as well as the Council of State, have a sense of that proposal. My question is then whether the government parties are willing to vote for it, whether the government council recommends it, or whether it should be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1267	If I were to be allowed to answer briefly and correctly, I would prefer that it be turned into a transmission proposal, and that we could then work on it in the context to which I just referred in relation to the question from the representative of Dørum. So I would recommend that it be a transmission proposal, but it is of course quite up to Stortingen to decide in what way you will deal with their proposals. This is an interesting proposal, and it is exciting to be able to compare it with the national transport plan. Of course, also where budgets are adopted each year, but there is a long-term outlook on planning. So it could be like this, for example. in relation to this with equipment, be an interesting approach angle. So I look forward to possibly being able to evaluate it in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1274	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1279	On a Friday and in the last case, I will not fall for the temptation to repeat what has been said earlier, but I refer to the excellent posts of the representative of Dørum in relation to the background to this proposal. What I want, on the other hand, is to highlight and underline the relationship between research and the future welfare society that we all want. A few days ago, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade received a report showing that there have been far fewer entrepreneurs in recent years. 6.5 pst. of the adult population aged between 18 and 64 were involved in entrepreneurial activity last year. There is a decrease of approx. 30 pst. in relation to the previous year, and the proportion is the lowest since 2000. It's an alarming but not a surprising trend. In my opinion, we have a government that has not shown the will to facilitate private business, self-employed and entrepreneurs, but is concerned with state ownership and symbolism policies to ‘take the rich’. The welfare society of the future depends on an innovative business. Future jobs are not yet created. The left will have policies that support innovators and entrepreneurs, and research, education and tax systems are important prerequisites for achieving those objectives. We must have a business that dares bet, and we must have public instruments to facilitate it. Therefore, it is essential that the high-cost country of Norway put in place strong and necessary economic instruments for research and development to underpin the growth of new and forward-looking jobs. Research and research results require overall strategies and long-term thinking. It can't be one from day to day thinking. That is why the Left's proposal today on greater long-termity in the thinking about research is an important proposal. In this respect, I would also like to thank the Council of State for its consistently positive feedback on the proposal. Then we also understand that everything cannot be kicked in the Stortinget, without looking at it in the context of budgets etc. But there is a expectation of greater predictability from the Left in terms of research efforts. What happened to the TaxFUNN system, a system that worked well, and with which the business community was very pleased, was regrettable. I expect it to be corrected already in the context of the revised national budget and when the so-called evaluation is over. I just want to end by reminding you that research, innovation and entrepreneurship are closely related.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1294	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there is a difference between the traditions of Norway and other countries. Now I pointed to a system of a kind of long-term budgeting for research that you de facto have at the Centre for Excellent Research, although it is not formal. That's what you do. We know it'll run out in a few years. The government used an example that I chose not to use, but which is good, namely the agreement that was the result of the climate agreement between the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where a commitment was made. In this context, there are three proposals that have been put forward today, which go in the same direction. One proposal is that of a long-term budget. I'm not commenting on that. The other two proposals are as follows: That is proposal No. 1, which is simply an invitation to a fundamental review. In fact, I am surprised that this proposal does not receive support because it does not involve any commitment. It's an opening to look at a review. I will be very careful to address the debate that has arisen in the Chamber on the proposal to look at a possible ‘sibling child’ of the national transport plan - proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox There the council replied in the first round that she would take it further. Then she was challenged by the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, who asked if she wanted it as a transmission proposal. Then the council said it could be a possible idea. She said it was an interesting suggestion. I think that we, who are behind the proposal, would like to hear the Council of State clarify more clearly what makes it interesting for her that we should let it become a transmission proposal, because we have nothing to lose on the rejection of the proposals if the Council of State still wants to take the idea further. That is the way the Council of State thinks about this, which is crucial for how the proposals will be dealt with. I have taken the floor to invite the Council of State to say something more, because this may be the point in this long list of proposals where there is the possibility of creating a closer contact point between the government parties and the opposition parties in the hall. I think the Council of State had some promising advances, but progress must also have a good impact if we are to move on with what has been formulated as a topic by several representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1305	I expect the representative Dørum to see the limitations that lie in responding to this at a very short notice. My main starting point is that these are thoughts that I've been into myself, because I've been looking for models and other instruments that have in themselves a slightly longer-term perspective. I know that it is a challenge in relation to everything that goes on in the longer term, that the budget itself cannot be tied up for more than a year at a time, and that is not done in the national transport plan either. But there's a plan that goes a little bit further than that. So I've been thinking, in particular, of a strategy for equipment - and that's also what the Research Council has come up with in its input to the Department - is a similar way of acting in terms of the national transport plan. If I had received such a proposal, I would take it seriously, and of course I would also take the opportunity to say that proposal no. 1 would really be a similar incentive for me. It's a little bit about the same thing. I understand very well that it is impossible to be concrete here, not least because we are just dealing with these things in budgetary terms. But as a possible part of a strategy to get a little more long-term thinking and thus give this strategic space of action, I would have appreciated getting these recordings so that with even greater weight, I could consider this as solutions within the Norwegian research system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1314	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1317	I think the Council of State answered so well in an open 'colloquie group' at the main hall that proposal No. 6 in consultation with the proposers, a transmission proposal shall be made immediately. Since I am a member of the Church, and we are approaching the Church's birthday, namely Pentecost, we also have to make proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal - in the sense that there should be some good spirit here. We do not interfere with the other spirit, we have to deal with each other when we get that far, but in the parliamentary spirit I am making proposals on behalf of the proposers. 1 and 6 on transmission proposals. I feel that the Council of State stretched out a hand, and it is foolish not to receive a hand in a field where there is a need for the most possible alliances to get results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1326	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, has referred to the proposal No. 1 and 6 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, for transmission proposals. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3247]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1336	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1344	During the debate, Svein Flätten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government, as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget, promote the necessary amendments to the Entrepreneurship Pensions Act in order to eliminate discrimination between private and public occupational pensions in respect of access to disability pension while receiving short-term benefits from the public interest.’.» The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1385	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the implementation of a five-year general teacher training as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2008.’ The voting boards showed that there were 0 votes in favour and 2 votes against the proposal of the Progress Party and the Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.52.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1406	The vote will be taken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1418	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the framework for general teacher training as soon as possible in order to ensure that it is up to date in relation to the Knowledge Lift.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1449	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 8, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 1st and 6th transmission proposals, and the text is amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended to the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2009 State Budget, to propose ways of increasing the strategic space for action in Norwegian R & D.’.» Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine the establishment of a governance and planning instrument according to the national transport plan model also in the research sector.’;» [[NTP]] The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any discussion of the matter. - It is deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to increase the Research and Innovation Fund to 100 billion. kronor, as a gradual escalation to a fund stock of 150 billion. crowns in 2010, at the latest in the context of the 2009 State budget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1490	There is a vote on Amendment No 7, tabled by the Progressive Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for multi-annual budgeting trials in key research areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1505	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to clarify the guidelines for the use of the Research and Innovation Fund’s returns, in order to ensure that the returns are used for strategic purposes.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reverse the implemented cut in basic appropriations to universities and colleges of 274,3 million. crowns, corrected for general economic growth, in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote an obliging escalation plan for investment in research infrastructure [[construction, equipment, etc.]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme by reintroducing aid for unremunerated research efforts, increasing hourly rates and limits and committing itself to the further development of the scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-09.ana.ud1168e1576	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
