ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e43	The representatives of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Torstein Rudihagen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Vest-Agder County, Sigmund Kroslid, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e60	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Anders Anundsen and Solveig Horne. Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Anders Anundsen and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents of today's and tomorrow's meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e80	When I went to school for something that feels like an eternity ago, I experienced for the first time that one of my fellow students would travel to a place where you could sunbathe and bathe while there was still winter in Norway. While I was skiing during my winter vacation in the school, my fellow student was in the Canary Islands and the bath. This was my first meeting with this exotic place. Today we will hardly call the Canary Islands particularly exotic. Traveling around much of the world on vacation has become increasingly common. And more and more Nordics travel, work or move for a short or longer time to other countries. These developments indicate that the legislation in this area must be up-to-date and be able to adequately address the interests of Nordics living abroad. Feedback suggests that most of the laws and regulations applicable to Nordics living permanently or temporarily in other countries are outdated or not adapted to the present and future. At the same time, the different legislations on moving within the Nordic region, within an EEA country or outside an EEA country differ, which, of course, further complicates the picture. I would like to stress that with this interpellation I am not necessarily the most concerned with errors, weaknesses and unfair aspects of the law, but that it is almost even more important that good and correct information is given to all those who leave our country for a shorter or longer period of time. The enquiries and content of these show that some people themselves have to bear the responsibility for getting into trouble. One must, of course, be able to assume that the majority of people are involved in the legislation and admit that by moving, they will have reduced rights in relation to the rights they have as a Norwegian national of their own country. At the same time, it is beyond doubt that legislation is very unclear in many areas, even unfairly. When you constantly experience that people have been given some kind of information before they move, which turns out to be wrong in retrospect, this is a serious problem for those who experience this. It is my view and that of the Progress Party that we, as politicians, have obligations to clean up this. It's too easy to say that this only applies to a few. The problem is increasing as people move and the internationalisation of the labour market. I'll do some examples. An age pensioner moves to Sweden, but works a little in Norway. He contacts Sweden to get a health card. There he is refused on the grounds that he taxes to Norway. He applies to Norway for a health card and is refused on the grounds that he lives in Sweden. We even made a ringing round about this, and finally found out that Norway was going to give health cards. But figuring out this wasn't a very simple problem. You actually get different answers depending on who you ask. Another example is about a Norwegian lady with a small child. She also chooses to move to Sweden. She also works in and taxes to Norway. In advance, she had been informed by NAV that she still wanted all her social security rights because she worked in Norway and taxed Norway. After moving out, it turned out not to be that simple anyway. Her papers were sent from the office to the office and ended with rejection. At the same time, Sweden says that she has no social security rights, on the grounds that she taxes Norway. Of course, for each user, this is hopeless. As an example, I can't wait to remind the Council of State of the case of the 56-year-old who had worked in and taxed Norway for 30 years, but who, after a stay abroad, as a misioner, was hit in Norway and declared unfit for work. This man had lived and worked in Norway for less than two months a short time ago, so that he could have a disability. He stood on a barside without any income despite having paid a social security fee for 30 years. No one had told him that this could happen, when he moved out for a period. A unanimous decision has been taken to review this rule, but the Council of State has not followed it up in line with the wording of the Decision. Several people who have been hit by this law paragraph are waiting, along with the Advancement Party, impatiently for the follow-up of the Council of State. The examples are actually many and very serious for the individual. It was therefore the Progress Party promoted Document No. 8:96 for 2005-2006 on the protection of the interests of Norwegian citizens abroad. At the time, I claimed that these emigrators are struggling to figure out the legislation, that the legislation in place is difficult to understand, that they get different answers when they go to public offices, and that several of the regulations are perceived as very unreasonable. This image has not changed. At that time, the Right Party, Left Party and Christian Party stated that there might be a need for some better information. Apart from this, none of the other parties considered the issues raised by the Progress Party to be a problem. A comment from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in connection with the processing of that document pointed out that detailed and adequate information was provided both in paper form and in electronic media. My first two examples show that the detailed and adequate information is actually not good enough. By entering nav.no abroad you can try to read the necessary information before moving out. There's an innumerable number of laws and rules about a very large number of conditions. The problem is that in most places it says, ‘you want as a general rule’, or ‘may in certain cases’, and ‘may apply’ and finally, ‘you don’t initially have a claim’. These are just a few examples. Almost all the information on these pages contains such formulations and in my opinion creates uncertainties and misinterpretations. After the essays on Gro Harlem Brundtland lately, I hope that the councils may have a greater need to get into the dilemmas I'm sketching. As Document No 8:96 for 2005-2006 was dealt with, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen wrote in a letter of 29 September 2006 on the tax rules applicable to Nordics abroad, that with the new rules: ‘have been given clear and unambiguous rules to persons wishing to emigrate.’;» And on the other hand, ‘It is also not particularly problematic that many emigrated Northmen become taxable for some time both in Norway and in the Member State of relocation.’ [[...]] The Minister of Finance therefore considered that there was no need to address the issue of tax emigration. I wondered about this at the time, because of course it's a problem for most people to have to pay taxes to two countries at the same time. We now see that while people who move abroad have to pay taxes to two countries, others can move out without paying taxes at all. We see that while some people struggle that they do not receive health rights either in Norway or in the country of relocation, other health services are provided in both countries. We cannot be aware of a regulatory framework that makes such a difference and, in part, of major differences. I would like to know what the Council of State can do with this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e131	Let me just start by saying that I agree with the interpellant Kari Kjønaas Kjos that this is an important matter, regardless of the events of the last few days. I'm also in the situation that I get a lot of requests on these questions. This has not been linked to former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, but there have been many enquiries since I started as a government council in this department over two years ago. This is, of course, due to the fact that moving abroad, or staying abroad, can have a major impact on the individual’s rights in the public interest. At the same time, the rules in this area are very complex and, in some cases, the effects of a stay abroad can only be determined by assessing the specific circumstances. In some cases, membership of the population can be maintained during the stay abroad, while in other cases it is immediately lost. Similarly, membership may in some cases confer full rights under the law, while in other cases only limited coverage is granted. Access to social security benefits will also vary depending on the type of benefit, the country in which you live, and whether you have a social security membership. There are a number of provisions of the People's Security Act that have an impact on the effects of living abroad. In addition, social security contracts will affect the rights of individuals, as they may derogate from the law. The rules, whether law or agreement, may also differ according to the group of persons to which they belong, i.e. whether you are an employee, a student, a pensioner, a family member, etc. The regulatory framework in this area is under continuous observation and a general objective is as simple and understandable as possible. However, in this area it may appear difficult and complex. Complexity is largely due to the interaction with similar rules in other countries and international agreements coordinating different country arrangements. Therefore, changes that contribute to significant simplifications may address significant challenges. The Employment and Welfare Act is responsible for information aimed at the public and the individual user. Information in the field of foreign affairs is available on the Internet site, as is information in the other areas of the department. However, the complexity of the legislation implies that information in the field of foreign affairs is subject to very special requirements. Information aimed at the public must necessarily be general and must not cover all special cases and exceptions. The general public information should, however, cover the general rules and also point to points where there is a need to address the issues more closely. The need for detailed information will of course vary greatly from case to case. Knowledge of the consequences of moving, etc. to the rest of the world may vary considerably. For example, workers posted from larger enterprises for work abroad will often be well-informed about the consequences in the field of social security, because the enterprises ensure that they have up-to-date knowledge of this or use advisors who have the necessary knowledge. For others, e.g. Of course, pensioners who want to move to a country like Spain will initially be much more limited, and the apparatus they have will not be comparable to that of employees in larger Norwegian enterprises. As the legislation is comprehensive and complex, it is very important that individuals contact the Employment and Welfare Unit in advance in order to clarify the impact of the move on social security and benefits. Then it is that the State of Labour and Welfare shall provide the user with the necessary, relevant and correct information. Moving abroad is a major and significant step for most people. Responsibility for the decision to do so on a proper and adequate basis must lie primarily with the individual. It is important that the establishment has updated and easily accessible information and has adequate opportunities for personal advice. As you know, the State of Labour and Welfare is today an establishment in which all aspects of the division of tasks between different units have not yet been fully clarified. The Ministry has previously pointed out the importance of accurate and complementary information in the field of foreign affairs and has asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to review its procedures, so that the information of persons moving abroad is as good as possible. The Directorate has now examined all aspects of the proceedings in NAV Abland. The review also covers resource needs in this area. A reorganisation work will be undertaken focusing on the competence of key user groups. These days, the Directorate’s information pages are also updated online. The information shall be clear and understandable and shall provide answers to the most common questions raised by the public. In a short time, equivalent information shall be published in English. I must say I am satisfied with what is now happening in NAV, and I feel absolutely that NAV is taking the situation seriously. For the sake of order, I would like to end by stating that the information responsibility of the Norwegian authorities has to be essentially concerned with the consequences of foreign residence in relation to Norwegian rules. What individuals can expect in the country of relocation must first be examined with the authorities there. Each country will have its own social security websites on a regular basis, often in English, and there is also a base of EU rules. Currently, a Nordic social insurance portal is also being worked on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e159	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, which I think very clearly showed how complex this issue is. It wasn't very soothing. I think I spend a lot of my working time on enquiries from people who have come up in difficult situations when it comes to this. I'm not going to be a case handler, but I'm a little curious by nature, and in many of these enquiries I think what they're sketching is so strange that I have to dig in it to see if it really is. Very often, it's like this. The only thing I can comfort myself with is that it's instructive for me, and then I get to keep stressing this a little bit because I think it's part of the code that also needs to be looked at a little bit more closely. I am a little disappointed that the Council of State did not comment on the matter of those who have been disabled after living abroad for a few years. There are three pieces that call me at regular intervals to hear where the matter is. All they really do is sit and wait for their old age pension and in the meantime get help from the social office to get life to go around to retirement. - That's important. I think this issue is very complex, because it is about pension rights, social security rights, health-related rights and taxes. There are several areas of action, and then we have different rules depending on which country you move to. There are different rules for how long you must have lived abroad before the rules apply. I think it's pretty hopeless to get really cleaned up in this. I hope at least that people can trust the information that is given when you ask for it, and that the answer they get is consistent with reality on the day the problem arises. At the same time, it is not always easy to know what to ask in advance. What can happen when I live abroad? You don't always think the worst. Many times you may not have thought that what happened could happen, and you never asked. So this is a complex thing, and I'm happy to hear the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e170	You don't have to move abroad to realize that the People's Security Act can be difficult and challenging. You can live in Norway all your life and yet find it demanding. Once, as Minister of Agriculture, I was working on the agricultural agreement, I thought I had been lost to some of the most difficult legislation and contract work in Norway. That's what I thought until I started working with the people's fear and the people's peace of mind. I tend to say that then the agricultural agreement appears to be a slight evening change in relation. So it's clear that there are complex issues, precisely because life is diverse -- not least when you're moving abroad. The questions then are: are we moving there as a worker, as a pensioner, as a student, as a family member? Where do we move? Do we move to the North, to which we have long historical cooperation relations? Are we moving to Europe, with which we have the EEA Agreement, or are we moving to another country, with which we might have a social security agreement? So whether you move as an employee, a pensioner or a student, and just by country and by contract situation, we see the complexity of it. Then there are also questions about social security, about pensions, old-age pensions, about health, about taxes. So I don't think we should have any illusion that this is a simple regulation. I don't think we can have any illusion that it's possible to simplify it violently either. We don't have to give up the ambition to simplify, we have to do the simplifications that are possible, but I think we're going to be realists. We can, of course, believe that Europe should have changed its rules in the area of social security in important areas, but it is not certain that the Greeks agree with that. So we do not sit in the Councils of Ministers of the European Union and participate in the votes that determine Europe's position on the various issues. I think we have to live with complexity, and then we can have ambitions to simplify as much as possible. But I very much agree with the interpellant that it increases the requirements of NAV and the people who work with these questions in NAV, their ability to both intervene in the legislation, understand the legislation and communicate the legislation in a way that allows individuals to take responsibility for themselves on a knowledge basis that is good. That's the heart of the matter. After the reviews NAV has now had, they say that the work has not been well organized to date. There has been insufficient use of resources on it and therefore there is now both a reorganisation and a strengthening of work in NAV. At the same time, if we choose to move from Norway to another country, it has consequences. It should not be unknown, at least not for the Progress Party, that people are primarily responsible for themselves. You have to remember to check all these things before making as big and important decisions in your life as getting a new country of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e179	This interpellation has been shown to have a much greater topicality than I think the interpellant saw separately when the interpellation was promoted. I am thinking not least of the public attention and debate of the last few weeks relating to former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. This is a completely complicated matter. There is hardly any person who should initially be expected to have a better understanding of the rules than Gro Harlem Brundtland, with its background. I am pleased that the Council of State in its statement was so clear that the legislation is complicated, and that he also explained in a good way why it is complicated. It's true, as the Council of State points out, moving abroad is a big and important decision, but I think a lot of people are not aware of the possible consequences. Then the question is, how can the authorities and the apparatus that we have assist in advance, so that everyone who moves abroad is actually aware of the consequences it can have for their own rights? If the knowledge of possible consequences is sufficient and good enough in advance, the individual also has a greater chance of taking a well-founded choice of moving or not. With regard to recent developments, we have seen that this has gained a large amount, and it is going to increase even more in the years to come. There's something about social development that tells us that the importance of the countries is getting smaller and smaller, distances are getting smaller and smaller, it's getting easier both to move abroad and to travel, and then it's important that the rules follow. But as our welfare society is linked, there must be a connection between rights and obligations. If you are to benefit from the welfare community's services, you also have to pay taxes. It's an important principle. Now the Council of State stated that complexity is large for many reasons, not only because the legislation in Norway is complex, but also because the legislation in the country to which it is moved can be complex and quite far different from the legislation to which it is used. It depends to a large extent on which country you move to. As far as Gro Harlem Brundtland's case is concerned, it has not only been said that the legislation is different from the country to which you move, but it is also important to what group you belong to - whether you are a pensioner, a worker, a student or a family member. In that case, it has proved very important what kind of retired person you are. There are tax exemptions for state pensioners, but only for state pensioners, not other pensioners. It came as a big surprise to me. I think it is absolutely impossible to explain in substance why this should be so. But I understand that it should be corrected in. That's good. Finally, I would like to say that any proposal for simplification and clarification of the legislation that may come from the Government and the Council of State will receive the Right's support. But it's obvious that there has to be a connection between rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e198	The representative, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, asks in the interview what can be done to improve the information of those travelling abroad for a period exceeding the 12-month rule for membership of the population. The representative of Kjenaas Kjos is entitled to see that the consequences for social rights of longer stays abroad can be considerable and that those who choose such stays must therefore be aware of the rules in force. It is particularly important to stay outside the EEA area, where the right to, for example: the coverage of health expenditure may lapse if you do not have private health insurance. The problem of lack of knowledge of social rights I would assume is greatest among the group of age or disability pensioners who take their pension with them and move abroad temporarily or permanently. I would assume that people with study or employment are more likely to check their social security rights and get help from the employer, the study place or the organisations of foreign students. But that does not mean, of course, that one should ignore the need for better information also to this group. For those who have experience in the use of data, there shall not be very many keystrokes on the Internet before a relatively detailed description of the foreign residence legislation, both within and outside the EEA territory, for students, workers and pensioners is found on the NAV website. The telephone is also a widely used tool in all age groups, and the information is available by telephone. NAV is also relatively widely represented throughout the country in a geographical sense, so it should not be very difficult to obtain relevant and correct information for applicants. The problem is that others do not know that they need this information, and unfortunately the information has been unclear and incomplete. Each person has the primary responsibility to obtain information about his or her social security rights. The task of the public authorities is to ensure that the information is easily accessible and easily understood, and that you are serviced on the telephone or face-to-face. Employees must be trained and the information provided must be precise so as to avoid the examples pointed out by the interpellant. The main challenge is to make the information more concrete, so as to avoid misunderstandings. We need to pay more attention to this, especially among pensioners who leave, so that they actually seek the information where it is to be found. It is, unfortunately, a fact that many go for longer stays abroad without even realizing that it may have consequences for their social security rights. Many practical and concrete measures may still be taken to increase awareness of this among those leaving. Among other things, there may be closer dialogue with companies that provide longer stays abroad. They can help refer the individual to places where information is found. Contact with pensioners’ organisations or advertising in the media that are used in experience by those groups where the information challenge is greatest may be a different approach. I am pleased with the attitude of the Council of State towards the issue. I trust that he will continue to work on this challenge in cooperation with NAV abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e215	Universally designed and rights-based healthcare is a good thing for most Nordics, although we can often be critical of some of the content of services. That the security of access to doctors, medicines and hospital services is quite independent of the thickness of the wallet is a well-being we are grateful for. The representative of Kjenaas Kjos addresses a question that is derived from the safety of health services as the rights we have when the problems arise. As Norwegian citizens, we expect all rights to be reserved wherever in the world we currently live and taxes. So it's not exactly like that, and there's every reason to focus on how we're going to help people who live and/or work abroad over a slightly longer period of time. As the Council of State pointed out in its reply, in most cases we are well assured by the agreements established and the rights resulting from the membership of the people's security. The possibilities of securing by paying to the public in case of longer stays abroad, with which we have special agreements, are not unreasonable if we do not pay ordinary taxes to Norway. The problem is that many do not overlook the consequences of relocation and do not safeguard their interests until difficulties arise. It's hard to blame the state for that. At the bottom, there must be a requirement for individuals living abroad for a longer period of time to inform themselves about the arrangements in force. It has to be at the bottom, and we don't have to ask questions about that requirement. At the same time, as the authorities, we have an ongoing responsibility for open and easy access to information and also an ongoing assessment of the functioning of arrangements and agreements we have with other countries. It is timely to raise the question in this room, because there is always a good opportunity to make useful work better and good information significantly more accessible. I believe that all of us sitting in this room have received enquiries from people who have come into difficulties because they have not ensured themselves a good enough overview of a code they have not thought would mean anything in particular to them, that they did not at all reflect on the fact that the accident or health problems could occur. For this group, it's increasingly important that we be able to warn people, so that they can be briefed before you travel, that you think in advance. And there are also people who move abroad planned, just to take care of their own health. I have been confronted for myself with surprises that have met people who are strongly recommended by the health authorities to live in other climatic conditions, and who may have been told that there may be a need for them to take care of their health, and who have visited the social security authorities and intended to have received the information they needed, but who then felt that it was not all they needed. There were situations when the information they had did not stretch in relation to the situation they themselves came up with. I know that it's impossible to secure a hundred percent. It is also important to know that there is the kind of wording in the legislation that the representative, Mr Kjenaas Kjos, pointed out, that there is a certain possibility of assessment, that there is a certain possibility of discretion, that it is possible to go into and look at the kind of information that has been given to him - and the assumptions that may not have been sufficiently informed - and that makes it necessary also to show discretion and willingness to help in a system that can be completely unforeseeable if one does not get out of it. So the rule must be, the responsibility is our own. The responsibility of the authorities is good information. And finally, we're laying the foundations of human considerations and the discretionary considerations that are possible within this area. Then most people will get pretty good out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e234	Interpellant Kjønaas Kjos addresses a problem that affects some Nordics. There are several Nordics who choose to live outside Norway - and many, as mentioned earlier, on climatic grounds in the light of their own health situation. This and similar issues have been the subject of debate in Stortinget once in recent years. Similar issues have also been debated in the media in recent years, such as, for example: The representative Engeset was inside. The interpellant has some points. It is important that the information is easily accessible so that all those considering living and working outside Norway can easily obtain the necessary information. There are two main soundings relating to public health care: those living in the EEA territory and those staying outside. The Council of State gave a good account of the legislation covering health expenditure in its statement. A lot of people study, work and live abroad. In many cases it will be easier to inform in enterprises or in other work contexts. Then there will be more consistent information you can provide. As the interpellant said, this is a very complex problem, and it's a matter of course that you have good enough information. But it's clear that you don't get away from the fact that each individual has a self-responsive responsibility to get information. As many people have come up with, that information is obviously complex, but the self-responsibility is a matter of course in my view. A number of people have argued that there is a complex regulatory framework, and one must assume that the scope will not be reduced in the years to come. We have a more globalized society, so more will travel and stay abroad for longer periods of life. This will also set greater requirements for NAV, which the Council of State had in mind, so that a person is able to inform well enough. Many have been involved in complexity. I would like us to have a simplification, which has also been mentioned by others, that the legislation is as understandable as possible, so that each one has the opportunity to get involved in it, and that one can inform well enough. Of course, the responsibility here is also necessary. It is not possible to shift all responsibility over to the state. This is a self-reliance, which is absolutely necessary. When you choose to travel abroad, it is clear that each person is responsible for getting involved in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e249	The council said the information has not been good enough, and the capacity has not been good enough. If both of these things are improved, at least that's something I'm very happy about. It is absolutely necessary for individuals to know that the information they receive is, in fact, correct when the situation arises. Two of the examples in my post showed that it was checked in advance, and after moving, it turned out that the reality was different. Both of those matters have been taken up by big business representatives and dug in, and both of them have actually got a solution. But you get different answers-- I've tested it out. I have taken samples - called various social security offices and asked for the same and received different answers. It becomes hopeless if you call one office, get one answer, trust it, and have it in the back of your head when you move out. It's a very important part of this complex question that we've been discussing now. I meet, like the Right, proposals for simplifications and/or improvements in both the legislation and the piece of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e256	Just a few closing comments from my side. Let me just first take up one of the last things that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos said - that you call their local social security office and feel that case handlers give different answers. I believe that one of our challenges now is to make it very clear to both NAV staff and people who are looking for information, that we are not able to have full competence in the whole complexity of this at 431 NAV offices in Norway. Many of the NAV offices may, for that matter, consist of one person from the state side. The most important thing is that that person is very clear and clear that you have to refer to it. And that's what we're about to do -- get a drilled NAV abroad, which can really give the eaten information to the individual. My second point, which is also important to emphasise, is that when you apply for information from the state, we do not apply to ANA for knowledge, we do not have to run a black player game where we say, "But you didn't ask for it!" We have an obligation on the part of the authorities to base the conversation, and we should understand as employees that he needs information. Although he/she does not specifically ask about the complexity of the whole case, we should have employees in NAV who understand that he/she needs information even if it is not asked. This has been communicated very clearly to NAV, and I do not feel that there is resistance in the NAV system to what I am now saying. This is also why NAV is now reorganising, intensifying its efforts, both practical, organisational and resource-related, in order to get to the point where, to the extent that Nordics abroad are faced with difficult situations, it should at least not be due to poor service, poor information or unprofessional management by the authorities. In this way I think it is very nice that the interpellant addressed this matter on a general basis. This has also given us the opportunity to have an important debate, which I am going to make NAV aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e268	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e281	When we get numbers that tell us that men live six to seven years shorter on average than women, when we get numbers that tell us that men live twelve years shorter in some eastern parts of Oslo than in the west, when we have figures that tell us that between the ages of 45 and 60, there are five times as high mortality among men with low incomes as among men with high incomes, when we know that men are hit on average 10 to 15 years earlier by cardiovascular diseases than women, there is reason to ask why men have shorter life expectancy, are affected earlier by serious illness than women, and why there are also major social differences in life and disease rates among men. It is very good that over some years now we have had a strong focus on female health. We should definitely continue to do that, but we should also pay more attention to the particular health and disease situation of men. I think there's little reason to spend time on what there's been any research and discussion about-- whether there may be biological/genetic differences between men and women behind this. I want first of all now to go into factors that we can do something about, and factors that we can all be rid of in our everyday lives. The well-known male ‘wieldy culture’, which I would call it, where you shouldn’t be a hypo customer, where you’re going to tolerate a noise, where you think it’s going over, and that disease is nothing to talk about, has a lot of positive about avoiding being hit by excessive fear or anxiety for disease, but it can also get unfortunate results. It's probably almost like that, as many of us have experienced, that what we've been able to talk about in terms of disease is football injuries, but little else. Guys both in high school and especially in high school use health wards to a much less extent than girls do, and we also see a picture that men use the fixed medical system less and sometimes it looks like some kind of failure to go to a doctor or have to be away from work because of illness. This may go well for many years for most, but when age requires it, there may also be hazards by not being aware enough of symptoms of disease and taking it seriously. These include: So that it is primarily after 20 and perhaps 30 years of smoking that the dangers of smoking and smoking combined with high alcohol consumption really go out too far in serious illness. In the 1960s it was up to 70 pst. by the people who smoked, without us claiming that all there are safe statistics today, and then far fewer women. This, combined with the fact that many in the same generation of people, especially in the traditional working class, have been exposed to poor working conditions for many years with dust, gas and solvents and have lived in residential environments with roads with increasing traffic and pollution, are factors that have been eliminated in many ways now. We can see it from the picture in the case of COLS -- we can almost call it a COLS epidemic -- where in particular those with short education are affected. I think the number now is about 10 pst. among those with only primary schools that have received different stages of COLS, about 200,000 people in Norway. 2,000 die every year from acute COPD, and here men are strongly overrepresented. Spirometry can be prevented by having readily available examination apparatus in relation to the pre-existing COPD/airway diseases in permanent medical centres, possibly in pharmacies. Better measures should also be taken when detecting COLS to keep it in check. We should have a lot more rehabilitation sites -- I think the number is down to 200 places now. When we look at the extent of this epidemic, this disease, it is clear that it requires much greater effort in terms of rehabilitation and opportunities to live with the disease and keep it at a level that does not lead to acute COPD and life-threatening. The same applies to lung cancer. For many of those who have COPD, the next stage can be lung cancer. In any case, COPD patients are a large part of the risk group. It now dies approx. 2,200 p.m. years of lung cancer in Norway, of which at least 1 300 men. This is 21 pst. of all male cancers. Pulmonary cancer has reached 90 pst. mortality. It has to be discovered earlier. I think one of two important measures here is to have screening of the most vulnerable groups. CT screening of COPD patients and of older long-term smokers can be performed. We should try this out in some areas to see if we can detect lung cancer earlier and have it treated at a stage when it can be cured. And we should make smoking withdrawal courses more part of our healthcare system. It should be included as a permanent part of their working tools to conduct smoke-removal courses for patients at risk. Still it's 40 pst. smoking, including: in eastern parts of Oslo. Traffic loads and pollution in living environments are increasing, so we must not be fooled by the fact that the problems of respiratory diseases, COPD and lung cancer are going to be decreasing in the coming years. What men talk even less about is their pelvic diseases, or various urological health disorders. The most common form of cancer in Norway, which is about one third of all cancers among men are prostate cancer. It affects about 3,800 men a year, and compared to other countries, we have a high mortality rate in prostate cancer. That's 20-30 pst. which dies after five years. After ten years there's a much larger part that's gone away, then often in combination with other diseases, so it's said that you die with prostate cancer and not just with it. But I'm going to warn against de minimis prostate cancer for that reason. There were thousands of prostate cancer cases in 2006 among men under 65 years of age, and when you die from the spread of prostate cancer, it is a very painful and serious condition you get. We need better treatment and better prevention of prostate cancer. I have received letters from different patients after I reported this interview, and among other things. a problem many address is, as it says in a letter: I have learned that there may be a lack of knowledge of the doctor as to what to do when prostate cancer is found, whether to take surgery, radiation or nothing. In the case of breast cancer, the procedures are clear but not in the case of prostate cancer. We also see from the treatment picture that there are different practices in different companies and in different parts of the country. Something that is harmless even more is benign prostate enlargement. Up to 25 pst. of men over 40 years of age have symptoms of this, and you get acute chronic urinary arrest, urinary leakage, etc., which are serious problems to live with, and which we should take more seriously when it comes to telling about the symptoms and treating them. Intervention and treatment of prostate enlargement and prostate cancer often result in patients losing fertility and loss of erection capacity, thereby greatly reducing their ability to have a normal sexual life. I have also received a number of enquiries after this interpellation was reported, from patients who address that issue, feel that they are losing confidence, feel that they cannot talk about this with anyone, hardly enough with their own doctors, and feel that this problem is underestimated when it comes to, among other things. assessment of the medicinal products they should receive, what should be on individual/general reimbursement, on blue prescription, etc. I see that time is running fast, and I have many other things I wanted to address related to men's health problems. It is generally so that men have more problems talking openly about things and being clear about symptoms than women are. We have a lot to learn from women in this area in terms of openness, whether it's about mental health, which I hope we can come up with later in the debate, other problems with the abdomen than those I've mentioned now, or in terms of heart and cardiovascular disease -- to be willing to understand what can be symptoms, and not just think that it's going over. So I hope we can get a debate where we go into these questions, and get action out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e311	It is a very important topic for the representative, Mr Bøhler, to address in his interview, and I think the representative has several good suggestions on how to improve things. While women are often good at visiting health services for their problems, men are often silent, as the representative of Bohemia said in his speech, about what bothers them. Unfortunately, too many men wait too long to see a doctor. It is a perfectly fundamental principle in healthcare that people should have equal access to health and care services, regardless of gender. We know that more diseases develop differently in women and men, but we lack knowledge of why they are, and what the differences really are. Therefore, it is very important to explore more about gender differences, how it affects health, diseases and health care. In this way, we can ensure that preventive health work and the provision of diagnosis, treatment, care and rehabilitation meet the needs of men and women in a good way. A report from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality for the current year shows that men and women have different consumption of hospital services. It does not necessarily mean that there is discrimination between genders in healthcare. Men and women will never have completely similar health problems, and therefore the provision of hospitals to different patient groups cannot be interpreted simply as a lack of equality. But it's a fact that women are responsible for more than half of the stays in somatic hospitals. One important reason for this is that women of childbearing potential are in contact with hospitals in pregnancy and when to give birth. Another reason is that women live longer than men, and it affects the consumption of health services. Cardiovascular diseases are the most common cause of men being hospitalised, and men are in the majority of those receiving dialysis for renal insufficiency. For other diagnostics, there are slight gender differences. However, there are differences between the health of men and women that make it a good reason to look into the health of men, as the representative of Bohemia calls for. For example, there is a greater social difference in human health in terms of morbidity, mortality and maritime health than for women. For example, mortality in the 45- to 65-year-olds is much higher among males than among females. Women have traditionally consumed more hospital services than men have. Nevertheless, men have higher rates of hospitalisation than women in all age groups, except in the 16- to 49-year-olds. In this age group, women have a higher rate of residence, even when we ignore stays related to pregnancy, childbirth and maternity. Men over 80 years of age receive clearly more treatments than women of the same age. The situation is reversed in the case of municipal care services - then it is women who receive most of the services from the public. It may appear that older men are more likely to be hospitalised, while women are largely assisted in the municipal care service. Therefore, both the health problems of old age and the provision of health services should be considered and seen in a gender perspective. In the mission paper of regional health enterprises, I emphasise that gender perspective should be well integrated. In the Ministry’s research strategy for 2006-2011, we also underline the need for more knowledge of gender differences in the field of health. This is reflected in the new plans for the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Norwegian Research Council. Norway is, as is well known, among the countries in the world that spend most of their resources on health. Nevertheless, everyone here is aware that we have challenges related to increased demand, increased expectations among users, demands for stronger patient rights, greater attention to the risk of disease, an increase in the number of older people, and is said to be progressing as quickly as it does. In order to ensure optimal use of health resources for the whole population, it is necessary to give priority to the provision of healthcare to those most in need. Current prioritisation practices are based on the principles of the recommendation of the Wage II Committee. In these recommendations, patient groups are divided into priority groups based on the severity of the condition, the expected benefits and costs of the measures. In addition, I would like to mention the National Council for Quality and Priorities, which was appointed last year. An important task for this Council is to find areas where there are unacceptable differences in the provision of services. Health legislation is becoming increasingly important as a tool to ensure that all in Norway have equivalent and accessible health services. Patients are granted strong and comprehensive rights under the Patient Rights Act. In particular, everyone has the right to assess the health status within 30 working days of receipt of the referral. As you know, they also have the right to have the right to necessary health care assessed. The Patient Rights Act does not normally distinguish between male and female illness or suffering. Those who have been granted a right to the necessary health care will, as a matter of fact, often go ahead of those who do not have such a right. The statistics we per. For the second tertiary, 2007 shows that rights spaces are waiting for a shorter period than other patients and that there has been a reduction compared to previous years. That means that we do the right priorities, and that we succeed in prioritizing patients with more serious diseases - both men and women. The waiting times in somatic health services have been quite stable since 2004 and are around 70 days. There are always some fluctuations here, but it essentially means that the patient should have been evaluated by a specialist within 70 days, that the necessary X-rays and laboratory tests have been carried out, and that the treatment has been started. However, as is known, there are wide variations between the different hospitals in waiting times as well, because the number of referrals and activity levels is different from hospital to hospital. For example, the waiting time for investigating prostate problems is between 4 and 34 weeks, and for treatment the waiting time is between 3 and 52 weeks - depending on the hospital and the type of treatment you are looking at. In many cases, waiting time may be significantly reduced by the patient exercising the right to free choice of hospitals and choosing a hospital with the shortest waiting time. I am now working on improving this system, so that people can pick the hospital that has the shortest waiting time as easily as possible. We also have, as we know, a system of patients’ assistants to help patients find their way into the healthcare system. So far, those projects have been very successful. Today we see that, fortunately, there is a clear distortion in hospitals towards receiving patients who need the most health care. It's a positive, but also a resource-intensive development. Twisting means that activities in hospitals increase moderately. There is a reduction in daily stays and an increase in daily stays and in outpatient consultations. At the same time, we see that there is a decline in the use of private hospitals. Number from SINTEF Collaboration shows that the waiting time e.g. for cancer patients, significantly shorter comparisons are made with other disciplines. With regard to the question from the representative, Mr Bøhler, to establish, inter alia: a screening program for prostate cancer and lung cancer, if I understand correctly, the Government of the National Cancer Strategy has announced that we will continuously assess whether to establish new screening programmes for cancers other than breast cancer. The national cancer action programmes shall be updated with recommendations on what is known as PSA tests, which is a blood test capable of detecting prostate cancer. Once the prostate cancer action programme is completed, it will also indicate how to deal with the problem of these PSA tests, which is this blood test. However, this is the case per year. Today, it is clear that there is no clear evidence that systematic screening for lung cancer reduces the mortality of this cancer. This recommendation will be reviewed by the Directorate for Social and Health during the work on the action programme on lung cancer. At present, health authorities do not recommend a general screening for prostate and lung cancer, and it is because there are no systematic findings showing that screening for prostate and lung cancer reduces mortality and because there is a high risk of both false positive findings and false negative findings. However, I am open that if new findings are to be found, which I believe we need to constantly assess, this position must also be reviewed. I also think there is a big difference between discussing a screening that would apply to everyone, and what the representative, Mr. Bøhler, is that one should think about risk groups and possibly some pilot projects in that context. Finally, I believe that much of this is about the attitudes of men towards their own health and disease, as the representative also pointed out. There is no doubt that men more than women tend to underreport disease and wait longer to go to a doctor. That is why this debate is important, and that is why this interpellation is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e353	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and positive response. It's true, as the Council of State concluded, that the groups I think about when I mention the possibility of screening for lung cancer are the vulnerable groups like COPD patients, older long-term smokers and the kind of groups that I think we should look at. Obviously, if you detect precursors to lung cancer early, you will have a much greater chance of succeeding in the interventions and treatment. In the case of prostate cancer, it's also like those I think about when it comes to PSA tests, which it's called, are certain vulnerable groups. I've asked a lot of professionals whether it's right or not to try out PSA tests on vulnerable groups, put it in the blood tests, and then I've got different assessments. The argument against this is that some people can be disturbed, because there will be more who have high PSA values than those who have prostate cancer or prostate enlargement. An argument against is also that you want to spend a lot of resources on starting at least the start of a diagnosis and investigation of a good number of people for whom you didn't need it. At the same time, more people will obviously be rescued who will be able to receive treatment before it becomes serious spread, and this is a large group. We're talking about 3,800 cases per. years, which either die or die with prostate cancer. Too little lives ten years later. So I think it's right, as the Council of State was about, to look at PSA tests in relation to targeted sections of the older male population. The costs of just conducting the test are small because there will only be a part added to routine blood pressure checks etc. in the case of permanent doctors, where appropriate occupational doctors. As far as the decision-makers are concerned, I think it is important in relation to human health to raise the use of fixed doctors and to introduce things like PSA tests, such as spirometrics in relation to respiratory diseases and COPD, and also in relation to getting more attention about mental health and symptoms, learning about symptoms of heart attacks, strokes, etc. That's how many people don't know these symptoms. Many people don't check their cholesterol or blood pressure for too many years. When men come up at a certain age, from 55 to 60 years old and up, they should make sure that they are within them, for example. every three years. It is too bad when the decision makers just send a letter at the beginning that they are there, and then you don't hear anything after that. So at least against vulnerable groups of this kind, the decision-makers should build up better practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e366	I want to comment on what the representative took up in his main post about the procedures of prostate cancer, and how it is handled in relation to, for example. breast cancer. We are now updating an action programme on prostate cancer, and it will help us get good practice practices across the country. Because it has to be said that there are clear procedures to deal with, which also applies to the whole country. The action programme will include recommendations on how to do this in the course of cancer, from suspicion of cancer to treatment and rehabilitation. So to the discussion about the effect of screening programs. If you compare with e.g. mammography, there's no doubt about it, at least based on the knowledge you have per day. Today, the efficacy of mammography is better documented than, for example: the effect of screening for the prostate. It is clear that we must always bear in mind that the effect is as well documented as possible, and that public funding does. I also feel that the representative is concerned about Bohemia. I also want to say a little more about men looking for doctors' offices to a lesser extent than women. I think it's important to talk loud about this, as it's now being added up to. The greatest difference between men and women is between the ages of 25 and 44. It is also that it may seem that life as a lone man presents special challenges in interpreting your own body and health status, as well as in looking up your decision-maker. Unfortunately, that means that some people wait too long to go to the doctor. This means, for example: in the case of cancer, that it has often spread when the disease is detected and that, therefore, more men than women die from cancers that even hit most women. I believe that the Cancer Association is making a great effort in this area, and is doing a good job of making men more consciously say hello and seek help in time. The experience of the Cancer Association in the follow-up to men with prostate cancer illustrates the attitudes of men in a good way. The response to this offer was very small as long as the men were invited to conversations, but there were many who became much more interested when ‘talks’ were replaced by ‘course’. Sometimes things are as simple as they're going to be. In the prevention work, we have long been aware that we need to take gender differences into account when developing measures. For example, I can. mention that several health centres now have measures specifically aimed at boys. Internet health centre and help phones for the Youth, Social Affairs and Sexuality Centre are also measures that reach boys to a greater extent than girls. We need to be creative in everything we do, both in terms of preventive health work and in terms of treatment provision itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e379	As the interpellant said, there are now significant differences in average life expectancy for women and men. It hasn't always been like this. I've read an article by a researcher at the Institute of Public Health, and it was exciting reading. Research has shown that women in the 1700s probably had lower life expectancy than men, probably because the causes of death were often associated with major epidemics of infectious diseases of which women died more often than men. In addition, childbirth was much more often the cause of female deaths, both directly and in the presence of infectious diseases. As late as the 1930s, there was almost equal mortality between women and men, while I've heard that further back, that is, before the 1700s, it was the same as today's women who lived the longest. The interpellant showed both differences in life expectancy between men and women and social differences, e.g. between men and women. between east and west in Oslo, and I thought it was exciting to hear Jan Bøhler's posts. As I may have also said before, I think it is both exciting and important to discuss the background for such differences to occur over time, and what we can do to lift up those that are today the weakest on such statistics. I also think it is good that we get awareness of the fact that in some areas women's health and men's health should be met on the basis of different approaches, to which the Council of State was closely involved. It has been discussed in the past that there is a lack of research in some areas related to female health. Now we're discussing that men have lower life expectancy, and I think it's good that both of these debates are raised and seen in conjunction with each other, not in contrast to each other. In particular, I would like to highlight the area of cancer, where there are some significant differences between the types of cancer that are most common among men and the types of cancer that are most common among women. Data from the Cancer Register show that the most common of all cancers among men is prostate cancer, with 3,631 new cases in 2005, or 28,6 pst. of all male cancers. The most common form of cancer among young men is testicular cancer, while the most common form of cancer among women is breast cancer, with 2780 new cases in 2005, or 24.1 pst. of all cancers among women. Thus, the most common type of cancer among men is not found in women, and the most common type of cancer among women is very few in the male population. So I want to say, even though it might be a little bit on the side of the interpellation itself, that it's fascinating to see which issues are being debated in public, for example. through the media, what things are not going to happen, how a debate is created, who has an interest in creating it, and what themes are not becoming major media issues despite being more important in substance than other issues that become big business. For example, there is often a large public debate about different medicines that can help cure or stagnate some cancers, and that is good. It is incredibly important that no opportunity stand up in the fight to make a human being healthy. At the same time, there seems to be very little debate about the potential, for example. for pulmonary and intestinal screening studies, on which the interpellant was involved, which combined for men and women had 5,700 new cancers in 2005, and in addition have a high mortality rate. Here, there may be a potential for detecting cancer at an earlier stage, and only to give one example of its importance, the survival of localised lung cancer in men is three times higher than in cancer cases that have developed longer. So I would also like to say a few words about mental health and openness. I think there are still major cultural differences between men and women -- and perhaps especially young boys and girls -- transparency about mental health issues. Let me give you one example in the youth health centre, a very good offer that is important to capture as much as possible within both halves of the population. When is the youth health station today as well as boys as girls? Are men seeking this offer as much as women, and does it capture those who have the potential to capture? I think it's important to look at what opportunities we have to change boy cultures where there's not so much talk about health, create more transparency about health-related issues in everyday life, and look at what tools we can use to stimulate more of those who could get help from such an offer, also make use of this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e396	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important and not least big case. When you take up the problem of prostate cancer, testicular cancer, urinary tract infection and kidney stones, smoking bones, bladder cancer, enlarged prostate, alcoholism, COPD and enlarged bladder gland, it's very ambitious, and I have to say maybe in an ambitious way. Immediately, it can be said that much more should be spent on cancer research and on research and prevention of COPD. In fact, the Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals such as this. The representative of Bohemia has been in favour of voting. But I understand the interpellant correctly, there is an increased focus on the different diseases and getting first and foremost a number of people to understand the importance of openness around the diseases, and that our health system should be able to capture these health problems at a much earlier time and through this stands for a prioritization of the diseases, which is the intention, and I fully support that intention. Data suggest that prostate cancer and other underlife diseases are increasing in society, and it will be a major health benefit to detect this at an early stage. It is the most common form of cancer on the human side, but it is also such that today's methods of diagnosis and treatment are unfortunately not good enough. In other words, we need increased investment in these areas both nationally and internationally. These are also the one-sided signals given by researchers in the scientific community, so that if this will want to listen to the research environment, we in this room are also the awarding party and can adopt more money for research. We need both greater transparency and more research. More research will lead to better results, which in turn will lead to greater transparency around the problem. Unfortunately, prostate cancer is also a personal ethical dilemma for those affected. He/she may end up becoming sterile and lose his/her ability to reproduce during treatment. It goes without saying that its younger one is, the harder it is to deal with a treatment where this can quickly be the end result. Meaningless, others might say, but surveys abroad just show that men here have a big problem choosing from two bottoms, and being potent is too many very, very important. It is also true that many more men than women have COLS today. Over 200,000 suffer from COPD. That today you have this as a human disease through formerly greater participation of men in a different and sometimes tougher work life than what is common today, and men who also smoked, I think also lead to correctness. Just so sorry that today's women are far too perpetuating this culture. I'm afraid that what has been partly male-dominated diseases, in the future, will include many more women, and perhaps especially related to COLS, through smoking, and related to alcohol, as we know that the drinking pattern today has changed. Here we have new health challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e409	The interpellant has chosen a very wide angle of incidence on its interpellance. It's an advantage from one point of view, because it opens up many interesting debates on health statistics, medical history, anthropology and philosophy. On the other hand, it may be a disadvantage because it makes it unnecessarily difficult to address the very precise problem of the interpellation, and it can also make it very difficult to operate what it is necessary to agree that there is a knowledge of the differences between typical human diseases and typical female diseases. Let me also predict the remark that there is always the temptation when you start to notice differences - it is average life expectancy or other things - that you end up in the kind of political coercion logic that the problem is not solved until everyone has more than average life expectancy. The most interesting thing about the problem of life expectancy, I don't think you can find by going back hundreds of years in time, as the representative Tegen did, but to be careful - let's say - for the last 50 years. It should be expected that as the sex roles approach each other, that is. that women generally have a professional career similar to that which has been common to men, some of the difference should also be equalised. As far as I've been able to read in the literature, that's not the case. One of the interesting questions is to find the explanation for that. Why doesn't the difference decrease as the social roles approach each other? It points out that at least it is wise to list different types of diseases, to distinguish between the diseases that are directly related to the biological differences between the female body and the human body that cannot be eliminated, and where, for my part, I believe that it is probably not desirable either, and the type of diseases that are linked to lifestyle and lifestyle differences, but have no necessary connection with the biological differences between men and women. This applies, for example: COLS of the diseases that the interpellant has listed, and this is probably about alcoholism. I think it is essential to keep track of this difference if it is to have any sense to choose the approach ‘human diseases’ and ‘female diseases’. Then there's a point of view that the interpellant did not strip, but which I think is quite essential. So far, professional health has been governed by quite one-sided gender roles. The profession of medicine has been a prominent profession of human beings, and very often specific women’s diseases are discussed from the point of view of neglect, because the doctors are essentially men. It's a development we're moving away from. In some decades to come, the practice of playing in our part of the world is also going to be a woman-dominated profession. And it's interesting to raise the question, will that in itself lead to differences? On the other hand, the nursing profession has been almost 100 pst. women's dominated occupation, and the difference is unfortunately slower. However, this is most relevant when discussing the ability of the health care system to deal with the problems of men and women, respectively. Finally, I think it is essential that the interpellant strove in its second post, that when we discuss this type of problem, we do not immediately run them into issues in the specialist health service, with generous screening procedures, etc., but that we take note that here it is quite obvious that the primary health service that sits with the key to solving the problems, and probably it is more to pick up by deliberately focusing on improving the primary health service, the fixed medical system. It's more to pick up there than by immediately penning into the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e427	It has been said very wisely both from the inter-pellant and the state councils and others who have participated, about both the prevention and control of disease in the population, not least in men. That makes you a little tempted -- at least I do -- to take on a slightly different role, that's like the devil's lawyer. Because it is quick that if you focus on some problem areas, most people will agree relatively quickly that more needs to be done in those areas. And then you could risk-- I'm not saying in any way that the interpellant does that-- losing sight of that a good part of what we're talking about, for example. in the Norwegian health system, both well-functioning and offering opportunities to do much more in many areas than could be done before. I think we should consider that. One example: I had a grandmother who lived until she was 103 years old and died in a nursing home in Alta in the spring of 2006. She did so in a situation where one had a discussion about Norwegian nursing homes as if they were--some used the words--the Gulag archipelago or the Nazirians during the war. I myself have participated in such a debate in which the kind of terms were used, which was a completely meaningless characteristic of most Norwegian hospitals. Where she died--I'll say old and full of days--she fully understood that life was over. She lived at home until she was 100 years old, and the health care service had done what the health care service could do for her. A doctor said to me once while I was a medical student - it might sound cynical to someone: Death should have a cause. It will be that, no matter how many measures the health care system takes, you will experience that the day you fall from, there will be a reason for it. There will be a reason that at some point it is no longer natural to fight. An example of this can be prostate cancer in men who reach the age of 80, when you're obviously starting to get a health that's spooky, and where it's not necessarily given that you can live for very many years. This is why it is important to target health care interventions based on the type of life-stage they are in, and whether it makes sense to invest a lot of resources. For example, to re-use my grandmother as an example, I would not find it reasonable to have put in considerable resources for her to live until she was 104 years old, and she would not have appreciated that either. That makes me agree a little bit with the pay approach when we discuss those questions. It is important to sort in terms of where is it best to put a lot of resources, simply because people need those resources? And where is it reasonable to dampen the expectations of the population, so that you don't create expectations it's not reasonable to fulfill? It beats me when I think about prostate cancer. The average number of patients who have worked with Norwegian fast doctors is 1,200, which may be slightly lower today, and half of these patients will be male, at least on average, based on the statistics. Maybe another half of the 600 are men we're talking about here, who need special follow-up measures. This means that if you have such an average on your lists, during a four-week period of a full year of work, a Norwegian permanent resident would be able to check the proportion of the population and, in this case, if needed, the prostate specific antigen, which has been mentioned, and to identify whether there is an increased risk of cancer. One statistic shows that 80 pst. cases of cancer in the colon are so far out in the colon that you can reach it with a finger. So that means that if a certain person uses his finger and examines the intestine, you'll be able to capture the 80 pst. of the cancers of both women and men. What we often see in this type of debate is that we immediately get a focus on the highly specialised specialist service, like talking about magnetic tomography, computer tomography and other very cost-intensive research, while talking little about even a simple study using a finger, by doing one week's work on an annual basis, could possibly reveal 80 pst. of the cancer cases. That's why it's not certain that there's so much more resources to do. But it may well be useful to develop a type of screening program that is just about what one should collectively do in Norwegian general practice to capture some of this, without costing a penny more, but where the results report very quickly. Therefore, it is commendable that the interpellant addresses this issue. But the answer isn't given that it means to add a lot more resources to this sector. Maybe it's just the system strategy that's missing per. date.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e438	The interpellant has promoted an exciting and important interpellant. It is true that in recent years there has been an increasing attention to women's health, and -- I want to add -- rightly. The Bondevik II government submitted St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003 - Public Health Communication. The notification included, inter alia: a women’s health strategy, which was also presented as a report in January 2003. This strategy was a follow-up to the proposals in NOU 1999:13, entitled Women’s Health in Norway. The investigation revealed a high level of lack of knowledge and lack of gender mainstreaming in health policies and practices. The study included proposals for actions aimed at creating structures, practices and tools to ensure gender mainstreaming in research and other knowledge acquisition, policy-making, prevention and also in healthcare and welfare systems. We know that the Research Council has long encouraged gender and gender differences in health and disease to be addressed and discussed in all relevant projects. The NEM, the National Research Ethics Committee for Medicine and Health, has developed guidelines for gender inclusion as a variable in all human-related medical research so that gender-specific analyses are possible. The use of gender-sensitive variables can provide new knowledge that can both lead to more targeted prevention, treatment and health services. This will have meaning and, of course, applies to both women and men. Women’s health strategies presented by the Bondevik II government pointed out that different measures could have a different impact on women and men, and that therefore different instruments must be used for women and men, as appropriate. This is a recognition that gender perspective is a necessary focus, even when designing health policy. And again--of course, as important for men as for women. Some diseases are gender-specific, many of which have been diagnosed. Breast cancer is a good example in women, and prostate cancer in men. We've had a lot of focus on breast cancer, and a lot of positive has happened in recent years, both in terms of diagnosis, surgery and medical treatment. Prostate cancer has not had an equivalent focus, such as: PROFO has pointed out. They indicate that the waiting time for surgery is increasing, and that many have been diagnosed too late. This is too many dramatic when we know the extent of the disease that PROFO says has a mortality of approximately. 30 pst. It is true, as the interpellant and also the Council of State say, that men visit health care to a lesser extent than women. However, human health is now on the agenda in the Nordic region, to a greater extent than in the past, which is positive. The first Nordic Conference on Human Health took place in Copenhagen in 2004. The second conference on human health took place in Oslo in 2006. This conference focused on a number of issues related to human health and disease, and the red thread was human health in a gender perspective. The importance of health care recognising that there are differences in symptoms and responses to disease in men and women was strongly highlighted at this conference. One of the speakers, White, focused on younger men, under the age of 45, an age in which men have significantly higher death rates than women, who were also in the Council of State. The causes are many, but also when you take away the gender-specific diseases, such as: breast cancer, prostate cancer and others, men are worse off. A common explanation, according to this speaker, is what several here have pointed out: that men seek doctors less than women, and often too late. These figures suggest that information should be directed to younger men, so that they seek medical attention in the past and that disease is detected in time. This should be possible to create a good strategy for, in my opinion. The third Nordic Conference on Human Health will be held this year, in Stockholm, 10 and 11 April. This shows that scientific and research environments in the Nordic region are also concerned with the health of men, and it has become an important and recurring topic. Reform - Resource Centre for Men is involved and is among others. Secretariat of this Conference. Today's Interpellant initiative contributes to our political future being given a stronger focus, I believe, on human health. In my opinion, this shows that gender perspective is necessary even when we discuss and develop our health policy. I am pleased that the Council of State in its response to the interpellant pointed out the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e460	It continues to focus on ‘high status’ diseases, cardiovascular diseases and certain types of cancer. I think that interpellant Jan Bøhler is quite right in that men go to the doctor to a lesser extent--something more here has been about--and that part of the diseases he mentioned in his post, are taboo and difficult for men to talk about. Women have more contact with the health care system - in connection with pregnancy and childbirth and by traditionally following children. This is probably also an explanation that women more than men are addressing the health care system, which was also addressed by the Council of State. Then there are other factors that are not so easily documented and explained, namely that men are overrepresented in the statistics on violence and crime statistics, that men have problems with drugs and with living, and that some men with poor mental health have violent behaviour. In Norway, homeless people are mostly men. Men are overrepresented in the group of young people who do not fit into working life because of social problems and lack of formal skills. These are questions such as: The men's panel should discuss. Why is that so? They often have poor mental health after a break in their lives, and some are struggling with alcohol problems, which was also the subject of interpellant. The left believes that, to the extent that increased resources are to be used for human health, this must take the form of an increased focus on mental problems and on offers that address these issues. Minority-speaking men face the same challenges as ethnic Norwegian men in talking about pediatric diseases. More doctors have experience in men with a country of origin other than Norway going to a doctor even less to check for prostate cancer and other pelvic diseases. I would like to stress that as politicians, we are responsible for the use of available health resources to create an equivalent offer, with priority on a medical basis. Social inequality in the health of men and women requires more research, in order to find out to what extent social conditions and biological differences are crucial for the life expectancy differences we see in men and women. Finally, I would like to commend the interpellant for having raised this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e477	It was fine that the previous speaker challenged the Mannspanel to take this debate. That's what the Mannspanel will do. I want to start my post by thanking Jan Bøhler for raising this very important interpellation. My post will focus on a topic that has not yet been very difficult in this debate, but which affects to the greatest extent both the life age, quality of life and health statistics, namely the mental health of men. During the preparations for this debate, I have noticed that there is too little writing about human health. I think there's too little writing about men's problems and gender inequalities, especially in mental health. In addition, I feel that there is too little talk. Human health is a taboo topic, especially in mental health. Men are too little good to talk about this. At the Council of Mental Health we can read that one in four will have some kind of anxiety during life, and many will have some kind of mental health problem during life. So it's pretty normal for this to happen. That's why it has to be common to talk about it. Clearly, men and women react differently to the problems they experience through life. We hear that women more than men are asking for help, and that men may wait the longest before going to the doctor, perhaps especially in the case of mental health. Fear, depression and life crises can be common to women and men, but the consequences of this seem to be very different. We look at the most dramatic consequences of suicide statistics, but we also see effects in the area of the problem of violence, drugs and crime. I believe that society sees these problems too much as pure behavioral problems, and too little of them as symptoms of how men deal with their plagues. Men are becoming more pervasive. While men more often let their frustration go beyond the environment and society, the women may think, "What's wrong with me?" In recent times, criminal services have become more attractive to see that clients often have a lot of trouble in their luggage that can explain the pattern of action. A boy and a girl can experience the same crisis, a crisis in which the boy reacts to becoming an obsessive youth with behavioral problems, and ends up as a violent and socially misguided individual, while the girl may become more introverted and invisible, suffers physical symptoms and may end up with anxiety or depression. My message in and my purpose of this post is that it is time for the health service to see health problems more closely. I think that gender socialization is the cause of many of these inequalities. There are very old-fashioned gender roles in youth environments today, despite the fact that we have a quite equal society. There is still a very strong macho culture among the boys and a too strong ‘babe’ ideal among the girls. So what can be done? The inter-pellant and the state councils have said very well about this. I think it's time we took men's health seriously, both on the part of society and on the part of every man taking a much greater responsibility. Men must take their own responsibility - recognize, literally - and men must take responsibility for each other's health. On the part of society, it is appropriate to consider whether a NOW should also be created on human health. We need more mapping, and we need more transparency on this topic. In addition, we should have a review of how health services meet men. Men are under-consumers of healthcare. Therefore, consideration should be given to increasing the number of meeting points between each man and the health care system, where studies are carried out, and where men are trained to know their bodies and their signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e503	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate and have just contributed to the wholeness that should lie in it, with new points relating to the relationship between men and men with drug problems - in particular alcoholism - to mental health, to life crimes, to violence, etc. I particularly appreciated the addition to Laila Davøy. She was just told what I was trying to say in my speech, that we have a lack of gender mainstreaming in the overall health policy for men, in terms of prevention, in terms of treatment, in terms of the public health perspective - the whole approach - and that the gender perspective must be as much in terms of men as in terms of women, and that we have discussed the gender perspective for men much less than in terms of women. I also appreciated Borghild Tenden's contributions, which have just deepened this in relation to mental health problems and especially in relation to minority-speaking men, who may have even greater problems than Norwegian men. I also think that Stokkan-Grande deepened this part - with regard to mental health, with regard to men's behavioural problems from a health perspective. The idea of Stokkan-Grande about a NOU, an investigation, about the human health and gender perspective of our entire health system and on different types of diseases, whether they are lifestyle diseases or biological diseases, on which wages were involved, was very good. In the case of a couple of the other speeches that the approach is too broad, and you want to ask the whole thing, I have to say that I'm a little bit critical of these objections, because it's so that when we raise this human health debate and we want to talk specifically about it, the objections come. I don't think there were any posts that were held in the same street when we had female health interviews. We even decided to create - which I fully agree with - a national centre of expertise in relation to women's health. I wish that more people had had the angle of incidence that, among other things, The representatives Davøy, Tenden, Stokkan-Grande and Tegen had, in that we have a lack of focus on this. We will need this kind of focus - from prevention work in schools, from boys and men to the permanent medical system and specialist health services. There's no part of this that can be exempted, but it's relative to this puddle-position -- we men tolerate a noise, we ignore the symptoms, we wait until it gets really serious -- we have to try to cut through and get society with us at all levels. Then we have to use our entire treatment system to get this up and up. We have good results in some areas - testicular cancer is mentioned in the debate. The number of testicular cancers has tripled, but survival predictions have become much better [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e519	The president reminds us that when the red lamp goes out, the time for speaking is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e522	First of all, I think it is very good that this issue has been put on the agenda, and I think there have been very many good speeches and good suggestions in the debate that at least I want to take on board. I fully agree with the speakers who have said that in addition to, seasily, the specialist health service is the primary health service and the fixed doctors are absolutely central. That's where most people are, and that's where most people should also be followed up. Then I agree with those who say that women's and men's health should also meet differently in some contexts, and I'll come back to it a little bit. It seems that there is quite a broad consensus that there is a need for more information, more transparency - in particular perhaps mental health - in this respect, and I agree with both the representative Stokkan-Grande and the representative Tegen when it comes to putting this on the agenda. There I think there's a lot to do in relation to boys and in relation to men. I also believe, as many people have been involved in this debate, that we need to prevent even more, for example. in the case of COLS, which has become a major public disease. We know that now it's about -- if I remember correctly -- a couple of hundred thousand people, and in addition, there's reason to believe that there are many who have it, but who don't know it. So it's not revealed. That's why it's usually very important to have it revealed, but it's even more important to prevent people from getting sick. Therefore, the discussion about smoking, which many believe, is also an example of its importance in practice. So it's very important in everything we do, that we get as much practice as possible across the country from all primary doctors, from all hospitals, for example. for the detection of prostate cancer. And as I said, I'm taking with me the proposal from the representative of Bohemia to try, and I'm going to ask the Social and Health Directorate to look at it. I just want to mention some challenges that we have to think very carefully, because it's a fact that a lot of men have signs of prostate cancer, without them ever going to develop it. So the famous PSA test, this blood sample, can detect prostate cancer that will never be a problem for the patient. In other words, patients can undergo a rather demanding treatment with quite serious side effects, too, without necessarily needing that type of treatment. Therefore, it is not necessarily the case that early detection of prostate cancer is the best thing in absolutely all cases. It's also a relationship that we have to keep going in this important discussion. There is a clear trend in healthcare that women and men are often treated differently. It is probably not only because there are different needs, but also because some health professionals lack knowledge of how species are different in women and in men. I believe that we need to pay more attention to this in the future, so that we can ensure equivalent health care for everyone, whether they be women or men.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e539	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e552	The quality of Norwegian training has been renewed in the searchlight after the last PISA report has given us a wake-up call. Not only is the professional level of Norwegian students lower than the OECD average, but there is a drop in professional level compared to the previous measurement. There are, of course, complex reasons, and there are difficult challenges to solve both inside and outside this assembly, in order to reverse this negative trend. The Progress Party has put forward a number of important proposals to help improve the quality of training. Some have been treated, and rejected by the Government, others are being discussed in our committee. Other opposition parties have also made important proposals for improvement. It will be a challenge to bring together all the good forces in a fight to improve the quality of school, rather than a fight for rhetorical points in new years and on school visits. It takes far more than talking to improve the quality of Norwegian school. Talk, however, is a positive tool for focusing on concrete issues, and interpellations in many ways have the intention to start talking in the Biggest on important policy issues. This interpellation is meant as a contribution to awakening interest in -- and talking about -- how our school system can respond to some of the decisions taken in the Stortinget. So the interpellation is not about the good intentions, but about translating good intentions into practice. The government has made its own list of how it has worked to improve school effort. As usual, the 21 billion dollars of the municipal sector will solve most of the challenges - ranging from 20,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, better public health, increased road maintenance, cultural schools, cultural houses, leisure clubs and kindergartens to more church activity and a much better school. The municipalities and the counties have received NOK 21 billion more during this government, but the perspective is basically quite meaningless and content-related almost absurd. The reality is that the cost growth of municipalities and counties under this government is higher than that of income growth, taking into account new demands, inflation and demographic changes. There is a lack of money to provide room for activity growth beyond cost growth. When economic space is reduced, it is natural that individual school owners become more creative - not in the sense that they are increasing educational creativity in order to increase learning outcomes, but they are becoming more economically creative in order to find new opportunities for savings. It is not negative in itself to focus on savings, because there is a significant room for efficiency improvement also in the school sector. The challenge is that this creativity often ends up with real cut in the offer of students. That is, of course, the easiest way to save money. When one so gets alerts from the media, students and parents that schools exercise their creativity in this way, there's no reason to be very surprised. More surprising is the fact that until winter the government has been relatively passive spectators for this to happen. I'm not fooled by claims that this is a completely new issue. For a number of years, students have been known to lose their teaching time in many ways. Noise and noise in the classroom is one factor. The Progress Party now has 16 specific points to address in order to improve that situation. Another time thief is incarcerated hours and school activities that are not related to subjects and education. Now it's also revealed that time theft is organized by school and school owners to save money. There are quite systematic and quite consciously many places - and this happens while SV has been in the Ministry of Knowledge. NTB and Aftenposten suggested in November 2007 that the students were cheated for between five and ten professional hours in all subjects. This, of course, means that the school is making money to reduce the teaching time for the students, and this also means that the students, of course, are missing out on important teaching time. Some might claim that five to ten professional hours are nothing to make a big deal of in Stortinget. In view of the recent national and international surveys on professional levels, it is obvious that Norwegian students need the education they require. In addition, these are symptoms of a school sector that do not take students’ rights sufficiently seriously. The Official Journal of Drammen on 21 November 2007 read about the County Council's draft budget. The Training Association in Buskerud reported in the paper that the proposal by the County Council would weaken the training offer. The Chief of Trust, Helle Christin Nyhuus, says to Drammen's Official Journal that the number of hours is lower than the norm to be used in the curriculum of the Directorate of Education. ‘For example, the Directorate says that there will be 84 teaching hours in the social field and 113 hours in Norway in the first class in the general field. If the councillor’s proposal goes through, the students in Buskerud will only receive 78 hours in social education and 105 hours in Norwegian.’ In Fredriksstad Blad, November 22, 2007, one read that the students at Frederik II high school could lose 260 school hours. Stavanger Aftenblad, December 8, 2007, says that students in Rogaland can lose 240 hours of education. The Minister of Knowledge has told the students to complain if they experience a cut in the hour. It's all right. However, in this way, the Council of State shifts responsibility from official control authorities to individual students, and it is the individual student who receives the reporting obligation instead of the Council of State assuming that it is the public control bodies that are to reveal this. He has also stated that he will contribute to the detection of a violation of students’ rights. It is good that the Council of State has done something after the Interpellation of the Advance Party was submitted on 22 November last year. It shows the importance and necessity of an opposition pressuring to increase the Ministry of Knowledge’s focus on training. But it is worth noting, however, that there had to be a massive pressure from the Federation of Education, the opposition and the media to give it the proper attention. There are probably quite a number of ways that you can count on to circumvent the established standards for the teaching time of your students. Perhaps part of the problem is that the central leaders of students’ right to education are not good enough. However, it is unacceptable for school owners to continue to find new and creative methods of calculation, which actually involve education for students. These observations come at the same time that the government says it has invested heavily in Norwegian school, and that it will invest even more strongly. Yesterday we saw that the daily newspaper had a look at the government's school effort that has so far led to the teacher's density falling into initial training, and that since the government change in 2005, there have been 0.25 more students per year. Teacher - be contrary to the Government's claims and promises. Towards the end, I would also like to say that I have noticed that earlier in this room during various debates we have discussed allegations relating to irregularities from some private schools. Then the government parties and the state council have been very rough. Some of us have said that it may be that even in public owned schools things happen that aren't quite all right, but then we've been almost said sagging down by the council and his soldiers in the hall, because it was just hesitate. So now we're in the middle of a situation where the county, which owns the most, most of the high schools in this country, deliberately reduces the offer to students to save money. Then I expect the Council of State to take responsibility for it this time - not by pushing responsibility down on the county councils, but by saying what national action he will take to solve the challenges of the public school. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to explain what he has done to ensure that the students' right to training has been fulfilled before the headlines in the press, and in what way he will ensure for the future that the savings imposed do not lead to the students getting less training and getting used for important teaching time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e586	The professional and hourly distribution of the initial training of the elephants is regulated by the Regulation of the Training Act. The regulations will set a minimum of one hour for each class of pupils. According to the law, students are entitled to training in accordance with it. Skule is one of the Government's bet areas. has the Government as its goal to add more teachers to the school. It is therefore worrying that the department has received a signal of violation of pupils’ rights in some municipalities, because the students do not get the number of hours they are entitled to. We follow the evolution through regular reporting by the municipalities and county councils. Preliminary GSI figures, figures from the primary education information system, for the school year 2007-2008, show that the historical boost in the local economy has not given rise to an increase in resource use in the basic school; the average group size has remained stable over the past few years, and so the learning density has not been increased as we expected. In further training, the number of elephants has increased significantly, while the learning density has remained stable in the last few years. Current school year statistics are not yet conducted for further training. The students are among those who know best the conditions of each school. It is therefore also important that the pupils and their parents take up the matter with the school’s guidance or with the school owner if they suspect that the legislation is being broken. A local involvement is central to ensuring a good school. I can also mention that I know quite specifically one of the things that have been mentioned in the media. This was caused by a message from a person in a school to a department and local authorities that led to the county being involved. on the initiative of the Council of State and the Ministry. This does not mean, however, that we can leave responsibility to anyone other than those responsible, i.e. national and local authorities. The principal task of the county council in the field of education is to oversee the school owner, i.e. the municipalities and county councils, in order to ensure that the basic training is conducted in accordance with the training laws and private schools. In 2008, supervision was strengthened by 7.5 million. to increase the quality and scope of supervision to be carried out. It's not acceptable if students don't get the hours they need. So I'm busy getting as good a picture of the situation as possible, while at the same time securing the dishes that students have. The Directorate of Education has therefore, following significant planning, entrusted the counties with the task of carrying out written supervision of the compliance of county municipalities with the minimum number of hours for the training of elephants in secondary schools. The county councils shall, through supervision, demonstrate that the students are given the right to set the number of hours for which they are entitled. The results of supervision will be reported to the Education Directorate before the end of May 2008. To the extent that there is a breach of the legislation, county councils will require county councils to rectify the situation. Through a good municipal economy, the government has provided good training for municipalities and municipalities. The Ministry follows the developments through regular reporting by municipalities and county councils. In addition, targeted and effective state supervision will help students to receive the training they require. In other words, we must continue with the policies we have, strengthening the economy of those responsible for running schools, municipalities and county municipalities. We need to critically assess the Norwegian school resource base in the light of what we have now seen of international studies, and make sure that it is good. At the same time, regardless of the permissions, there is a need to check that the elephants get the rights they have in different areas. Now we are particularly concerned about the topic that the interpellant addresses, namely to check that they get the professional and hourly number that they are entitled to. Therefore, there is a private oversight that will report back to the Education Directorate in May 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e605	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and confirmation that not much had happened before 22 November, when this interpellation was submitted. I would also like to thank you for the confirmation of the claims made by the Progress Party from this pulpit many times, namely that the money that the Government boasts is not going to benefit the school. This is a serious problem. The focus on teaching time is important - not least the Government strongly focuses on the importance of extending the class hour in primary school. The party agrees that teaching time is important and that it makes sense with several classes in primary school. The most important thing, however, is the content of teaching time. It becomes more important and important to get away from the fact that the focus on games is as important as the focus on learning. In school, knowledge is primarily to be acquired. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State so clearly states that it is not acceptable for schools and school owners to try to avoid the obligations they have towards the students. Nevertheless, it is not possible to get away from the fact that the schools get into an impossible situation when they are imposed cut off by the school owner, not only because the framework of the school owner is too small, but perhaps also because the school owner prioritizes completely different things in front of the school. In the county, there is an increasing interest in taking on new tasks. The financial framework does not increase. And the county council, which essentially owns the high schools, spends the money in different directions than in school. I understand that state politicians will have more to do. Even though the Progress Party wants to bring down the county councils, we understand that those who sit in the county councils want to have more to do. This goes directly beyond schools and their funding. Today, the school is the victim of random state policy priorities. This means that the provision of training for students in one country can be much better than the provision of training for students in the neighbouring state, simply because there are different priorities for training and education. The Progress Party has proposed several times, and will certainly do so again, that unit price financing should also be introduced in high school, so that the money accompanies the students directly to the school. This avoids a situation where there is a high degree of inequality between states in education and training provision. Every time the Council of State and his party colleagues are challenged as to how to ensure that the money gets where they are going, there are some vicissitudes and comments about local democracy and the importance of maintaining the right of self-determination for school owners, etc. But now we've had two and a half years with this government, and it turns out it's not able to direct the resources towards the school. Anniken Huitfeldt has said to the media that then you have to consider other ways of financing this. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State directly: will the Council of State now consider other ways of financing training, so as to ensure the right of students to training, irrespective of the local policy priorities for which they are victims?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e618	I think there's a need to go through this a little bit more thoroughly now, to see what's the difference. Firstly, the difference between the policy of the government we have today and the policy of the previous government, as supported by the representative Anundsen, is that there is now a strong commitment to the community economy - from a starvation to a bet. During the previous ageing period, the learning density was poorer - the arrow pointed downwards. Now we've had a stable development. Yes, significant amounts are used, and they are increased around Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. There is a focus on quality and on teachers in the school. Large sums of money are spent locally on continuing education, which is precisely directed towards the competence of teachers in the school, and of course significant sums are spent evenly in Norwegian municipalities and counties on building schools and upgrading schools. A wide range of tasks related to municipalities and county councils are prioritised, and one spends more money locally. In addition, this government has made a significant direct investment in the school in other ways. From 2008 we increase the hour by five clock hours on the first steps of the base ball, while the Progress Party's answer to that is to cut one school year, after the party's program. We also use considerable resources nationally, approximately. Three hundred and seventy-five million. kr, for a major continuing training lift, just to ensure even greater competence among teachers in the school. Of course, it's not true that we haven't done much to follow up the many different rights that students have. We work with that every day in the Ministry of Knowledge, and so do the statesmen and others who have that task. Among other things, there are even-covered relationships that are followed up by the statesmen, conditions that are just linked to the students being given the professional and hourly distribution they are entitled to. But in addition to the systematic work of following it, going through complaints that come up, we've decided that there should be a special oversight of it, because it's so serious that we have to check it out. Finally, to answer the question, although we have spent a lot of time in school, and a lot of local use, we also need to critically assess the educational resource base in the future, not least in the light of the quality challenge we have received. We will continue to evaluate how to secure future growth in the economy of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e629	Like the interpellant, I also read the notice in particular. The evening post at the end of November last year. The survey focused on Frederik II's secondary school in Fredrikstad, where in three years the students together lost 260 hours. Unlike the inter-pellant, I have also read the response letter from Østfold County Council, which came after this notice. I had expected more from the Vestfold Progress Party’s biggest representative than he thought everything that was printed in the paper was the full and complete truth. The county rejects the fact that they have cut their teaching time in order to save money. They state that no cuts or changes have been made during the time to be used for teaching. The teaching of the students is done according to agreed curricula - the curriculum of the individual subjects and the general curriculum. The only thing that has changed in Eastfold County is that the employer and the school owner have control over the time that professionals have not set aside for teaching in their class but go to other activities. The feedback from schools in Eastfold provides no evidence that this change goes beyond the students - rather the opposite, for this time to be used to increase learning outcomes for the students: the teacher should be more prepared for the hour. As early as 2002, the contract work opened up for a redeployment of this time - from a more teacher-driven prioritisation of the time to stronger management by the employer. The County Council further writes in its letter of reply that, in connection with the Knowledge promise, the teacher’s empowerment required a different use of resources than in the past. I agree with the interpellant that it is serious if students in high school do not receive the education they are entitled to. Not only does it go beyond the goal achievement of the curriculum, but it goes beyond the knowledge institution, the learning environment and attitudes towards the school. Students are entitled to training in accordance with the requirements of the Training Act and, in the event of a breach, it should be suspended. Every state politician should be conscious of his responsibility as a school owner-- which I also think they are. I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is taking seriously the violations of the students' rights that the interpellant has outlined today and that may occur. It is important to ensure that initial training is conducted in accordance with the laws and regulations we have, such as the Education Act and the Private School Act. That is why I am pleased that the County Council's supervision of initial training is being strengthened in the current year. Furthermore, I am very pleased that the county council has been given the task of reporting in writing in order to be able to order the correction of the conditions of the county councils that do not meet the required minimum hours of instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e648	I get a little worried when I hear the reality of the red-greens. What they say about the local economy is refuted in the government's own documents, and is rejected several times. Developments outside are worrying, and this debate is about dealing with and doing something about the demands that have been made. I have soon followed three children through high school. After all, I've been wondering what they're doing, and how many days that disappear into things that aren't directly linked to the primary task of the school as a learning venue. The evening post actually went straight to that issue in the spring of 2007. They asked nine students at nine different high schools to log the hours. Result: On average, 30 pst was converted. hours. A real high school teacher at Bamble had been conducting his own statistics for years. It documented that his students were getting fewer and fewer hours in the classroom. In 2006, every four hours turned to other things. This is alarming, and that was the background for Right Document No. Eight proposals on the loss of teaching time that we submitted early last autumn and which are being discussed in the Committee. But I also have to admit, unfortunately, that as a father I did not get involved in the problem. I decided that the curriculum and the requirements are there, and so the students get the hours they want. The starting point in school is that the state regulates the minimum number of teaching hours that students should have, as the Council of State said. It has been written in a circular form, and it connects with the issue of a diploma. There may be several hours offered, but minimum is set. I don't think I'm alone in trusting that this is being followed up, but there's no openness about it. No statistics are provided that easily document to students and supervisors if they receive the hours provided. School needs some days of activity and alternative days, such as sports days, and days of theatre trips or excursions. These may be days more or less systematically linked to curriculum objectives for one or more subjects. Of course, learning can take place in many arenas, but there are some limits here. Most of us think that the limit is set at the minimum set by the curricula. It stops the school owner's degree of freedom. Those hours are needed to produce results in school. The school egg is the first one that should be conscious of this. In a letter to the Ministry of Knowledge dated 27 November last year, Norsk Lektorlag has discussed the relationship between the general curriculum and the curricula for the subjects of higher education in the Knowledgelift. They refer to an example from Eastfold, where a school plans a small amount of hours compared to the minimum of 262 hours over a three-year period. It's equal to the number of hours in two subjects. So this is going to be less hours. It rarely goes as well as planned! The evening post reference suggested that, but we can hardly say that it is documented with such a small sample. The public school can't stand the loss of credibility here. The follow-up must be as close as if it were going to be private, something the representative Anundsen had to say. In his letter, Norwegian Lektorlag asked for some answers from the Council of State. They have so far received no response, and I would therefore ask the Council of State to say something about this in this debate. Does the Council of State accept that it is necessary to pick up hours in the various disciplines in order to bring them together in activities included in the general curriculum? And if he does, how many hours are accepted for the move? Furthermore, would it be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on whether the school owner can plan to use ‘others’ who do not have competence in a subject to teach in this subject? A statement from the head of state education in Buskerud is: «The fact that non-professionals are responsible for the training is not the same as excluding students from teaching time. They are only trained in other arenas!" Is this what he supports? It is the word ‘planning’ that is central to this. The school must be able to improvise, but it seems that there is a growing acceptance that the school owner can plan an offer below the minimum objective imposed on them by the Knowledge Lift and related circulars. Then you're on your way into troubled waters. The school board in Norway now has requirements, quality and learning in focus. Norwegian school cannot continue the glide flight from quality. In high school the number of hours must be increased, in high school there must be no doubt that you should have the hours planned!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e674	It is an important theme that the representative Anders Anundsen is travelling today in an inter-pelling debate. We're not going to accept that high school cuts in the teacher's teaching time to save money. It's important that all students get the hours they need. It's not necessarily that you create something new by looking back, but it's important to know your story in order to see what the future is like, and not least where we're going today. When this red-green government took over the government power, it stood around the Commune-Norway and in the counties of Norway teachers on resignation. This government reversed this trend. By increasing the municipal budgets and the county budgets, the municipalities and the counties did not need to cut the school budgets, as they intended to do. SV is concerned about the signals coming through the media, that a number of schools have cut their education time. That is why I am very pleased that we have a trading council that takes seriously the issue that the representative of Anders Anundsen has addressed in an interview. Governments have given clear signals and instructions to state officials, and budgets have also been increased for their own supervision, so that there is no doubt that students will receive the hours they are entitled to. It is also important that students, teachers, and parents follow closely and see if you get the hours you are entitled to. It is only through reporting and good cooperation with parents, students and teachers that we can follow if the counties and municipalities carry out the hours required by the students. SV is concerned that we need to strengthen the school. We want to get more teachers in. SV's first priority is to strengthen the teacher's position in the classroom, build up under the good teachers we have around our country, and give them the opportunity to provide good training and education for our students. It has therefore been very important for the Swedish authorities to strengthen the municipalities through the budgets provided by this government. We see that to a very small extent the municipalities have given priority to teachers and teachers' density. We also see now that when many municipalities cut their budgets, school and teachers take too much of a burden - there will be too much cut in this area. Therefore, it will be important for SV in the future to look at measures that will ensure that there will be more teachers both in municipal schools and in county schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e687	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and serious issue. Teacher shortages in high school are now so serious that the county officials have launched an investigation into this. They shall determine whether the county councils have a sound system which can meet the minimum hours of training required by the pupils in accordance with the provisions of the curriculum. They shall ensure that school work plans are designed to facilitate training on completion of examinations and that solutions are planned for other events such as sick leave, etc. One would think that such plans were a matter of course. I don't think the county government deliberately wants to give students a poor education offer. I believe that every county council and every state policy wants the students in higher education to receive the levels of education they require. On the other hand, I am more uncertain as to whether the Government has understood the serious economic situation of many municipalities and municipalities. It seems that the government is trapped in its own rhetoric, that now the economy of the municipalities and the counties is so strong that everything can be prioritised. But that's not the reality. Teacher shortages in school are often precarious and will increase in the years to come. This is already noticed by the fact that it is difficult to get enough temporary workers when the teacher is not present. The Education Association is clear that immediate action needs to be taken, and in particular in secondary school. For the Christian People's Party, it is incomprehensible that increasing hours in childhood is more important than getting more teachers. 276 million. kr is used smoothly this year to give students more hours, but you do not allow funds to give the students lessons. The Christian People's Party would prioritize differently. Instead, we proposed using 220 million. NOK at employing 440 more teachers -- for the simple reason that when we say that teachers are the school's most important resource, we actually believe that there is a need for more of them. Recruitment of several teachers is essential for getting a better school. Even last year, the government parties had the opportunity, together with the opposition, to decide to draw up a national recruitment plan. Unfortunately, the government parties chose to waive this possibility and the opposition parties remained alone. In the debate over the last few weeks, it has seemed that the government has come up with better ideas, but we still see that there is a long way between the big words and the concrete action. In order to carry out a quality promise at school, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a crucial key: the teacher. Without more and more skilled teachers, we can't create a school of knowledge and well-being. Increased teacher recruitment is for Christian People's Party, among others. to make the teaching profession attractive. I believe that today's teachers can be the best recruiters if they themselves thrive, have status, good working conditions and a salary that is proportionate to responsibilities and tasks. Increased teacher recruitment is also about a good senior policy, about taking care of the good teachers we already have. In Rogaland, almost half of the teachers in high school are over 50 years old. In West Agder, the situation is still serious. And then we know that a lot of them will drop the bar in the next ten years. I believe it is essential that we improve working conditions so that those who want to do so have an opportunity to work as far as possible. The membership panel of the Federation shows that as many as three out of four teachers really want to work after 60 years of age. Why don't you set things right? These would be a huge resource for the school if we put in place the necessary measures for them to work longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e713	I also want to support around those who say that there is an important debate Anundsen is bringing up today. Let it be clear: the training law is to be followed, and students are initially entitled to the hour laid down by the curricula within a school year of 190 days. It is not difficult to join the Council of State's concerns that students are not receiving the training they require. Now he also came up with tools that are good in that context. I don't need to defend, but maybe explain why a few hours can become a teacherless person. I have obtained information from my home state, Uppland. There was about the same question that today's interpellant asked, taken up in the kitchen just before Christmas. Then the Labour Party and the Left asked the question. So this is a question that all the games are occupied with. The Education Association conducted a study on teacher leave in the secondary schools in Oppland last autumn. I'll believe it's been completed in all the counties. The survey, which was conducted in all the high schools during October, showed that permanent teachers were absent for 628 hours. This meant, on average, well below one hour per. week without teacher. But when it turns out it's 45 pst. by the absence was not inserted, however, it sounds improperly much. Then the question is whether the county council tried to save money by not inserting temporary workers. According to the county council, there is usually no money, but the lack of qualified temporary workers is the problem, and therefore the reason why there are no temporary workers. It's too few to take off, simply. This applies in particular to access to temporary workers who can enter on short notice and replace permanent teachers who have short-term absences. In the case of long-term absences and planned absences, e.g.: continuing training facilitates the insertion of temporary workers or the planning of activities for students who do not require the presence of a permanent teacher. By having good time-tables to give students an overview of what to learn, the subject to be taught and the working methods to be used, the students are better equipped to obtain a learning outcomes also from increases in the level of teacher’s absence and where it is not possible to deploy temporary workers. One of the ambitions of the Knowledge Lift is to teach the students how to learn. Good time schedules should be important, perhaps especially when there is no teacher present. This is probably right, but I think it is absolutely necessary to stress that the teacher is essential for the students' learning. It must be a clear objective to carry out the training with the teacher where it is planned. Where training is provided in workshops or in the kitchen, and where the use of equipment by students requires supervision for safety reasons, there must always be a teacher or an adult in attendance. This is a minimum of what can be expected. I mentioned that in 45 pst. Of these cases, there were no shifts - this was in Uppland. It is a fact that secondary schools have a limited number of temporary workers that can be contacted and that can be set up at short notice. It is probably not realistic to imagine a situation in which all temporary workers’ needs - and especially unforeseen short-term absences - are met by skilled teachers. Then it is important to see if it is possible to do something in relation to the internal organisation of training and perhaps the organisation of how teachers work. By e.g. an even clearer team organisation of teachers is a reason to believe that the vulnerability of the absence of individual teachers can be somewhat reduced and that other team teachers can set up at short notice. What can be done as urgent measures? I have allowed myself to propose some points here: Increased cooperation between teachers and greater flexibility in the organisation of the teacher's work is important to achieve. Where this has not already happened, special measures must be taken against the older teachers in order for them to be in the labour market as far as possible. Of course, you also need to look at what can be done to reduce sick leave, but it is usually low in this group. Each state might be able to make some kind of pool where qualified professionals could be obtained, there might be retired teachers or others with adequate education. And finally, it's important to get more people into the teaching profession. That's what you do when you raise your status.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e747	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Anundsen, for addressing an important topic, although I do not agree with all his conclusions. It is vital that students receive the education they require at school and that they do not cut during their education to reduce a tight budget. Like the representative Anundsen, I notice that in most policy areas the government keeps telling about increased transfers to municipalities and counties, but that at least as often we receive reports of concern that the increased transfers do not go beyond the general cost growth in municipalities - and hardly so. The government has promised a great deal and much in the education sector, for free teaching material, teacher's density, etc., and when these promises are not fully financed by the State, the freedom of action of the county councils is also reduced. There is a difficult situation for municipalities, but instead of talking about how to follow up election vows, speaking time - also by the Council of State here today - is spent on the starvation of the previous government. It's with respect to report a little offensive. The growth of pupils in secondary schools represents the growth of needs in the counties. If you combine student numbers growth with a coming shortage of teachers, it is obvious that we need to take the big steps to prevent the negative trend from continuing over time. We know, for example. that half of the teachers in high school are over 50 years old - who are also Christian People's Party and the Center Party were in here today - and the real teachers are even older. Many of these are going to retire in the coming years, and, to be a little rhetorical, who's going to deal with the growing student population in school? In the Left's alternative state budget, we took two steps to counter this. First of all, we proposed redispatching 500 million. kr from municipalities to counties to ensure that the secondary schools are able to handle the pupils’ growth. Secondly, in line with a proposal from the Left, we proposed to set aside 175 million. to national recruitment plans for primary and secondary school teachers. In this there are, among other things: money for senior measures to ensure that teachers at school are as active as possible. It is probably also appropriate to recall that the government parties voted against this, which I find somewhat strangely given the obvious challenge we are facing. At the top, it's really just one way to make sure that high school students get the education they need in the time that comes. Sufficient resources are being provided to enable secondary schools to operate as they are required by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e761	Finally, I think that although the representative tended not to agree with all my conclusions and with the conclusions of the Progress Party, I and the Progress Party agree with most of the conclusions that tended to be presented by the Chair. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think there has been an important debate on the continuing focus. In one area, I was a little surprised -- and I'm glad that the big chairs have armrests, because if I didn't think I had fallen off. It was the government's claim that since the government change, the negative trend in teacher density has been reversed. So that's what the Council of State says, despite the fact that in my article I was writing about the new numbers from the GSI, which are represented, among other things. in the newspaper yesterday: «Number of pupils per teacher in ordinary education has increased since the red-green government took over in 2005, from 16,82 students per teacher to 17,06.» That means that what the Council of State said from the pulpit is directly wrong. I think that's gross. Then the representative Ljunggren expected more from the representative from Vestfold. I may not have expected that, but I had actually expected the representative Ljunggren to know that this is much more than the headline in the evening post. This is a much more comprehensive problem issue, so it might be an advantage to better understand the extent of this before a greeting is sent to the representative of Vestfold. I also believe that there is quite a large body around the posts of the representative, Mr Enger, and the concrete measures she has proposed. If it had been allowed to make suggestions in interpellations and Enger's proposals had been taken up for voting today, I think they had been unanimously adopted. That is why I hope that the Council of State took note of the concrete proposals for action, and that the Council of State also takes note of the processes taking place in the Committee, where there is a very strong focus on these issues. I look forward to our cooperation on the measures to be implemented in the future. I also think that the representative Lena Jensen began very well, and I am glad that there should not be any kind of acceptance for that kind of education shoot in public schools. She chose to look back at the story - and that's probably important. But it is also important not to get caught up in history, because while the representative Jensen told about the adventurous growth in the municipal sector since the government change in 2005, the latest figures show, among other things, that. KS at 90 pst. by the municipalities must cut with a red-green government. Then I think we can again see that the reality in this room is different for the red-green government parties than for those who actually wear the shoe. Neither the representative Jensen nor I have the shoe on. It's got the municipalities. Then it becomes almost so that the struggle for words destroys for the struggle for a better reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e779	There are different ways to measure the group size in the school when it comes to learning density. What we've seen in the last two years is that if one measures this with special education or without, like one did in the article in the newspaper, the rash is slightly different. It shows a change of 0.2 in the negative direction by the one way of measuring it and 0.2 in the other way - by the mind - when one measures it the other way. So in sum, it's roughly stable, as I said before, while we had a decrease in the previous period. So I got a couple of challenges from the representative, Gundersen. Yes, that some time is spent within the framework of the school day for activities that lie within the general scope of the curriculum is correct. My impression is that there is a general acceptance and understanding that it can be done to some extent. An example of this might be: be a caretaker. What's important is that the number of hours is kept up as much as possible, but that at the same time there's room for that kind of activity -- there might be others too -- that many people think naturally goes into what we're going to have with us out of school. If that's so that the Right seriously wants to take it up to a greater extent, e.g. By delimiting the room for cleaning services or other activities within the school day, I will look closer to it. But I do not know of such a proposal at the moment. When it comes to teaching time and the absence of teachers, I will refer you to the representative, Mr. Enger, who discusses some of the complexity of those issues. We have to be very clear about the need for a teacher and the important role the teacher plays in the school, and keep it up for years to come. It is very important to look at how we can ensure that teaching is good, and to ensure that teachers are the ones who can provide such education in the school. At the same time, there is today an overarching regulation with a significant degree of local freedom of action with regard to how one practices the legislation in order to teach. I would like to say to the representative Gundersen that I do not believe a cut of 250 million. kr to the county council, which, as far as I am concerned, is in its alternative budget proposal, could be a contribution to solving some of the problems he himself raised in his article. To the left: I understand that the left does not like to be reminded of the previous ageing period and the municipal economy for which they were responsible. But the post of the representative Tenden could give a glimpse that the Left now suggests an increase in the billion-dollar class of the local economy, which is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e792	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-15.ana.ud1584e832	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
