ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e117	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e120	I am pleased to present a proposal from Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself on the establishment of hatchery and melting facilities for salmon in Tana.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e125	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e139	I'm not going to take a long time. I just want to say that there is a unanimous committee behind the proposal for a decision on the amendment of the tax agreement between the Nordic countries. But the opposition has a special note on the basis that the government has signaled that a plan to introduce a source tax for pensioners who have moved from Norway to abroad. This expresses the opposition to skepticism, and one asks that it be thoroughly analysed before making proposals for such a source tax. But the debate on that is going to take place when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e178	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e194	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e210	I just want to add a few comments to the matter. As you can see, the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is unanimous. I am pleased that both the Government and a unanimous increase believe that the OSCE must concentrate on the work on its core tasks, as a forum for dialogue and cooperation on security policy issues in a broad sense. In addition, it is important to stress the active role of the OSCE in trying to resolve the remaining conflicts in South Caucasus and Moldova, and the focus being placed on this. The OSCE has played an important role, both in the presence in the various countries and with democratisation and human rights programmes, in the transformation processes that have been carried out and which are still ongoing in some places. It is also essential that the role of the organisation in work on safety and stability be continued. Nor should the organisation focus on ethnic and regional conflicts, organised crime, trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs trafficking and international terrorism. It has also been shown in these areas that the OSCE can play an important role. Finally, I would like to stress that the decision of the Foreign Ministers of Madrid to strengthen border controls between the Central Asian countries and Afghanistan must be actively followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e221	I fully agree with what was said by the rapporteur. However, I will draw attention to what in many circles is called the forgotten war. That's the situation in Chechnya, which is far from ideal. We know that it is a difficult matter to deal with Russia, but nevertheless the OSCE, if practical, should address this with the Russian authorities. I've spent some time reading some of what political journalist Anna Politkovskaya has written. I just have to admit that it was a shocking reading. The situation may appear to be somewhat stable, but it is far from a peaceful and fair situation. So my call is, if that's possible, please keep up the situation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e228	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e244	I take the floor as the actual rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 25-digit number In retrospect, I have understood that the rules are such that if the case rapporteur has an alternate within the time of delivery, the alternate representative will also automatically be appointed as the case rapporteur. I get to put on my coat that I was not aware of this, because then, of course, I would have added the discharge to another day - not that it matters so much. So to the news of NATO's activities this year that went on. So when you read the annual reports about NATO, it's not just this one, it's three things that, in my opinion, are striking. One is NATO's incredible adaptability and ability to change and modernise in relation to the changed security policy framework conditions. The second is that the NATO alliance has been at least as much as the EU as a stabilising element in the new democracies of Eastern and Central Europe. This part of NATO's business over the last two decades has not always been as well known or watched. The third is NATO's capacity for constructive compromises, although the starting point for the countries has been different. From the Norwegian side, important policy results have been achieved by several cross-roads. In the 1990s, a number of countries in Eastern and Central Europe were committed to ensuring their independence through NATO's collective security and the EU's economic and political communities. The 1997 NATO Summit gave a clear signal to Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Today, NATO includes 26 countries. Albania and Croatia will also soon become members. I also believe that the future of the Western Balkans with economic development and stability lies within a Euro-Atlantic framework. In addition, at some point Ukraine and Georgia will be more closely involved in the alliance, but there is still much left in qualifying for membership. The Communication states that NATO cooperation in 2007 was strongly committed both to the United States and to the European Allies to seek common solutions to common security policy challenges within the framework of NATO. This will is based on a common recognition that a strong transatlantic community of interests and values is necessary to address the challenges facing the alliance. After the presidential elections in France, a new dynamic has emerged in the French position on NATO. Although France continues to give priority to defence and security policy within the EU, the President makes it clear that there should be no competitive relationship between the EU and NATO. NATO today has 50,000 troops engaged in peace missions on three continents and has thus become a major factor alongside the UN for global security. The main operational challenge is, and will be for a long time in the future, the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. ISAF operates on a mandate from the UN Security Council. At the same time, Norway has also joined the NATO Alliance to strengthen its development efforts in Afghanistan. It is now important that the world community supports Kai Eide in his work, which the Paris donor country conference also gave hope. A field in which NATO can play an important role in the future is in terms of arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. It's exciting here that NATO is working on a new strategic concept. Nuclear policy and non-proliferation will be central issues here, together with transatlantic dialogue, EU-NATO relations, cooperation on military capabilities, the use of NATO Response Force and the follow-up to Security Council Resolution 1325, on women in security policy and when peace is to be built. Finally, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have a special note in the attitude of the Government to the possible plans of the United States for a missile shield in Europe and how NATO is to deal with this. I assume that they themselves will justify their minority comment. Let me stress that Norway, of course, in this matter, as in other matters, gives NATO bodies what is our primary position. It does all member countries in different matters. This is how it is negotiated to a final communiqué, where Norway was able to implement mandatory formulations on disarmament, on arms control and on non-proliferation this time. I also show that the rocket shield case was thoroughly dealt with in this room on 20 May, and I refer to my post then. In addition, this issue will be fully addressed in the next year’s report on NATO’s activities, namely its activities in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e272	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e288	When the Stortinget recently discussed the annual report of the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I focused on the range of cases before the European Court of Human Rights. Russia's failure to ratify Protocol 14 is an obstacle to improving the effectiveness of the Court, which we all know is imperative. As a member of the Council of Europe Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, I have been in this position for almost three years. At the meeting of the Committee on 2 June, this was again the subject, where we had also invited the chairman of the Russian Committee to discuss the matter. Unfortunately, the committee chairman did not meet, but the committee had an interesting discussion on the matter, in which the Russian members of the committee also took an active part. The Committee decided that our committee leader, Herta Deubler-Gmelin, former German Minister of Justice, would go to Moscow for talks in the Duma on ratification of the protocol. We also decided to add the committee meeting to Moscow in November, for the same reason. Both I and others, during the debate in Stortinget in May, also urged the Minister of Foreign Affairs to influence the Russian authorities to ratify the protocol as soon as possible. I have seen in the media that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had extensive contact with his Russian colleague lately. It might therefore be interesting to hear whether Protocol 14 has been the subject of the talks, and, if so, how the Russian reactions were.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e302	The President then gives the floor to the rapporteur, Alf Ivar Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e305	Thank you, President. I discovered that the Progress Party was very early outside, but it was nice in the summer weather. We have been discussing the report on the work of the Council of Europe in 2007. Let me note that the Committee agrees that this work is important for our continent. Significant emphasis has been placed on following up the action plan adopted in 2005. These include strengthening the human rights system, democratic work, cooperation with the EU and the OSCE, intercultural dialogue and further development of the Council of Europe as an organisation. The Committee also notes that the Council of Europe has particular competence in some of these areas - such as human rights, democratic development - not least local democracy development - and this with the development of the rule of law. There is considerable work to be done, but the Committee points out that there is a small cautionary warning against spreading too much. The Council should stay within its core areas and strengthen cooperation with the OSCE, the EU and the United Nations. As the previous speaker pointed out, there is still work to get Russia to ratify Protocol 14. It is a work that is necessary for the work of the Council of Europe to go a little more smoothly than is the case now. The Committee is pleased that Norway provides support to the Human Rights Fund of the Council of Europe in cooperation with the euro bank. It is also positive that Norway has ratified the Convention on Trafficking in Human Beings, which provides protection for children from sexual exploitation. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e320	I will follow up the question from the representative, Mr Vaksdal, and once again state that it is good for Norwegian parliamentarians to keep this matter warm and address it in all respects. Russia is the only member of the Council of Europe who has not ratified Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is serious because the Protocol cannot enter into force until Russia has ratified it. ==References== 25 pst. of complaints against Russia. The lack of Russian ratification of Protocol 14 also makes it difficult to proceed with further reform measures that are necessary in order for the human rights package to exist as an effective protection of human rights in Europe. It's the way it was said that it's the Russian Duma who voted this out. The Russian Justice Minister should have asked the new State Duma to reconsider the issue of ratification, but the signals from Moscow are not positive, as we consider it. We have raised this question on several occasions. The Prime Minister took it up in Moscow in June 2007, and I recorded it in my talks in the Churches with the Russian Foreign Minister last week. Let me also mention that my State Secretary Elisabeth Walaas has taken it up in the Council of Europe, and my office has taken it up in security policy consultations. Foreign Minister Lavrov gave a rather sober assessment of the situation with regard to the state Duma, and also raised the question that is now being debated in certain circles, whether or not a Protocol 15 should be considered, which could be a new modified protocol which might allow further progress to be made. But I can confirm to the representative and to the overall committee that this is a priority for Norway and will address it on any appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e329	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e345	It has been submitted to Annex VI to the Antarctic Treaty, a Treaty on the Protection of the Environment of 4 October 1991. The Treaty is a comprehensive document which provides for a significant environmental protection in this vulnerable area. It is defined as a protection area and an area reserved for peace and scientific research. Today's debate is, as I said, a further development of the 1991 Treaty. What is important now is that it obliges the polluter to clean up, or alternatively there are opportunities to get others to clean up against the damage to the polluter in the event of a fault. We find that Antarctica has become interesting in travel life. Not least was a Norwegian ship, the ‘Nordkapp’, on a sightseeing trip from Chile and got a grounding, and it could have ended up with an environmental disaster if luck had not stood by the ship in such a way as it did. It clearly shows how important it is to get this attachment in place. However, what must be a long-term overall objective is to go beyond the compromise set out in the Annex. For the purposes of this Annex, tourist traffic and tourist ships shall apply. The long-term objective must be that all activities in Antarctica are subject to the same strict requirements for complete clean-up. Only it can satisfy the consideration of the vulnerability that we have in this particular area. With these comments, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e360	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Votation. See page 3785]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17.ana.ud1058e376	No one has asked for the floor. The size has now come to issue no. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3786]] However, the President would suggest that we start with that matter at the evening meeting. 18th@item: inlistbox - No one has opposed it, and this morning's meeting is cancelled.
