ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Per Rune Henriksen. - Other proposals are not available, and Per Rune Henriksen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget's meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e48	First I have been told to point out that there is a comma error in the institution's I. The Credit Supervision Act § 1, first paragraph, No. 3 is replaced by the following: ‘Non-life insurance corporations, including non-resident non-life insurance corporations’ agent in Norway, and reinsurance corporations. [[main agent]] ‘... So the last decimal was out of the question. Odelstinget is currently examining the position of the Financial Committee on the law relating to changes to the Depositary Pensions Act, the Insurance Disposal Act, the Insurance Act and the Securities Trading Act. The proposal proposes the prohibition of commissions from insurance companies to insurance brokers, proposals to extend the scope of the tax-advanced pension for self-employed and freelancers and proposals for the implementation of the EEA rules corresponding to the reinsurance Directive. Furthermore, it is proposed to include a reference to the medical pension scheme for doctors in the Act on the Protection of supplementary pension rights for workers and self-employed persons moving within the EEA territory. Four minor corrections/precisions are also proposed in the Law on Banking Insurance Schemes, the Insurance Act and the Securities Trading Act. The Committee endorses the proposed legislative changes promoted by the Government in this proposition. But there is one area where the Committee sees differences in the Government's proposals. This concerns the Government's wish to have a general ban on commissions from insurance companies and other insurance providers on insurance brokers. It is a proposal that the Government claims will create independence between the insurance companies and the insurance brokers, and strengthen confidence in the players in the insurance market. The minority, consisting of the Advance Party, Right and Left, sees it as positive that the Government emphasises that independence and transparency are central conditions for ensuring increased competition, but indicates that in international insurance mediation, the general rule is that insurance broker services are provided in the form of commissions from insurance companies. A ban on commissions with a few exceptions, as proposed by the Government, could weaken competition in the Norwegian market as such a ban could impede the use of the distribution channel through insurance brokers. This will be the case in particular in relation to new entrants which will have a higher threshold to offer their services to Norwegian customers. The minority shows, among other things: to the opinion of the CRA on the proposal of the Banking Law Commission, where the CRA does not recommend the imposition of a prohibition on commissions - this is because the CRA considers that the market would be able to regulate the form of settlement as appropriate. However, this requires sufficient information for customers in the market, and the minority therefore underlines the importance of disclosure and transparency throughout the insurance market. The minority therefore asks the Government to consider returning to the Storting with proposals for measures to ensure this. The minority, represented by the Party of Advances, Right and Left, have noticed that the Government proposes some exemptions from the prohibition on brokerage commission. These relate to particular aspects of international insurance activities. However, the minority considers that the proposed exemptions do not go far enough and that the exemption should primarily also apply to large Norwegian companies already subject to contractual freedom in existing insurance legislation. However, if such an additional exception to the presumption does not obtain a majority, the minority will join the proposed secondary. Since the prohibition of brokerage commissions will lead to changes in industry practices with regard to the remuneration of insurance brokers with possible changes in the personal economy of many brokers as a consequence, the minority of the Government is asking for a smooth transitional regime in line with the one used in the amendment of Danish legislation in the area in 2005. Such a transitional period should be provided for in close dialogue with industry actors. The Committee endorses the other legislative proposals of the proposal unanimously, but all four opposition parties assume that changes proposed in the Credit Supervision Act do not entail any change in relation to the possibility for Norwegian companies to purchase reinsurance in third countries, even if the reinsurance is then placed in a reinsurance company which is not subject to public supervision in their home country. The minority refers to the Main Organisation hearings held by the Financial Industry, where the organisation clarifies the importance that this option does not deteriorate in relation to the current situation. I would like to take up with this the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting together with the Right and the Left. Should this proposal fall, these parties will vote in favour of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e81	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory period is over, but will propose that the Odelsting meeting continue until the current map has been completed. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e86	Despite the fact that darkness has subsided not only over the representatives, but over Oslo, and that there has been a long day that has now gone by evening, I want to move on to say something about this matter. I believe this is a very good consumer case, which has part of the same touch that the law on real estate had. Therefore, I do not want to ignore it in silence even if it is late. The Government proposes to prohibit commissions from insurance companies to insurance brokers, to extend the scope of the tax-favored pension for self-employed and freelancers and to propose the implementation of the EEA rules corresponding to the reinsurance Directive. It is the case, as the rapporteur said, that in most areas there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee which concludes on the Government's proposals for the various legislative changes. However, in some areas there are shades in the comments and, as the rapporteur said, also amendments from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left on one point. Of the changes promoted, it is a positive case that it is open to self-employed and freelancers to benefit from a deduction of risk coverage, i.e. disability and survivors' benefits, relating to the tax-favorised pension scheme. This was an issue that was raised when Stortinget adopted the legal regulation at the end of May 2006 that occupational pensions should enter into force from 1 January 2006. In the following, I will concentrate mainly on matters where there is a different view of what has been presented, whether it is in comments from the minority, or where, through external enquiries, views have come to light. It concerns matters relating to the prohibition of commissions from insurance companies and other insurance providers to insurance brokers. The discussion is mainly linked to two themes: one is the consideration of transitional rules or further exemptions from the prohibition of commissions from insurance companies to insurance brokers in the case of larger enterprises already subject to contractual freedom in the applicable insurance legislation. The four opposition parties consider that the Government should provide for a smooth transitional arrangement and that it should be established in a dialogue with industry actors. Here I would like to point out that the Government's proposal is the result of a very comprehensive process, and the players in the insurance industry, including representatives from the insurance brokers, have been involved in the whole process. The intention of predictability and adaptation to the market is, as I see it, well taken care of. It would be unfortunate if transitional rules were to have such an extent and substance as to weaken confidence in the independence and transparency of insurance brokers in the market. I would like to point out here that on 11 October 2002 the Finanznudustrie Head Office established an industry standard for the relationship of insurance companies with non-life insurance brokers. This norm was that insurance companies should not pay commissions to insurance brokers, i.e. that they agreed with the Government. A corresponding industry standard for life insurance was adopted on 9 December 2005. The three opposition parties to the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are in favour of the fact that the same exemption granted by the Government for international insurance activities with regard to the prohibition of brokerage commissions shall also apply to large Norwegian enterprises. As I see it, further expansion of the exemptions will weaken the positive effects of the ban in terms of less effective competition in the market. The more exceptions we make, the more the scope of the ban will be eroded. I would like to stress that the proposal does not propose a prohibition on brokerage commission/payment of commissions to insurance brokers. I have received a few simple enquiries where you have almost understood it this way. What this matter is about is who will pay the commission. The proposal introduces a prohibition on insurance companies and other insurance providers paying commissions to insurance brokers. Commissions and other commissions n.e.c. must therefore be paid by the insurance customer. An insurance broker shall maintain the interests of the client and, when it is the insurance company that pays the commission to the broker, it may create unfortunate conflicts of interest. The proposal will therefore, in the opinion of the majority and the Government, help to strengthen the independence of insurance companies and brokers, thereby also strengthening the confidence of insurance market players. I am not in doubt that the Government's proposal that remuneration for insurance brokers be agreed with the customer before the assignment is completed will also make a significant contribution to strengthening the transparency of the insurance market. Arguments have been argued that a conversion in which insurance customers are required to pay the commission will weaken the use of insurance brokers as the distribution channel. It is difficult to see why the fact that insurance customers pay the commission themselves would lead to a deterioration in the use of insurance brokers as a distribution channel. There is little reason to believe that the legislative proposal will make it more difficult for new start-ups in the insurance market. On the contrary, it must be assumed that the increased transparency of the proposal will make it easier for new entrants to reach insurance customers with their offers. So I would like to point out that in the government's proposal there are exceptions to counteract unfortunate situations. The Government’s proposal provides for derogations from the prohibition of brokerage commissions in the international insurance market where brokerage commissions have been incorporated by all parties. In particular, there is a need not to create competitive disadvantages for national insurance companies and brokerage undertakings which have been decisive in the design of exemptions. The considerations which advocate a ban on insurance companies paying brokers' commissions also argue that exceptions to the general rule should not be greater than necessary. The proposed exemptions from the brokerage commission ban are of limited scope in relation to the insurance market as a whole. Then I see that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left point out that the wording of Section 5-2a(h) creates room for interpretation, and they propose it amended. As I understand it, there is agreement that the term ‘just international transport of goods’ means ‘goods transported outside Norway’. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation on the various points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e122	The rapporteur-in-chiefly explained the matter. In addition, he has presented the proposals on which the Right is involved, including the rather comprehensive comment that we have. I just want to underline a couple of relationships. The first is that today there is a relatively narrow competition in this area. It is a three-four players that have a very large market share. Then it goes without saying that new insurers run a big risk by establishing themselves in the market. In other words, there is no effective good competition and distribution through insurance brokers is needed. It can be very competitive. So it's true, as the representative Jakobsen says, that this case may have a certain similarity to the case of the new law on real estate. What's equal is that when the red-green parties hear the word "commission", they have a spinal reflex that says that something must be wrong here. But it is not in this case. In international insurance mediation, the general rule is that the services of the insurance broker are provided in the form of commissions from insurance corporations. And a ban could undoubtedly weaken the Norwegian market. That's what we want - that it's going to be the best market possible that works best for users. The last point I want to raise concerns competition. It is quite surprising in this case that it is the credit supervision in its opinion on the Banking Law Commission’s proposal that has had to go ahead and say that there is no reason to recommend the imposition of a prohibition on commission, but that the market should regulate this form of settlement itself. Very often, when the Finance Committee debates its issues, it is safe and safe for most people to land on what the Credit Authority believes. I note that in this case it is the opposition that has found it safe, and the position is not quite so safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e136	I was actually going to make posts, but I think I'm going to do it with a line, because I'm going to stick to all that Alf E. Jacobsen has said. I have a question for Svein Flätten, because I try and try and read the minority's comments and understand what they really mean, and what they're really afraid of. Because it's not like we're imposing a ban on commissions, but we're imposing a ban on commissions being paid by the person who actually offers the insurance. And then the question is very simple: how in the world can the representative fleet think that this will weaken competition? You have to have some arguments. If the fleet is a broker and is going to offer me - as in this case Telenor Mobil - an insurance contract, why is it that this competition that the fleet is talking about is weakened by the fact that I am paying commission on the insurance offered by the fleet, rather than that it is the insurance company that pays it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e143	This is relatively easy to explain, and I think I talked about it in my post. Here we have an international industry, and in international insurance mediation, the general rule is that the services of insurance brokers are provided precisely in the form of commissions from insurance companies. Although the representative Holmås may not like that, it is quite obvious that we will be able to get international companies to come in and do this. I see no reason for us to prohibit this, and I feel completely secure, since the Credit Authority also recommends that this be handled by the market itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e148	The question is very simple. If the fleet does a good enough job for me as the person who needs this insurance, why should it not be so worldwide that this insurance company, regardless of where it comes from - whether it comes from the rest of the world or from Norway - is willing to pay exactly the same, so lower the price of the insurance corresponding to the commission that the fleet would otherwise have if the insurance company in question were to offer me an insurance scheme? In this way, the insurance company will come out with an exactly as good deal as they would otherwise, and I wanted the loyalty of the fleet with me, instead of the loyalty of the insurance company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e153	The answer to this is relatively short. I'm not going to meet it with a counter question, but just say like that: what is the problem that we have several ways to solve this, which the Credit Authority also recommends? Why should we restrict these possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e158	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 279]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e175	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e184	The running and rest periods legislation is constantly evolving to meet the overall objectives of improving road safety, improving working conditions for drivers and ensuring a level playing field in the transport industry. Regulation [[EF]] It also contains provisions to strengthen enforcement opportunities in order to contribute to improved road safety, improved working conditions for drivers and equal competition in the road transport industry. Three of these provisions constitute the background to the present proposal. This is a matter in which, through the EEA Agreement in Norway, we adapt to what the EU is doing. Many times such adaptations, according to the opinion of the Progress Party, go too fast and too unreserved. It's often a good idea to think about it. This is also the case in this area, which is an important area. It is important to facilitate improved road safety, improved working conditions for drivers and equal competition in road transport. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the entire Committee has gathered on a number of comments that lead to the understanding and enforcement of both the regulations in place and the laws introduced by this matter. I would encourage the Council of State to confirm that she will follow the leadership of a joint committee, since the Storting has a little different experience just following up committee comments with clear political content. I would like to point out in particular the following comment: ‘The Committee has noted that, in dialogue with the actors concerned, the Ministry will review the need for any permanent national derogation in regulations regulating driving and rest periods before the expiry of the temporary derogations on 1 August 2008. The Committee takes the view that there will be a thorough dialogue and that the Ministry takes the view that national rules provide for the necessary permanent derogations for exceptional circumstances and that adjusted regulations also do not result in national aggravations in the regulations not provided for in the Directive. ‘This should not be misunderstanding! I quote from the box: ‘The committee has noticed that the bill opens the door for the regional road office to have the same authority as the police today to order the necessary rest. The Committee takes the view that such powers are also used by the vegetate with flexibility and sound discretion. ‘... I assume that the majority of the comments are justified by the parties involved. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are united on comments recommending permanent exceptions from the driving and rest periods for circus activities. It is a type of activity for which EU countries themselves provide specific provisions and permanent derogations. It becomes particularly important when the majority requires circus activities to be subject to the same rules for driving and rest periods as drivers who drive long-distance transport by goods. The Progress Party is positively set to implement national adaptations to legislation and regulations relating to changes to pan-European rules on driving and rest periods for heavy-duty drivers. In a common and international transport market, it is important that the law is as uniform as possible in order to provide a level playing field and a level playing field and to contribute to increased road safety. However, we reject the fact that national adaptation should lead to changes in laws and regulations that are not justified by changes in pan-European rules and that national adaptations do not take the necessary account of specific national conditions related to heavy road transport. We point in particular to the use of cars for the winter operation of the road network, driving conditions in winter and conditions related to the use of national road ferries - special Norwegian conditions where flexibility rather than bureaucratic regulation can contribute better to increased road safety. The Progress Party has perceived that some EU countries have continued or introduced national provisions giving rise to national divergences in relation to the Regulation. The Progress Party believes that Norway should also be able to do so. I refer to the proposal No of the Progress Party. 1 and 2. The Progress Party will vote against both the change in the title and the change in the content of Section 36.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e223	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e226	The proposed changes to the running and sleep time characteristics should provide a more effective management of the rules, making them harder to break. When the rules are followed more closely, there is good reason to believe that there will be fewer accidents and better working conditions for drivers. In concrete terms, the change implies that even those who order transport are obliged to ensure that the transport is constructed in line with the rules on running and sleeping time. This obligation to facilitate legal implementation is important. There have undoubtedly been situations in which the contractor's demands and expectations have resulted in a pressure on the carrier and drivers towards breaches of the company's obligations. The changes also mean that the Car Authority will be allowed to stop running if they find serious violations of running and sleeping time rules. This is also how the Automobile Authority, not only the police, as today, can prevent a stunned driver from continuing the trip, with them going within it. These are the changes we're glad we're now getting in place. In addition, some other changes of a more technical nature are made. I would like to underline the importance of ensuring good training and follow-up of the Road Safety Control staff when applying both new and current rules, so that they can carry out the work in accordance with the purpose and in a way that creates respect and understanding in the industry. It appears from the proposal that the Ministry will review the need for permanent national derogations from the rules before the expiry of the temporary derogations on 1 August 2008, and that this will be done in dialogue with those affected by the legislation. Bridge cars on our mountain crossings are an example of the fact that strange conditions may require special attention in connection with this type of legislation. It is important that the Department undertakes such a review. I think it is crucial that laws and regulations in the field of transport contribute as much as possible to increased road safety. Performance-based remuneration, in particular accruals, in the transport sector may lead to pressure on the driver, which in turn may endanger road safety. The Labour Party and our good friends in the Centre Party and SV therefore believe that the legislation and follow-up of the legislation must prevent such a pay system, a pay system that motivates economic violations of the rules on running and sleeping time or in other ways leads to reduced road safety. I have no doubt that wages and salaries depending on the distance and amount of goods are often such that road safety can be reduced. The Labour Party and the Labour Party will therefore conclude that the remuneration of the piecework is contrary to the intentions of the running and dormant days. We discussed the situation in the taxi industry in Stortinget earlier today. Where wages and salaries are also designed to provide a basis for similar questions of road safety and the working environment. But, as you know, dross are not covered by the running and sleeping time zones.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e247	SV supports and welcomes the changes that are now coming to strengthen the working environment of drivers in the transport industry and road safety along Norwegian roads. This is necessary, because we all know that traffic is increasing dramatically, and we hear stories about drivers being pushed beyond what is right. Until we have managed to get more of this growth in freight traffic onto the railway, we need to have rules to ensure that road safety is ensured and that the working environment is also sound. There are many considerations that need to be reconciled when it comes to legislation in these areas. This is, of course, an EU legislation that is being introduced by us, and there may be problems in relation to national conditions - as the previous speaker said - that we have to try to adapt it to, so that it becomes useful. The Committee has agreed to this. In addition, we need to look at how the competition regimes, certain types of rules, working environment policies and other policies will work together and work well. Also part of the taxi industry is regulated by this. Before that, the limit for the number of seats 15 of the new Regulation was the limit 9. That means that part of what's called the maxitaxi industry is affected by this. The maxitaxes transport people with reduced mobility. Especially for those who need wheelchairs, a maximumx is absolutely necessary - either to be able to use the TT service, or to be able to take a normal taxi ride, as we do for the rest. From a very large number of places in the country, it is now reported that there will be fewer and fewer maxitaxes. It is not because the permissions do not exist, but because they are not applied for. And that's because there's a lot of rules that now work at the same time, and that makes it less and less profitable for the taxi industry to choose to buy a maxitaxi instead of a small car. It'll be a big problem. There will be a long wait and, in part, a lack of offer for those who need a maxitaxi in order to be able to move and cannot benefit from a normal taxi. The legislation we have now received works together with part of the other legislation regulating the taxi industry, both in terms of permissions, paid public transport, coordinated transport and the use of tenders. Many of these things work together, and a lot of them are meant to save public money. But the problem is that all of these rules kind of end up with a taxi industry that almost doesn't have the big cars that people with disabilities have to have in order to be able to transport. For example: Hedmark is now subject to several such permits, and it is notified by the county council, which is responsible for this, that they do not get anyone to apply for them. That means you have to look at how all of these rules work together. Hopefully, if not for a very long time, the Government will present a new anti-discrimination law and for accessibility for people with disabilities, where demands are to be made in different areas and where transport is to be possible, whether there are different problems in this area. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether the Government will look into this area and the problems that arise, among other things. to ensure that we have enough cars adapted to wheelchair users. I am absolutely convinced that a new approach is needed in order not to risk a situation in which all the rules and the various market organisations work together - to put it that way. Today it is to apply for taxi tickets, something you do voluntarily. It's hard to impose. However, some people need to ensure that this important transport offer for people with reduced mobility and need a large car will continue to be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e264	I hope that Odelstinget has excused me for not being able to answer all the detailed questions in this matter, but I refer you to the statement made by Torstein Rudihagen from the Committee on Transport and Communications, to Karin Andersen's statements now and to the statements made by the rapporteur on the matters in which the Committee agrees. In agreement with the Minister for Transport, I would like to answer the question of transport for people with disabilities, because there are quite a number of people who have now had their freedom of movement reduced. As the representative Karin Andersen had in mind, there are two good goals that can collide in this matter: the objective of having healthy, rested drivers on large cars, and the objective of also having disabled people have the right to move freely. We know that there's a problem that the number of maxitaxes is going down, and this could be one of the reasons for dealing with the matter today. The provision currently under consideration in Stortinget has already entered into force from 2 July 2007. So the new limit of nine passengers has been effective. We see that the number of maxitaxes goes down, and we know that it can be related to the PRM opportunities to meet their transport needs. In agreement with the Minister for Transport, as mentioned above, I will answer the following question from the representative Karin Andersen: In principle, the EEA Regulation on driving and rest periods will not allow Norway to provide less stringent rules on driving and rest periods for the type of occasional passenger service we are now discussing, i.e., transport by means of macsitaxis. However, the government will address this issue with the EU. While one should consider that road safety considerations are in the main against imposing less stringent requirements for drivers to have sufficient breaks and rest periods, I believe that consideration for disabled people should be given more weight. If there are no particularly serious reasons for the road safety of the EU proposal, it is our opinion that a derogation can be negotiated, as has been done in several other areas in the transport sector. So this is a matter that the Government will address with the EU, to see if it is possible to find a flexible way to ensure the transport of people with disabilities for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e283	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e291	During the debate, the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 10 June 2005 41 on insurance mediation is amended as follows: I
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e650	The Progress Party, the Right and the Left have announced that, as their proposals have fallen, they will support the vote subsidiaryly on these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e668	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e678	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e686	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2 by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the introduction of new driving and rest regulations is postponed. New regulations are being developed which take more clearly into account specific Norwegian driving conditions, which continue to exempt transport within a radius of 100 km and which generally grant exemptions for road maintenance/winter operations. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to provide for a permanent derogation for circus activities from the provisions and regulations on driving and rest periods of the Road Traffic Act, including requirements for tachographs. ‘... These proposals will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e772	It is first quoted above the title of § 36 and § 36 new no. 9, under I. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e787	So it goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e797	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e807	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04-lower.ana.ud1411e828	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
