ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e40	Honourable co-representatives! Mr. Stortingsretten Petter Løvik passed away on 3 December 2007 - only 58 years old. Petter Løvik was born on July 11, 1949 in Volda. After completing economic upper secondary school in 1969, he began at the Bergen School of Commerce and took the civil economist's degree in 1975. In 1976 he took over his father's business in Volda and drove him until 1997, when he was elected to the Stortinget. In 1982 he became amanuensis at the High School of Volda. Apart from a three-year break from 1985 as head of industry in Volda, he remained in the teaching position at the university until the Grand Prix in 1997. Petter Løvik was elected to Volda City Council in 1979. He was a member of the local government until 1997. From 1983 to 1987 he was also a member of the Presidency. From 1982 to 1991 he was a member of the district council of More and Romsdal. Petter Løvik was the leader of Møre and Romsdal Right in the years 1994-1997, and was also a member of the Right Central Government during the same period. In 1989 he was elected second alternate for the Right in More and Romesdal, while in 1993-1997 he was the first alternate. In 1997, he was elected as a representative. At Stortinget he was a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee for the period 1997-2001. In the period 2001-2005, Petter Løvik was the head of the Transport Committee, while he was a member of the Business Committee for the current period. During the previous period he was also a member of the EEA Committee. For several years, Petter Løvik was the waster in Løvebakken Mållag. Petter Løvik was a hardworking representative and was fully involved in the matters under which he was a member at all times. But he never forgot his belongings as a representative of Moor and Romsdal especially and for Coast Norway in general. He also had a professional link to district policy and to the work to promote growth and economic development - which is also evident from the long range of professional writings from the Hojskulen in Volda/Møreforschung with Petter Løvik as the author. The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, said in his memory that it was as the head of the Committee on Transport that Petter Løvik really flourished. It is not difficult to agree to such an assessment. Here he had ample opportunity to share in realising the desire for action and reform in a community area that was also close to his heart. It still feels pretty unreal to talk about Petter Løvik in the past. All those who have enjoyed working with Petter Løvik here in Stortinget since 1997 will carry with them the image of a co-representative who combined an almost unstoppable joy over a real political basket with opponents of opinion with equal joy over pleasant contact and association across all political divisions. An unusually fine human being has gone away. We really miss him -- both as a community builder and as a human being. We remember Petter Løvik for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e64	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Bjørn Jacobsen on leave from 28 January to 30 January to take part in the election observation of the Council of Europe before the Presidential elections in Armenia of the representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal on leave from 28 January to 30 January to take part in the Wilton Park Conference in the United Kingdom On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ingrid I. OpedalFor the South Trondelag counties: Ingvild Vaggen MalvikIngrid I. Opedal is elected to the Laging House for the time she meets the representative of Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e107	Ingrid I. Opedal and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e113	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today - and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen. - Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen is unanimously elected president of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e124	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e127	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Leif Helge Kongshaug, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to propose a teacher's vow for teachers in primary and secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e132	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e143	A new alternate shall be elected to the Electoral Committee following the resignation of the representative Petter Løvik at death. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e148	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e155	Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as a new alternate to the Election Committee after Petter Løvik. Other proposals are not available, and Mr Halleraker is unanimously elected as a new alternate member of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e170	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1836]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e188	The market economy as a basic economic structure has proved superior to the planned economy, and it is emerging across large parts of the world. The market economy creates good incentives for the value creation and efficient use of resources. The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the shift towards a market economy in most Eastern European countries have given the population more democracy, higher standards of living and freedom of expression. This does not mean that the market economy is self-regulatory and flawless. On the contrary, market failures must be corrected and the market economy regulated in such a way as to ensure competition and respect the rules of the game. For the past 25-30 years, the economy - not only in our part of the world, but in large parts of the world - has been liberalized. Globalisation contributes to growth, development and well-being, but at the same time we face new challenges. Pursuing the greatest possible return leads some actors to take too large a risk that not only affects themselves but also others, and some actors are willing to break rules - perhaps because the risk of being taken is too small, but also because the possibility of winning is great. No economic system is perfect, but an obvious advantage of an open and market-based economy is that the failures and scandals are revealed. Time and again, however, we are reminded that policy is lagging behind and that the lack of supranationality weakens our ability to ensure the rules of the economy. The Enron scandal in the United States is produced as ‘the true face of capital’ or as a result of ‘the power of the market’. I believe that this matter was first and foremost the importance of control mechanisms that can reveal breaches of the rules in the market. A well-functioning market depends on both written and unwritten rules of behaviour. The violation of the rules must be exposed and have consequences, as it did in the Enron case. In this way, the negative effects and the ringing effects are minimised. The Terra Securities scandal is another example of the willingness of some to cross borders to maximise returns and illustrates the need for regulatory review and supervisory arrangements to ensure that these are better adapted to the challenges. The liberalisation of financial markets has been necessary, not least in Nordic countries, which were relatively late in this field. The ongoing development of the liberalisation of financial markets has contributed to more competition, far more products and increased customer accessibility. A Norwegian mortgage customer has increased market power, and the bank interest margin has been pushed downwards. Norwegian financial actors are now offering a wide range of financial services in insurance, loans and savings. It is a positive development that has given better products at a lower price to consumers and businesses. Stock and bond markets are naturally characterised by business cycles, business profitability expectations and main commodity prices. In order to address the uncertainty of investments in such securities, new products such as derivatives and swaps have developed rapidly. In recent years, there has been the emergence of a market for so-called structured financial products. Such products are a combination of traditional securities such as shares, bonds and derivatives. Thus, it becomes more difficult and difficult for customers to know what products they have purchased and what risk they take of investment. In addition, commission-based financial advice may have an unfortunate impact by the fact that the seller of the product wishes to have a higher risk profile on the investment than is appropriate in relation to the customer’s economy. The combination of complex products and more active sales to customers without sufficient financial competence, as in the Terra case, can have very serious consequences. It's important that we learn from the Terra thing. In this context, it must be assessed whether it could have been avoided or limited by better supervision at a previous stage. It has been discovered that both parties - Terra Securities that sell the products and the municipalities that buy the products - have breached the law and regulations. Then there are questions about the supervision has been good enough. The Bondevik II Government submitted its own notification of State supervision. In St.meld. No 17 for 2002-2003 it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The financial supervision of financial corporations and markets shall detect and prevent breaches of the applicable financial system regulations. Increasing complexity in undertakings and markets has led to more difficult control of risks through the use of regulation. An increasingly important part of financial supervision therefore consists of identifying risks in financial markets and undertakings in order to ensure that risks are not greater than the ability to bear such risks.’;» In addition, it says: ‘It is also a primary objective of regulation and supervision to protect consumers and other users of financial services. In important areas, supervisors manage their clients’ capital in different ways.’;» In addition to assessing whether supervision has been satisfactory, it is also necessary to ask whether the credit supervision has sufficient resources and whether supervision adequately focuses on its task of ‘discovering and preventing breaches of current financial system regulations’, or whether resource scarcity indicates that the main focus is on back-testing. According to Today’s Business 21st January, the Credit Authority has to drop many issues because of resource scarcity. Over the course of a year, the number of insider dealing cases sent by Oslo Børs has almost doubled. Globalisation has increased trade and brought many millions of people out of poverty. The big picture of globalisation shows a positive development. In the context of the Terra case, we see how global financial players operate in this market. It is unlikely that some of the citizens knew that the municipal politicians were gambling in American papers related to, among other things. property prices in the United States. The free flow of capital and new technologies means that “earth is flat”, as Thomas Friedman writes in his book, but it also gives national authorities new challenges: how can we avoid or limit the impact of globalisation on Norwegian financial customers? How can we avoid Norwegian municipalities losing money on a fall in property prices in the United States? And what can we do to prevent counsellors and local politicians from playing away the people's money? There are no simple answers, but I would like to point out some measures that I ask the Minister of Finance to consider: In the Terra scandal, there is a significant lack of knowledge and competence between the seller and the customer. Consideration must be given to how to contribute to ensuring and building skills both in the financial industry and in the customers. It is necessary to ensure quality and update guidelines for the different financial actors with regard to customer information, advice and sales of particularly new, unbridled financial products. Credit supervision needs to be strengthened and the Minister of Finance needs to assess how the role of supervision in the detection and prevention of crime can be strengthened before they are committed.It is necessary to consider giving credit supervision a freer and more independent role by increasing delegation from the Ministry of Finance to supervision. It is necessary to increase and strengthen international cooperation for the exchange of experience and challenges around the emergence of new products and other threats to financial stability. Some use financial scandals and turmoil in financial markets as an argument against the market economy. I fundamentally disagree with these analyses. Just as the long-term stability and security of society depend on the market economy, so is the market economy, depending on a legal state, well-developed institutions and high social standards. The annual Economic Freedom of the World Index 2007 shows the empirical relationship between the functioning of the market economy and positive welfare developments. It also highlights the protection of property rights and good legal infrastructure as fundamental to growth and well-being. Countries with the most positive developments are characterised by a high degree of economic freedom and legal systems regulating the market. It shows the importance of independent institutions such as the Credit Authority in a society and that they are strengthening market-based solutions over time. It is of critical importance that supervision of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, is constantly improving and given competence to adapt to the new challenges. According to a lecture by Svein Gedrem in the Sparebank Association last October, poor supervision was a contributing factor in the development of the housing loan crisis. Among other things, he said:\t\t You ‘Fifth, supervisory failure has occurred. In the United States, neither the agents nor the lending institutions have been subject to federal supervision and state supervision has varied between countries.’ [[...]] I do not expect a Swedish Finance Minister to be as convinced as a Right-wing Man about the relationship between a well-functioning market economy with great economic freedom and a positive welfare development. But I hope we can meet that an important prerequisite for the functioning of the market economy and contributing to welfare development is that institutions contribute to ensuring good control practices and predictable rules. My question to the Minister of Finance is: How will the Minister of Finance ensure that the credit supervision and other control institutions are developed and strengthened so that they can manage a liberalised and globalised economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e262	I would like to start by thanking Mr Sanner for addressing a very important issue and for which there is a broad cross-political consensus that is important. This is, of course, because financial markets have undergone significant developments in recent years. Key developments are increasingly complex financial instruments, the number of transactions has increased significantly, there is a significant internationalisation, and there is an increased cross-border exchange of services and capital. So we're talking about a market that's often doubled both in number and in complexity. I intend to place the great debate on the excellence of capitalism and the blessing of the market economy in this round. I am very pleased that the representative Sanner and I can agree that an external predatory capitalism is in any case not desirable. There are no self-regulatory or error-free markets and there is a need for both law and supervision to make this work. If I were to make a small comment, it would be that the model they have in those countries that have the most liberalised economy and place the most emphasis on the market, would not initially be preferable for political reasons. On the contrary, the Nordic welfare model has proved to be not only a very good welfare model but also an economically very efficient model. I agree with Mr Sanner that developments in the financial markets make very high demands on the authorities. Sanner mentioned in particular the Competition Authority and the Credit Authority, but I concentrate on the credit supervision, as it is my responsibility. The main objective of the supervision is through the supervision of institutions and markets to contribute both to financial stability and to the functioning of markets. This is behind important socio-economic considerations and the desire to protect consumers and investors and the social economy more generally. Financial stability and well-functioning markets are necessary for economic growth and employment, which in turn are a prerequisite for high welfare and good living conditions. Just the development of these subprime loans in the United States is a very good example of the fact that, with lack of supervision, markets can develop that not only affect perhaps half a million borrowers and their families, but that get an extent that also means significant instability across society. Prevention of financial stability problems through supervision and supervision of financial institutions has become more difficult and demanding. The financial markets have increased significantly, as I was in the past. Our regulation of financial institutions must therefore build on and contribute to a good balance between competition, soundness and customer considerations. It requires clear and good legal rules and regulations. Furthermore, advanced risk management and capital planning models, complex financial products and risk transfer techniques make it much more difficult to assess the quality of the internal controls that institutions have and whether soundness is adapted to the actual risk. However, there is no doubt that supervision and control in this area are very important for the credit supervision. In addition, the Credit Authority has developed macro-economic monitoring with analyses and assessments of possible stability problems in the Norwegian financial industry. The report on the financial market condition for 2007 is presented on 28 February and will include, inter alia: contain assessments thereof. There is close cooperation between the Banking Authority and Norway’s Bank on financial stability, and there are tripartite meetings between the Ministry of Finance, Norway’s Bank and the Banking Authority on this subject. As far as the securities market is concerned, I would like to begin by pointing out that since the 1980s Norway has had a law on the securities market which has been somewhat stricter and has been ahead of developments elsewhere in Europe. With the implementation of the latest EEA rules and the EU Directive, European legislation has been further harmonised in order to ensure good rules of the game and investor protection. Norway has also developed a good regulatory enforcement standard in the last 10-15 years. In 2007, both new securities trading laws and new stock exchange laws came into place. The new Securities Trading Act shall ensure targeted and effective regulation of trading in financial instruments. In this context, it is important to note that investment advice has become a concessional activity, which means that investment advisors are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework on how to safeguard investors’ interests in an advisory situation. These legal rules impose a «property test» on the consultant, or we can say the seller, because that is what we often face in terms of financial advice. The adviser shall obtain information and assess whether the investment is consistent with the client’s investment objectives, whether the client is financially able to manage the risk, and whether the client has the experience and knowledge necessary to understand the risk. Investment advisors are under the new law under the supervision of the credit supervision, which have effective sanctioning options in the event of a breach of the law. There have been many examples of individuals who have dealt with savings products that they have not had an overview of what was. Last Saturday, there was a saver named Jan Vågenes, who had not understood what kind of conditions he went into, and had lost money. It would be contrary to the law if an adviser gave advice to enter into such a contract to a regular saver who does not have an overview of the consequences of what is being considered. So this type of product, we're going to assume that almost gets out of the market. The supervisory work places great emphasis on the prevention of crime. Control of the management of the interests of customers by undertakings is very central. Although the securities market is characterised by a desire for high profits both for customers and sellers, the main emphasis of undertakings remains within the framework of laws and regulations. The large number of supervised undertakings and the volume of transactions imply that the conduct control of the credit supervision must be based largely on random sampling. It is not possible to carry out ex-ante controls on specific products and transactions, nor would such ex-ante controls be appropriate in a liberalised and open economy. Since the credit supervision will only be able to examine concrete transactions after they have been completed, the general preventive effect is a central element in the choice of response. A cash and rapid response, based on the experience of both the Ministry of Finance and the Credit Authority, is important to mark the standard that must be expected from the entities in order to ensure future market confidence. In the last 10 years, investigations into the behaviour of investment firms have revealed a number of offences that have resulted in reactions from the credit supervision. In the most serious cases, there has been a reaction to the withdrawal of the concession, in other cases to the imposition of corrections. Since 1997, the Credit Authority has withdrawn seven concessions - six from its own inspection - as a result of a breach of conduct. The last two are the notice of withdrawal of the authorisation of Terra Securities ASA in November 2007 and the withdrawal of the authorisation of Boston Asset Management ASA in 2001. The Terra case was initiated by the fact that, on 31 October 2007, the Financial Bank had a reference to the role of Terra Securities in the purchase of US interest rate papers by Norwegian municipalities. The credit supervision immediately started investigations. At the time of the prior notification, there was sufficient factual and legal basis for the decision to revoke the authorisations. Terra Securities was given the time to make a statement, but chose to ask for a tender, i.e. bankruptcy, on November 28. Regardless of the scope of supervision of the credit supervision, it will always be the buyer, the investor or the saver who will have to consider whether to purchase a security at the end. What we can set up is a good law, a supervision that has competence and resources to review and supervise the law, and informed customers. What is incredibly important in the situation we are facing further is to be aware that the law in this field is considerably tightened in relation to when Terra offered its products to the municipalities that bought them. It would not be in line with the new legislation to sell these types of savings products to municipalities, unless they are very advanced and understand what they are going into. And it's a challenge for us to make sure that the credit supervision has sufficient resources. This is, of course, an institution financed by fees, and we are closely following the budget for next year to ensure that the resource situation is sufficient. In addition, we rely on the fact that Ecocrim has sufficient resources to follow the matters of particular gravity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e302	I thank the Minister of Finance for constructive answers. I will also leave the big debate on the economic system in this context, but I think it is important to highlight that the market economy as a system contributes to efficient resource use and that there is a need for good oversight and regulation for the functioning of the market. I also agree with the Minister of Finance that there has been a great deal of positive progress on the legal and regulatory side, and that of course it is not possible to have the type of prior control of such agreements either. However, I could imagine challenging the Minister of Finance a little bit more on what we can learn from the Terra Securities case, because it is quite obvious that there was a crime on both sides. Both the seller and the purchaser have broken the law and regulations, and I believe that it would be useful to use the case as a case and to assess whether the supervision has been sufficient. I have registered that the Minister of Finance has on several occasions boasted of the Credit Authority, and it may well be that there is a basis for doing so, but I could also imagine seeing an evaluation by the Minister of Finance, preferably presented in e.g. the credit notification. So I'm going to challenge the finance minister to respond to whether she thinks it makes sense to get a case, or an assessment in connection with a case, so that the Storting can get a review of whether the supervision has been sufficient in the context of the Terra Securities case. I also record that the Minister of Finance says that she will be included in the budget of the Credit Authority. My intention, of course, is not to advance the budgetary procedure in 2009 either - I am aware that the Minister of Finance is in the middle of the rounds now. But I think it should be possible for the finance minister to say something about whether she agrees with me that there is a need to strengthen the credit supervision in a slightly larger and longer perspective, because it is quite obvious that the supervisory tasks will not be reduced in the years that are coming, and when the day's business revealed last week that there are a number of issues transmitted from Oslo Stock Exchange as the Credit Authority and Økokrim just have to leave because they do not have the capacity, it is obvious that there are capacity limits in which they stick their heads. I also believe that it might be interesting to see whether the Credit Authority should be given a somewhat more freer position, perhaps not in the same way as the Competition Authority, but that it would help to ensure that the Credit Authority would have a stronger position in the market if it had any freer leeway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e311	I might dampen this very headstone of the market economy, considering all those who are now suffering from a lack of control and a violent drive for quick money from those who have given about. 1 1/2 million American subprime loans. Now I come straight from dealing with some of the world's richest people, and now not only the US economy, but also the world economy, based on these kinds of conveniences, where one has tricked ordinary, poor people or lower middle class in the United States to conclude loan contracts that everyone responsible should see that there was a great chance that they would not have the opportunity to serve. A lot of these people are never going to get out of it. Now you're refinancing some of it, and some are left with it, but it's clear that it has very big social consequences, as well as financial instability, and this is just saying that an alien capitalism cannot get ahead on its own. With regard to the resources of the credit supervision, there has been a significant increase, and it should only be lacking. I can take a couple of budgets here - the aged budget for the credit supervision in 2001 was about. 108 million. DKK and in 2008 SEK 209 million. kr. The number of employees has increased by 165. I'm not saying that this is necessarily enough, and it's very difficult to lean back and say that everything is always enough, but I actually think it has reasonably good resources. And not least, I'm glad that they're able to maintain high levels of credit supervision, because the labour market is now very demanding in terms of much of their skills, and it's a big challenge to hold on to it. But of course we have to follow that, and also the bottleneck that we see elsewhere in the area of financial crime, namely ecocrime, because here there is an interaction between detecting illegalities, causing reactions, and also being able to follow in the most serious cases. So ask the representative, Mr. Sanner, if it's possible to get a closer look at the Terra case, for example. in the context of the credit notification. I would like to take a closer look at whether there is anything that could have been done in that case at an earlier stage. But first of all, we need to have a supervision that is such that you go into individual matters. You can never expect to be in the forefront in that way that you can control all the products, and in the case of the type of products that were sold from Terra to these municipalities, it should have called both those who sold, who informed too badly - it has been shown - and those who bought and who have not overlooked what they actually did. When it comes to the issue of the credit supervision to have a freer position, I have to say that I am very pleased with how the cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Credit Supervision is now. I don't know what we should achieve by taking that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e322	Initially, I would like to say that it is positive that the Commissioner for Finance in the Right is so focused on whether there are sufficient resources and good practices in the Credit Authority and other supervisory bodies to enforce the legislation, so that the financial market can function in a healthy and good way. It's not always there's been the same focus on this in all the camps. Some parties here in Stortinget have had strong views that different markets should govern themselves as much as possible and that public authorities should keep their fingers out of the barrel. So over to the main, and that's the development of the financial market. There is no doubt that there has been a development in which markets have had a significant increase in size and not least in complexity, both nationally and internationally. At the same time, the importance of the financial market for real economic development has increased significantly. In November 2007 there was a happy case, in my opinion, by the entry into force of a new Securities Trading Act. The new law clarifies the obligations of the investment advisor towards the investor. Thereafter, the advisers and their activities will be subject to supervision by the credit supervision. An important element of the new legislation is stricter requirements for the independence of advisers. In my opinion, the distinction between advice and sales is crucial. It hasn't been good enough so far. As I see it, the banks have to assume a large part of the responsibility for so many ordinary people without special financial skills have lost money. A side effect of what has happened is that people lose confidence in the banks in general. It is of course important that, in addition to the legislative need to be in place and that financial institutions act in an ethically responsible manner, credit supervision is able to carry out its functions as regulator and supervisor in a good way. As far as I can judge, there is nothing to delay in the way in which the Credit Authority has carried out its tasks. In my opinion, the Credit Authority is doing complex tasks in a good way. When the Terra case became known on 31 October 2007, the Credit Authority started investigations on the same day and asked for explanations. In my opinion, they were fast in the lab when the accident was first out. We all know the continuation with notice of withdrawal of authorisation and the company's own request for a tender. Furthermore, I think there is reason to commend the Credit Authority for investigating in the cold water of the Terra case the supply of so-called composite products in 15 banks. Supervision is not graceful in its conclusion. The products are marketed as ‘guaranteed savings products’ where customers could not lose the money they put in. It turns out that a very high proportion of those who have bought structured products, mainly small savers, have financed the purchases on the recommendation of bank sellers. Many people today are in a desperate situation. It shows the example to which the Council of State referred, whether the bus driver and the family father had borrowed 700,000 kroner at the recommendation of the bank and who is now sitting in it to the top of their ears. This is unethical, in my opinion. When the CRA announced the revocation of the Terra Securities concession, the reasons were serious breaches of the CRA rules. Such infringements are difficult to guard against 100 pst. against. However, what the authorities can do is to ensure that the necessary legislation and regulations are in place and that there are follow-up and control systems. In today's business, 21 January, to which several have referred, we can read that the number of insider dealing was doubled in 2007, and that the credit supervision and e.g. Ecocrime has to drop such cases because of limited resources. Some of this challenge is that credit supervision competes with investment firms for professionals. In other words, although there are job homes available, it is not always as easy to fill the jobs. There is a need to monitor developments in this area. Then I would like to stress what the Council of State said: there has been a significant increase in the number of posts from 2001 to the end of 2007, and the budget has increased by over 100 million. kr in the same period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e345	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing this very important matter, although I might be a little surprised at the angle and some of the recommendations. There is little doubt that a global market economy in constant development requires supervisory arrangements that are also in constant development. However, in the mandate of the Credit Authority, I would assume that this should be covered. It says, among other things: in the case of banks, finance and insurance: «The supervision of the banking and financial sectors shall ensure soundness, risk awareness, governance and control of undertakings and contribute to financial stability and functioning of markets.» So initially it was to be within the mandate of the Credit Authority. So I'll go back to this with growth and prosperity, as the interpellant was inside. There is no doubt that the free market, with very few regulations, has led hundreds, yes millions, of people out of poverty worldwide. The truth is that Norway too has come out of poverty through trade and maritime transport. It's getting a little navigable all the time to be concerned with ever new restrictions, when you see what happiness, historically, the market economy has been for hundreds, yes millions of people. Of course, there are also places where it has not been equally successful, but often not because of the market economy, either because of regulation and planned economy. The forwarding party is concerned that market participants should have equal information at the same time. But it's actually allowed to make unreasonable choices. It's okay to be stupid. And you're allowed to lose money. If you make regulations that make losing money almost impossible, you lose risk, too, and you lose innovation. No one has earned, even if it seems very reasonable for those who might lose money. But then there's a difference -- when we talk about Terra Securities and the investments the municipalities made. There were some people who used to spend money on other people's money. And it's clear that we have to have clear rules. The investments made by these municipalities were also a violation of the law. You cannot have the same rules for the use of your own money as for the use of other people's money. Perhaps the Minister of Finance should be aware of the State Pension Fund - abroad. I was a little surprised by the recommendations that came from the interpellant, because it was about the need for more resources. It's rarely medicine for the Right. At the latest in today's business today, the interpellant was out and thought it was enough to slim down the public sector and spend the money more efficiently - it would solve most of it. But here he says that the Credit Authority needs more money. In this area, the interpellant believes that there is a need for more money. The Progress Party is not convinced that more money will solve some of the challenges that the interpellant was facing. We think the notion that the credit supervision should possibly have a more freer role is positive, and we in the Progress Party will support it for the time being. So to the Nordic welfare model and the unimpeded boast of it by the Minister of Finance. It may go straight home at SV’s national meeting, but not in the main hall. It is in Norway today 25 p.m. of all persons aged between 18 and 67 who live on social security. I'm not talking about pensioners, but about those between 18 and 67 years old, that 25 pst. of which social security is the principal income. We have a school that conveys very little knowledge, actually some of the worst in the OECD area. We have a downturn in the public sector in almost all areas. Buildings are in decline, and the care of the elderly is nothing special to boast of. In parallel with this, we have incomes that everyone else can envy -- we've won in the North Sea lottery -- but we can't manage in a better way than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e365	It is gratifying to note that everyone agrees that a well-functioning and, to the extent also, liberalised market economy is essential for our welfare society. But that it is well functioning and works as it should is not something that comes as manna from heaven. Like everything else, it must be cultivated through further development and continuous improvement, not least by the institutional framework conditions. Therefore, it is important that the Storting, as legislator, conducts discussions on how the market economy can be implemented, developed and continued in our society in a globalised age - not primarily, and only, through legislative regulation, perhaps as much in the long term through deregulation - and how we enable the control institutions to prevent violations of the rules we already have and assess how they work. The reason for this is obvious: the whole of today's welfare society, and even more so the future development of well-being, rests on the need for the market economy to function. That is why the control mechanisms must also work and create awareness and security for all actors and for individuals when we make our own choices. Therefore, driving rules are needed to demonstrate that the large community is willing to punish those who do not comply with the rules. It's quite possible to drive for 250 km an hour on modern motorways, even in this country, but there's almost no one doing it, because the adverse effects are obvious, the risk of being revealed large and the penalties very strict. It probably has to be that way on the financial highways that are gradually taking place, and perhaps the most on the shortcuts. So I would like to bring into the debate the competitive element of the modern market economy. Of course, free competition is a prerequisite for the market economy. However, it is also such that maximum open competition, wherever possible, and without unnecessary obstacles from the authorities, makes an important contribution to the internal control between market players and to self-justice. It is therefore important at every opportunity to ensure that competitiveness is broadened and improved, not restricted and worse, which must be allowed to say that we have seen examples under this government. It is that dominant market power, perhaps in today's society dominant knowledge power and monopolies, could typically be exploited at the expense of consumers. Then I am talking not only about the Credit Authority but also about the Competition Authority, which is an important player. Competition and transparency in the market economy ensure the freedom of choice of consumers, ensure optimal price levels and have the ability to ensure the safety of products and services, in this case economic services, and to trust without excessive in-depth knowledge. For this reason, political signals are also important in terms of competition for actors’ attitudes to the rules set out by society. The political signals on the functioning of the Competition Surveillance Authority in given situations have been, with respect, reported slightly winged. So you could say, what does this have to do in the financial committee's discussion about this? I think you have to look a little bit wider on it. It is also the case that it is the Minister of Finance and a Council of State from the same party that condemns the management of both departments that are going to stand in the way to defend our market economy system and ensure that it will continue to work in the future. It is challenging in any case, and I think that with the historical approach of the Minister of Finance to liberalised, globalised market economy, it is useful that all forces push on, as we do in this debate today. I also believe that the Stortinget itself, as legislator, should maintain good contact with the supervisory authorities through the committees. It does, but my experience from this house is that it may not be done sufficiently. With the rapid development we see, I think it is useful for the legislators to have close and good contact that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e378	In the interview, the representative ask Sanner what can be done to develop the credit supervision and other supervision so that they can discharge their responsibilities in a globalised economy. Some would argue that when the Right-Representatives open up more control measures, it takes a lot to ensure that the Christian People's Party does not give its support to it, and I can basically agree on a lot of the premises that Sanner has given, as well as on the question. There may also be some fear in the interpellation, seen from Sanner's point of view, that the Terra scandal in the wake of the US subprime crisis will lead to attempts to regulate capital movements. The free movement of capital is one of the fundamental freedoms which, according to both theory and practical experience, strengthens the prosperity of society. However, the functioning of the market economy requires that all actors have the same, and complete, information and are able to make rational decisions for their own benefit. If there's something the Terra scandal has shown us, it's that all the information about complicated financial products is not necessarily readily available, and that some people who buy such products have done it more in good faith than based on rational considerations. The new Securities Trading Act imposes stricter information and documentation requirements on the sale of securities. The sellers are responsible for assessing for themselves whether customers actually have the experience and competence necessary to invest in the type of paper. The credit supervision is responsible in its supervision to ensure that the financial institutions for which they are responsible for supervision actually put this into system. It cannot be satisfied that the enterprises only need to present a form where the seller has crossed a ‘yes’ on whether the customer has sufficient competence to purchase a product. Such an assessment obligation becomes meaningless unless the institution can at the same time demonstrate the basis for its assessment. I can imagine hearing if the Minister of Finance agrees with such a premise. A seller who receives fees depending on how much he sells will hardly be unwarranted in assessing whether the customer is able to buy the product. I trust that the credit supervision on its oversight visits can identify whether these assessments are real or whether it is a purely cross-check exercise. I also assume - I've been here before - that the supervision says something to the Department and the Council of State about the resource needs you have to take this new task seriously, and, of course, also informs you of the possible consequences for the supervisory fees. Another fundamental challenge is present in a globalised economy. We can have as competent national supervision as we want, but they will in any case have limited action when the institutions are cross-border. The credit supervision does not supervise branches in Norway of foreign investment firms. Therefore, what is happening in the international arena for the monitoring of financial institutions is crucial. Last week, the Council of State was in place in Davos to have a dialogue on challenges in the world economy. At that meeting, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown, noted that we now had to update the institutions that are monitoring global financial markets and, in particular, the IMF. A more efficient global warning system could perhaps give increased attention at an earlier stage to the imbalances that subprime lending in the United States built up and that we have seen in many other markets. I think Gordon Brown has an important point. Free capital movements are a good thing, but there is no law of nature that says that everyone serves on it. If consumers, municipalities and others are to enjoy it as much as resource-intensive global financial institutions, the weak parties - those with the least information - must be protected more effectively. And more effective protection can preferably only be ensured through supranational institutions that can somehow match the network with the global financial institutions. The alternative is worse. The alternative to stronger supranational authorities can quickly become more protectionism, and I think we all would lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e395	Competition requires public law to facilitate fair competition and follow-up public institutions. Otherwise, there will be major socio-economic losses and monopolies in the industry - acutely worded: competition is a state product. The fact is that we don't have any common laws in the world for investment firms, but the financial market crisis is becoming more and more global as a result of deregulation and international political fashion - as we had from the International Monetary Fund, with free flow from the early 1980s, where full transparency and early warning would be the instruments, which have proved to be insufficient. An article in Dagbladet on 26 November last year, by Professor Erik Reinert, was entitled ‘Terra as a System Failure’. I want to quote a few paragraphs: «At a seminar on the financial turmoil held in August this year by the Republican think tank on Sørmarka, American economist Jan Kregel warned the Assembly that the role of banking in capitalism had changed qualitatively. In the past, the main role of banks was to assess risk, and it was a function the banking system has performed for a long time satisfactorily. In practice, it was demonstrated that new regulatory regimes have deprived the banking system of much of its old function as risk assessors and managers of banks and brokerage houses until now to specialise in putting together ‘packages’ of financial instruments and to earn their money to sell them, while not even performing their traditional role as risk assessors or as risk assessors themselves. These risky packages are not part of the asset side of banks' accounts after they have been sold. The risk goes to credulous buyers, while the banks are left with secure receipts from commissions and management fees. During the financial crisis in Asia in 1997, the United Nations system was called from its position as a professor at the University of Bologna to help resolve the crisis. The Kregel pointed out in Oslo that what is now flooding into the Norwegian press that the Terra scandal is really a basic system failure - caused by the lifting of old regulations [[Glass-Seagal Act of 1933]] The debate on system failure is much more important than the focus on human failure. We are now seeing major falls in international financial markets with major consequences also in Norway. Much of international development has its basis in the United States, where countries and people live above capacity. It is also those who believe that similar is the case here in the country. Several people have been waiting for the downturn internationally, including the management of the credit supervision. The descent came later than expected, and it was more complex and went at a greater speed. That's why it was easier to make mistakes. The boldest or most professionally weakest are first hit. Terra Securities has been mentioned a lot. Some who are not mentioned, and not mentioned here today, are export finance, which in the stock exchange announcement of 18 January this year was in favour of a stock issue of SEK 1.2 billion due to unrealised price losses in its liquidity portfolio. In the case of liability, there is a shared responsibility according to the views of the Centre Party. The State has a responsibility, among other things: by letter from the Ministry of Local Affairs of 20 September 2002, where the Ministry of Local Government approves that the sale of concession power is used for financial investment. The auditor said this is contrary to municipal law, because this must be seen as a municipal loan used to invest in financial papers. Secondly, it is quite obvious that the municipalities have a responsibility. There is an undisputed clear responsibility seen in the light of their decisions. Terra Securities has a responsibility. We made it clear that the credit supervision revoked the concession. As regards measures directly linked to Terra-saka for the local government sector, it should be clarified that they cannot borrow or capitalise future income and place these values in financial papers. As regards the legislation, the MiFID Directive was launched in Norwegian practice in November 2007. What is central is that we get a clarification of the different roles, as I mentioned in my article on 29 May 2007, among other things. the mixture of roles between counselling and sales. As far as credit supervision is concerned, there is no money. There is strong growth on the money side, and it is largely paid for by the control objects. The ambitions must be to be ahead of evolution. There is a strong competence in the institutions, and it is gratifying that some private seniors choose to enter into it. It has also been shown that there are severe responses to crime. That's good. I would like to end by saying that the credit authority cannot guess the King's hares. It would be an enormously inefficient public bureaucracy if we were to say that we were to ensure that everything is done through the concrete measures in a good way. It must be regulated in a more basic and systematic manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e423	Over the 1980s and 1990s, culminated in Norway's conclusion of the EEA Agreement, we have been freed from capital markets. The aim of this has been to ensure that it would be cheaper to raise money, borrow money and gain access to capital. It's happened. It's true that this has led to cheaper capital. The question is what price and what costs are involved. On the trip of the Financial Committee to the United States, which I believe very many here in the Chamber were present, where we visited several of the institutions responsible for international capital flows and for parts of American control, one thing became clear - at least to me, but my opinion is that this also happened to several of the members of the Financial Committee - namely that by the cohesive flow of capital, the interweaving of the various capital markets in the world and the interweaving of the world economy, we have it since getting cheaper access to capital, but then it obviously has another side to increase the risk of the international financial system. The round in which we are now -- which we strictly do not know where the turmoil in the world's capital markets ends now -- shows us very clearly that we can have the best credit supervision in the world, but then it doesn't matter. Because when capital markets are as intertwined as they are, then, one weak credit supervision or relationship such as this will be. the sub-prime loans in the United States could have a decisive impact on and influence on the functioning of our capital markets. The cost of borrowing internally between banks rose dramatically due to the sub-prime loans that were uncovered during the spring harvest. So it has a lot of influence on us, even if we could have done everything right. In addition, there are two things that have happened. We have seen that, in general, across the EU, we have received lower taxes, i.e. a decrease in the level of taxation in very many countries. The obvious reason for this is that at the moment of the free flow of capital, capital will also apply to the country where the profits are taxed the lowest, which means that you get tax competition in a downward spiral. In addition, it seems that in parallel to this, we have developed the differences in the return on labour and capital, where an increasing proportion of the values generated goes to those who raise their income from capital. It is clear that this will lead to increased differences. Based on a new classical understanding of the economy, we can say that it can create greater well-being. But everyone knows that if we just add the little premise that implies a falling value, a falling benefit, of money, a more fair distribution of money will be for the benefit of a society. On the contrary, we're going to have an opposite trend when the differences increase. In other words, even though we can see that we're going to get cheaper capital from this, we're going to have some negative side effects at the same time. I just want to point to two aspects that have been mentioned here. One was raised by the Right, which considers that increased competition would lead to improved internal justice between the actors. It is a claim for which, in my opinion, there is no reasonable evidence. At the moment when you have a rough competition, where it's just worth doing the limits of what's reasonable to do to get through with exactly their loans, the internal justice system is going to be low: it's kind of worth moving all the way around the regulatory boundary. This allows one to win the competition. It's not certain that borrowing money, throwing money after people, is illegal, but it's not necessarily a good idea if those who take up the loans, in the next round are at risk of standing without houses and homes, as we now see. Jan Tore Sanner has been one of the strongest people who have said that it's a problem that we don't now encourage people to save more. He should probably be concerned that the banks and credit institutions have borrowed incredibly much more money in recent years -- it's been a huge growth -- and it's for someone who might not be able to serve these loans. I would say -- just as a last sentence -- that I think it is good that the Minister of Finance announces that there will be a review of or at least a discussion about this in the credit message, and that I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e443	The representative Sanner has drawn up a theme that is generally important in his interpellation. I'll give him credit for that. On the other hand, I note that the Progress Party is dissatisfied with the interpellant. Mr. Sanner's tribute to the market economy is not unhindered, and he is too positive when it comes to using government funds for supervisory purposes. My clear starting point is that there should be good control procedures and clearly defined rules for the functioning of the market economy and for making a good contribution to the welfare development of our society. For this reason, we need to ask the control question from time to time: do the procedures work as they should? In this context, we need to put the search light on the financial industry in our country and, of course, also on the government bodies that are to carry out control and monitoring tasks in this field. Fortunately, the Norwegian economy has a time of solid development. On the international level, the image is more complex. Especially in the United States, which is an important locomotive in the international economy, security has spread over the last year. At this time, we have first and foremost experienced this by the sharp fall of the stock exchange. The problem in the United States is largely due to the fact that banks have ‘pusha’ mortgages on people who really cannot afford to handle the loan, so-called ‘subprime’ mortgages. Portfolios of such loans are sold to other financial institutions, and in this way the problems have spread. Banks have been held back from borrowing each other's money, and the board of directors have been able to provide liquidity so that the interbank market would not dry up completely. For several years we have had good growth in the Norwegian economy. Oslo Børs has almost had adventurous growth. Housing prices have risen sharply. Since the new year, however, the value of the stock exchange has fallen by approx. 20 pst. For some actors, this has had major negative consequences. Here, financial institutions have a considerable responsibility. Norwegian banks have now had low losses and few failed loans. Nevertheless, there is every reason to call for responsible detention also in the Norwegian banking system. Banks should now be cautious about lending, including loans for housing purposes. Credit assessments must be sober and realistic. Here, the financial industries and the governance have a common task of ensuring the proper functioning of financial markets. In addition to good regulation, the financial industry itself must work to maintain a high ethical standard. It's about more than staying within the current law. I want to underline the importance of a regulatory framework to ensure good soundness in our financial institutions. It is a fact that unrest in financial markets can easily have a major impact on the social economy. In this context, it is very important to have sound supervision. A central task of credit supervision is to supervise institutions and markets and to contribute to financial stability. This objective is based on important socio-economic considerations. Taking care of the interests of both consumers and investors will be an important task. The Banking Supervision Act states that credit supervision is to ensure the defence of the functioning of financial institutions. The new Securities Trading Act, which began to operate barely three months ago, allows the Ministry of Finance to delegate tasks to the Credit Supervision. I'm going to believe that that role will be an important part of their work in the future. Investment advisors are now placed under the supervision of the credit supervision. It is a major and important step forward, not least because supervision has a right of sanction if there is a crime. So we've taken new and necessary action on a later basis to strengthen our consumers' rights. Credit supervision has a major and important role in our society. The workspace has been expanded, as mentioned. In addition, the budgetary work has been reflected in this period. The number of additions has been substantially expanded, precisely in order to allow for the important work of supervision to be carried out. Finally, I would like to commend the Credit Authority for its efforts, not least for the effective management that was shown in the case of Terra Securities ASA last fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e469	Winston Churchill said something like democracy is the worst governance system except for all the other governance systems that have been tried. Let me say the same about the market economy: the market economy is probably the worst economic system with the exception of all other economic systems that have been tried. I have no problem hailing the market economy for its positive sides. At the same time, I do not have any problems with drawing up a number of negative aspects, defects and defects. It is the market economy through an efficient use of resources that has made Norway richer. We have 0.1 pst. by the population of the world. At the same time, we have 1.2 pst. of world exports and 1,1 pst. imports of the world. Our wealth is built on the principles of the market economy. We started through trade in wood, further developed through shipping and industry, and now most recently through oil and gas. We can pull out countries like India and China. It was only after their entry into the market economy and into international trade that hundreds of millions of people were brought out of permanent poverty. It's a shame to see that so many of the red-greens want to use their speaking time to draw out the negative aspects of the market economy. We see how imperfect the system in the United States can be, through faults and shortcomings in terms of both law, control systems and reactions, but that doesn't mean it's the market economy that's wrong. It just means that it is the former that has not worked as intended. I want to say that our prosperity, and therefore our future well-being, was built and built now through our active entry into the market economy for a long time. A well-functioning market economy has strong and clear control mechanisms and sanctioned institutions. The interpellant raises an important question when he asks how we further develop the market economy through control mechanisms and institutions in Norway in order to have free capital movements in a fair competitive situation. The central role of the IMF has been highlighted internationally. I fully agree with that. In Norway, credit supervision and ecocrim, but also the Tax Directorate, play these key roles. In order for us in Norway to have actors that do not exploit the mistakes, shortcomings and loopholes of the market economy, it is necessary that these three institutions are independent and have sufficient resources, including human resources. The laws must be clear, the penalties must be known and dissuasive, and the investigation of possible offences must be a matter of course, the reactions of offences as well. I had hoped that this debate would be a debate on how we are just using the human resources that are in the Credit Authority, but also in Ecocrim and the Tax Directorate, to further develop the market economy, to realise, also for the future, that the market economy ensures Norwegian well-being and international well-being. Unfortunately, this debate seems to have progressed on a siding, but I hope that the interpellant, through his last intervention, will be able to get the debate back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e484	Then the interpellant Jan Tore Sanner has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes to get back on the lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e487	Let me limit myself to a few comments. Firstly, I would like to thank you for an interesting debate, which has a fundamental aspect of how the free and open market economy should be, but also a practical aspect of how to ensure appropriate regulation and good prudential arrangements. Let me briefly comment on Mr Tybring-Gjedde's surprise that the Right is a supporter of strengthening the supervisory systems. That shouldn't surprise him. The right is a supporter of strengthening the judiciary. We have called on several occasions to strengthen the Data Protection Authority and the Competition Authority. I believe that there is every reason to raise the question of strengthening the credit supervision. I note, however, that the budgetary screw has turned itself on in the government parties, and that more is now being done to get more out of the resources at your disposal. That's a sensible approach, but I think in the liberalised and globalised economy we have, that should also raise that question. I registered that the representative Holmås stressed that it does not help how brilliantly supervised we are in Norway, if it fails internationally. Well, that's an interesting point of view that I think underscores the importance of a further discussion on supranationality and international institutions, which I believe also belongs in this discussion. Finally, I registered that the representative Holmås has noticed the same thing as I have, namely that the Minister of Finance opens up a review of whether a better supervision at an earlier time could have contributed to a restriction, or whether we could have avoided this scandal associated with Terra Securities. I hope that we get such a review, and that it can be presented, for example. in the context of the credit notification. It would provide us with a better starting point for moving this discussion forward and perhaps trying to draw some conclusions on how to improve supervision for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e500	There are a few things from the debate that I think it's worth noting. I think perhaps it was the representative of the Syversen who first addressed it: how is the international debate on how to bring about an international globalised economy? It spreads roughly in fan formation, as this debate has done if we bring with us the representative Tybring-Gjedde. Of course, there are some people in the debate who say that in a market economy in which exposure to risk is exposed, it must also be assumed that problems and market failures will arise on a regular basis, which will mean that something is going to end, and this must be done in order for the market economy to function. This is part of the speeches in the global debate on this - very American-inspired indeed - and I don't think very many in the Norwegian debate will agree that this is a way of dealing with an economic system. On the other hand, those who are now asking for more attention to be paid to the international institutions in order to gain stronger control and a better follow-up. I also think that for Norway it is a very interesting and important debate to participate in. We've been on many of these initiatives ourselves, and if everyone had introduced what is now Basel II, probably this sub-prime crisis could not have arisen. I notice that Tybring-Gjedde is on the very other wing here, and I have to say I'm very disagreeable. Of course, it's okay to do something stupid, but we can't have responsible financial institutions that are allowed to give people so bad information that ordinary people, that is. People most, they don't have an overview and they're tricked into doing something stupid. It's not gonna work. That is why we need regulation and action in this area. I expect that we will come back to what kind of lessons you can draw from the Terra case in other contexts, but I would like to remind you that the Credit Authority went very quickly into this matter and in the light of the law that existed before what we have now been given, said that this is contrary to good business practice and announced a withdrawal of their concession. And it is quite doubtful whether these conditions would have been revealed through normal supervision, without a prior indication that an entity was engaged in improper marketing of such a type of product. We have to assume that there are random checks that are what we want to be rusted with in these kinds of things in the future. So, of course, the question is how often are they going to be, how many times a can go in with them. The fact that there will be a lot of publicity around them, and that they will have consequences, that the credit supervision is in place and reacts in such a way that all other market players see that we do not see this between our fingers, and that it seems preventative to all other actors, has an enormous significance. I would like to thank you for an exciting and important debate in these turbulent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e517	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e523	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e545	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-28.ana.ud1025e609	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
