ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e57	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odelstingen meetings next week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik is considered unanimously elected president for the next week’s meetings at Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e73	The first speaker is Mr Haga, who has the floor instead of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e76	In Stortinget earlier today, we discussed Norwegian accession to the Convention on Class Ammunition. There is full agreement on the signing of the Convention, and we are choosing to refer to this morning's debate at this item on the agenda. However, I would like to stress the importance of the Convention. It will contribute to less civil suffering during war, and humanitarian law has introduced a new and important instrument. Norway has played a significant role in the development of the Convention, and I know that I have everyone with me in commending everyone who has contributed to the process, in the political environment, in various civil services and also actors in civil society. It is a pleasure to take up the committee's recommendation on the law implementing the Convention on Class Ammunition in Ot.prp. No 7th@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e83	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 49]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e99	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e108	In general, the holiday law works well the way it is. However, some changes need to be made, including: as a result of a judgment of the European Court of Justice concerning the interpretation of the Working Time Directive. The position in the case shows that there is some disagreement in the Committee on the points of financial compensation for, and transfer of, the absence of completed leave, and the regulation of the early termination of leave. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal for restrictions on the right to obtain an economically compensated holiday in the absence of closure. Today's law provides for such compensation, which may lead to workers not being able to complete their holiday, but instead to receive financial compensation. Such practice is not in line with the requirements of the Working Time Directive for the completion of four weeks’ leave. The majority of the Committee takes the view that a reduction in the right to provide financial compensation instead of holiday termination would create a greater incentive to comply with the law’s requirement to wind up the statutory holiday. However, there is still an opportunity to replace holiday settlements with financial compensation, but in those cases where the need for the rest of the holiday entails is assumed to be less, such as sick leave or parental leave. Transfer of completed holiday may involve a loss of well-being. It has not been given that the longer vacation in the following year is an adequate compensation for the lack of closure of the holiday. It is therefore important that we here get a reference to the compensation rule in Section 14 in cases where the employer is to blame for the fact that the holiday is not terminated. The majority assume that no such restrictions must be imposed on the transfer of vacations that leave is lost to the employee. Therefore, it is considered that it should be possible not to transfer completed holiday to the next year. At the same time, the majority emphasise the obligation of both the employer and the employee to ensure that holiday breaks are completed. It is now possible to agree on an advance holiday and to transfer up to 12 days of holiday to the next year of the holiday. The majority of the Committee supports limiting the possibility of concluding an advance holiday to 12 days and maintaining a 12-day limitation on the agreed transfer of leave. These provisions shall contribute to the effective completion of leave for workers during the holiday year. The early retirement of unearned leave could lead to the subsequent long working period without holiday settlement, which is perceived as just as undesirable as a long period of work before leave is completed. In addition, the Committee supports the proposed amendments. I expect the Progress Party itself to take up its proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e125	In two areas, the Progress Party disagrees with the majority of the Committee. One goes on financial compensation for the lack of completed holiday. As we can see, the amendment of the law now being made, which in many ways is an implementation following a decision of the European Court of Justice, implies a general restriction on current legislation. We are critical of the type of interception and believe that it can also give rise to some problems in the cases you have, for example. sickness or leave. Where you have not taken a full vacation, we believe that you should have had the opportunity to compensate for your salary to a much greater extent. I also think that in many ways this is a small intervention in relation to the freedom that individual countries can have to decide for themselves such things, and the freedom that individual employers and employees have to decide the changes they want, and the adjustments they want in relation to these kinds of matters. The second moment we're opposed to, goes on with the transfer of vacations. As stated in the law, you can transfer twelve days to the next year. The Progress Party has wanted to challenge the EFTA Court in these two areas, because I understand this from the letter of reply from the Council of State to questions from the representative Kenneth Svendsen that if this legislation is not implemented in Norwegian law, the case will go further, possibly to the EFTA Court, which will take the final decision as to whether or not to implement the Directive. I am sure the Council of State can explain whether I have understood this error. At least I believe that was what was stated in that letter. In that case, we also believe that the EFTA Court could have been challenged, because I believe that moving over just 12 days could also be a restriction in relation to the possibility, freedom, individual employee and employer have of having regulated vacations. We see that many people want to save up vacations for the next year in order to get a much longer vacation. We see that society has become much more globalized, people travel more, people travel longer, and people want more flexibility and freedom to spend their holidays in a completely different way. That's why I think it's unfortunate that we now have a system that limits this opportunity and this freedom. I believe that in many ways it is a strong narrowing of the freedom of workers. With this, I address the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e138	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e141	A review of holiday and working time legislation is positive and most of the proposals are supported by the Right. The intention of the Holiday Act to terminate statutory leave during the calendar year, which obliges both the employee and the employer, is positive. Not completed leave is considered to be a deviation from the original intention of the holiday law. However, the holiday law should not be tightened to such an extent that it becomes difficult to terminate the unvaccinated holiday to be transferred primarily. The right-wing opinion is that the free contract law between the employee and the employer is the basic premise for employment. It is a statutory holiday transfer which, in the worst case, can contribute to a negative impact on company framework conditions. I would like to ask rhetorical why an employee who wants to join in and work a little extra, might get his own company safe and well and thus also his own job, and is given that opportunity by the employer, is nevertheless stopped by the law. The total intensity of the government's European work can also be asked when we see in this legislative proposal that a European directive alerts us to the need to change legislative texts. I just want to say briefly, without allowing this to degenerate into any European debate, that once again we see the consequences of an alienation, of our standing alone, and soon perhaps even more alone, and in the worst case, we have to resort to the EFTA Court as our only instrument to influence. We need a completely different relationship with the EU, but before that happens, we need a completely different Norwegian European policy. It's added to the page. Then I just want to say that the Right thus supports most of the law, but goes against the changes that relate to financial compensation for unused holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e152	From SV's point of view, we end up with what the rapporteur said in his statement. In addition, I need to stress that the reason for taking leave every year is important health and welfare aspects. This is a reason why you have fought longer holidays, and it is assumed that it has an effect both in terms of keeping sick leave down and in terms of keeping a working life out that you have good holiday arrangements, and that you ensure that they apply to everyone. That is why we believe that the intentions put in place by this directive are good. I notice with a little humor that it is right in this room that sort of clings to the exceptions and the EFTA Court and appeals to it in this case. I think it might have been a strange maneuver. The fact that the freedom of contract is set in relation to being able to limit the employee’s right to four weeks’ leave in a year above the EEA Agreement in this case, I have to say that I am surprised, but it is well that some matters are more important than others. I notice that the Right believes that this is such an important matter that the EEA Agreement is to be put a little ‘in play’, to put it ironically.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e159	The attitude of the Labour and Social Committee on the changes to the holiday law and some other laws can be summarised briefly as follows: The Government Parties and the Christian People's Party agree on everything in this matter. The vast majority of committees – all without the Progress Party – agree on most of it. And the entire committee – including the Advance Party – agrees on a lot. One point on which there is the most disagreement is the right to financial compensation for unvaccinated holidays, rather than the transfer of holidays to the next year of holidays. This difference can be summed up literally by the fact that the current holiday law states: ‘A holiday allowance for leave which has not been completed during the year of the holiday or which has been transferred to the following year of the holiday shall be paid the first normal day of payment after the end of the year of the holiday.’;» And the proposal for a new law says: «Holiday pay for holidays which, because of the circumstances referred to in Section 9, paragraph 1 and 2 have not been completed during the year of the holiday or transferred to the following year of the holiday, the first normal day of payment shall be paid after the end of the year of the holiday.» The conditions referred to here are leave, sickness or work struggle. The background to the change is, as you know, an assessment of the flexibility of the Working Time Directive. After all, there is another EU directive that is hot during these days and where two of the government parties have notified it. In this case, it turned its head a little bit. The most intense followers of the Working Time Directive and the adaptation of the holiday law to the intention of this Directive are the opponents of the EU and services directives on the government side. And usually the EU-friendly Right is willing to take a chance that the EFTA Court may have to deal with a matter that Norway does not comply with the Directive. Even the Christian People's Party chooses to take as its starting point the main intention of the holiday law, and it is in fact that holidays are to be held for the sake of the well-being of the workers. Of course, there must be exceptional provisions when there are good reasons to deviate from the general rule. However, if they become general, they may become more than exceptional provisions, then they may become provisions to ensure that the provisions are circumvented. The possibility of obtaining financial compensation for unvaccinated leave when this is due to sickness and leave, in our opinion, ensures the necessary flexibility, without breaking with the main intention. It is a solution that the proposition also argues for is certainly in line with EU law and the Working Time Directive. We do not see any reason to argue with such directives unless it is really essential principles that are at issue, such as: the issue of patents in life or perhaps also issues of the possibility of combating social dumping. We're not going to find that reason here. That is why we support the Government's proposal to amend the law. The Christian People's Party will therefore endorse the proposed legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e184	The government has submitted a proposal for changes to the holiday law. Let me first point out that the holiday law in general is a well-functioning law. That view is shared mainly by the social partners. Nevertheless, the Government has proposed some changes to the holiday law, both in order to ensure even more for employees the need for annual leave and recreation, and in order to comply with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. One of the main changes proposed is a restriction on today’s possibility of replacing holiday with money. The clear starting point of the Holiday Act is that the employer should ensure that the employee is given leave. On the other hand, the employee has an obligation to take a vacation. Limiting the possibility of replacing holidays with money will create greater motivation, both at the employer and at the employee, to ensure that the holiday is actually terminated. In some cases, however, all or part of the statutory holiday is not terminated. Holidays which have not been completed shall therefore be transferred to the following year and shall not be replaced economically. In the view of the Government, the proposed change contributes to the main thrust of the holiday law, namely ensuring annual leave for workers. In order to support the requirement for annual leave, an upper framework is also proposed for the amount of leave that can be taken in advance. Under current legislation, there is no restriction on the employer’s and employee’s access to early retirement. Although the total period of leave of employees over time will be the same when leave is completed on an advance basis, today's rules mean that an employee can leave for a long period without vacation. This may be unfortunate in relation to the needs of employees for a certain annual unemployment and rest. At the same time, the Government understands that some employees want to be able to complete a longer, continuous holiday. It is therefore proposed that an agreement be reached on the early termination of up to 12 days' leave. The government also proposes that the time for the right to extra leave for workers over 60 years of age be changed. Today, the extra week of the holiday is only for those workers who are 60 years old before 1 September of the holiday year. However, there are no good reasons to maintain such a distinction. This is regardless of whether workers who have often had the same duration in their working life. This is also positive from a senior policy perspective. The government therefore proposes to change the current rule so that all employees who become 60 years of age during the holiday year receive one week extra leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e198	I just want to challenge the Council of State on one thing, if I understood him correctly: he says that it is important to have these changes in holiday legislation to ensure recreation and vacation for the employees. However, when a person does not want to take a vacation himself, he/she cannot be refused by an employer under the holiday law. I guess it's going to turn it a little bit on your head. Or is it that the undersigned has completely misunderstood the holiday law, that the employer can override the holiday law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e204	It has always been the idea, regardless of the current amendment, that taking leave is important for the employee, it is a right for the employee and an obligation for the employee. Then there have been different arrangements for transferring vacations, and that will also be the case in the future. So it's always been meant for people to take vacations for health reasons. I would like to remind you that what is proposed here is a limitation to twelve days for the transfer to the next year for the statutory part of the holiday. However, in Norway, most people also have an additional contractual holiday. So one can transfer two weeks of the four weeks, and one day, and then one can also agree to transfer the contractual part of the holiday. This means that there will also be great flexibility in the future, but there will also be an order, because both the employer and the employee have an obligation to leave with the exceptions proposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e213	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 50]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e231	The Committee refers to Ot.prp. No 77 for 2007-2008 About the Law on Changes to the Law on Social Security and the Law on Supplementary Social Security for Short Butide People in Norway. The Committee would point out that proposals for amendments are presented in Law No 28 February 1997. 19 on popular security, the People's Security Act, and Law 29 April 2005 No. 21 on supplementary social benefits for persons with short butide in Norway. The changes result from the social security settlement of the year, produced in St.prp. No 65 for 2007-2008 on social security settled in 2008 and Innst. S. No 305 for 2007-2008. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, supports the proposals of the Ministry and has no further comments. The Progress Party has its own comment and proposal, which I expect the Progress Party itself to present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e242	I just want to refer to the debate we had last week on St.prp. No 74 for 2007-2008, and addresses the proposals we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e247	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e265	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Torfinn Opheim, who is given the floor instead of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e276	The changes in the law of higher education are mainly part of the follow-up to the decision of the Brautaset Committee on the recognition and credit of higher education in Norway. However, the issue we are dealing with today also contains changes to the rules on the use of false diplomas, the exclusion of students, time limits for the promotion of requirements on the grounds of characterisation and the requirement for a stand-off committee when employed by the Director. In addition, the Ministry has proposed adjustments to the provision governing the rights of students who have children during their studies, in the light of requests from the Stortinget. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to continue the distribution of powers between NOKUT and the institutions through the recognition and crediting of other training, where NOCUT takes decisions on general recognition, while the accredited institutions take decisions on professional recognition by equivalence assessment. This means that NOCUT has a clearer role to play in professional recognition. However, NOCUT may not approve or over-examine the professional judgement of institutions. In order to clarify the differences in general and professional recognition, the Committee agrees with the Ministry's assessment that it is appropriate for the rules to be set out in two provisions rather than today, where they are grouped together in one. The time-by-time principle remains the general rule for crediting, but in some cases it will not be fully creditable, as each institution will have to assess the training provided in accordance with its own professional requirements. The increasing presence of the use of illegal documents in the application for admission and recognition in the higher education sector leads to a ban being applied for. This prohibition will apply to the use of false testimonies, false documents and the use of so-called genuine testimonies from non-existing or false institutions for admission and approval. The entire Committee has been in charge of the rights of students who have children during their studies, and is pleased that the Government is following up on this. In particular, it is important that students with children retain their student status during leave. This means that students with children after leaving leave still have the right to receive training from the Loan Fund and have the right to attend the exam. It is also important that pregnant students now have a right to an examination at birth and that this should also apply to fathers. The Ministry proposes changes to the first and second paragraphs of Section 4-8 of the Act, which deal with exclusion based on different circumstances. The first paragraph applies to students who are seriously disruptive and aggressive towards fellow students and employees. For these, the exclusion shall cover all institutions. The student is deprived of the right to attend the examination and a decision on exclusion may be taken for up to one year. The second paragraph applies to students who have created a risk to life or health for patients, clients, kindergarten children, students or others with whom the student has been involved as part of clinical education. These are not excluded from all studies and examinations, only from clinical or practical training studies. Exclusion decisions may be taken for up to three years. These are changes that are undoubtedly needed. The time limit for the submission of a requirement to state the characterisation shall be changed until one week from the publication of the character, if the character is communicated by electronic means. This leads the student to receive a response to the complaint in time to sign up for a new examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e297	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job – I hope someone can pass that on. The changes in the laws we are dealing with today in the Law of Higher Education come mainly as a result of the recommendations of the Brautaset Committee in relation to the recognition and credit of higher education. All institutions have also received the additional text of the Lisbon Convention as an instruction manual for the procedures for the approval process. With a more transparent system and a more consistent practice, it will be easier for, inter alia: high-education immigrants to learn how to validate their education so that they can get to work more quickly. NOW strengthens its role and decides on general approval and acts as an advisory body in relation to professional recognition. The approved institutions take decisions on professional recognition and make use of an equivalence assessment. Essentially, as we heard, the time-for-time principle that is used in crediting. The time-by-time principle can be a challenge in the context of shorter bachelor degrees. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there must be room for approval or credit for studies which do not necessarily cover the same syllabus, as long as the syllabus is at least the same scale and at the same professional level – in the same way that annual units from other Norwegian institutions are currently approved despite quite different syllabus. We have noticed that NOKUT received additional financial resources in 2008 and 2009, among others. to update the so-called GSU list. This list provides the basis for admission of applicants with foreign education and for the recognition of foreign education. We assume that such quality assurance is continuous work, and we also believe that it is important that the business community, which, after all, should receive these students once they have been trained, be actively involved in such a quality assurance process. Unfortunately, since 2006, the GSU list has also been used by the Loan Fund as a basis for the award of training aid for studies abroad. This has become an obstacle for Norwegian students who have wanted to complete their education in a country with a different degree structure than Norway. We have also seen that the number of foreign students has fallen sharply. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we have, among other things: Repeatedly referred to the problems in relation to ‘freshman year’ in the United States. We expect that this problem will be properly addressed and that measures will be proposed to remove such barriers in the announced communication on the internationalisation of education. The Ministry proposes in Section 3-5(6) of the Act that it be opened in order for the institutions to be able to claim a self-costing remuneration related to the assessment of a foreign doctorate. At the same time, a number of derogations are outlined for refugees, asylum seekers, disadvantaged persons and for the country from which the applicant comes. Institutions are also required to assess whether the applicant needs such an assessment as part of an application for work or whether it is a general authorisation application. In principle, the Progress Party, like the UN, the Academics and several other hearing bodies, is sceptical about introducing a payment system in order to get a degree of evaluation. We believe that this violates the principle of free access to education in Norway. We will also in the years to come, depend on highly educated foreign labour, and this could lead to us losing the battle for the best minds. In addition, when we see that such a consideration would have to lead to an additional bureaucracy and a need for documentation, while at the same time getting a discrimination against people based on ethnic origin or class, we believe it is reprehensible to introduce such a payment system. I would therefore ask to vote against Section 3-5, paragraph 6. The new legal text also takes action to prevent the use of false documents and testimonies, such as existing institutions or false institutions. False documents are already regulated and punishable. The new thing is that, in addition to reporting the person trying to fake documents, we get an information obligation between the actors involved in the admission, crediting or recognition of the training, and he will be excluded for up to one year. It's positive. Otherwise, we are positive that the deadline for making a claim to characterisation is changed to one week. We then assume that the students are familiar with their rights, and that they are familiar with when the characters are published, so that they have a real complaint within the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e320	There is a good deal of change in relation to the odelsting proposal in this setting that I have not intended to comment on. But I wanted to comment especially on one point. Then I'm going to start by doing something I haven't done often from this pulpit – I'm going to start by commending a government council from this government. But there is reason to do so, because the way in which the Aasland State Council has followed up the Christian People's Party's proposal on better framework conditions for students who have children in their studies. In this case, she has acted in an exemplary way. I could hope that her colleagues learned a little, because there are actually a lot of good suggestions from the opposition. And taking hold of such a proposal and following it up as the government has done here, there is respect for it. In the vote on the proposal for a representative, a joint committee agreed with the proposers on the need to be better targeted for students who have children while in education. It has now followed up the department, and we are especially pleased that students with children retain their student status during the leave period. This means that students with children after leaving leave still have a real right to education support from the Loan Fund and have the right to go to the exam. In addition, I would like to stress that this will also mean that students have an opportunity to use health services and other well-being goods, which means that they can keep in touch with the place of study. It will be important even during the leave period – I think it is particularly important for a group to return and complete their studies. We are also pleased that a right to a probationary examination for pregnant students in connection with childbirth is now being attached, and that this should also apply to fathers. In addition, I want to praise what is in the budget. And then we'll see if extended leave time is adopted, which I think is going in the right direction for this group. Of course, not all problems are solved even if you get these things in place. We want to go even a little bit further than what we're doing right now. Students are initially a rather vulnerable and economically vulnerable group, and students with children are particularly vulnerable. For many students, the financial framework is the study support, child support and the one-time support from Nav is NOK 33 584. The same principle as for students applies to employees: In the Loan Fund, compensation is granted for lost income or in the case of loss of student funding. But for students, the level of support is low, so that the responsibility for caring becomes demanding for this group. If you stand between your studies and your job or have lost your right to study support, you will only get one-off support and child welfare, which is almost impossible to live from. In addition, it may be difficult to get a job as a pregnant woman, as some employers may be sceptical about taking in a worker who will be on leave in a short time. The law does not allow such discrimination, but unfortunately we have more examples of that in practice. Therefore, we believe that there will be a need to make an overall assessment of the financial situation of students with children. In concrete terms, we believe that the level of one-off aid should be raised. Therefore, we propose to the Government to propose that pregnant women without parental rights related to working life be given better financial conditions by stepping up the single-use aid for pregnant women to 2 G. The issue itself has a gender perspective and a social responsibility. Society often gives conflicting signals in terms of women and pregnancy. Women are expected to be able to take longer and longer education, and there is also a expectation that women should have children – and have them early. At the same time, the schemes add up to the true opposite. More and more women choose to take a good and long education, and fortunately for it. But then, as a society, we need to have support schemes that allow us to be involved in modern development. It's about equal rights to participate, it's about not about sex, and it's also about giving new parents a chance to be safe in the first few years of the child's life. I can promise that I will be a fluke in this field also in the future and promote with it the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e341	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e344	I am pleased to be able to present important legislative changes in the University and Higher Education Act of Odelstinget today. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government stressed the need to improve the opportunities for immigrant inclusion and participation in social and work life by also facilitating and speeding up the recognition of education in other countries. The proposals for amendments to the legal provisions on the recognition and crediting of higher education, as presented here, will contribute to this. These proposals are based on recommendations made by a government-appointed sample, on which several have been involved, namely the Brautaset Committee. The Ministry is also following up the Brautaset Committee's proposals by other means than directly through this bill. I would like to mention the creation of an information centre to provide users with accurate information on admission to studies, as well as information on recognition and crediting of higher education. These may be applicants, supervisors, advisers, employers or others. The information centre shall be added to the national quality body for education, NOCUT. The Ministry has also asked NOKUT to review the so-called GSU list which provides information on requirements for general study competence, additional requirements for applicants with foreign recognition and to improve the letters of approval so as to provide more complete information to the applicant. I hope with these proposals it will make it easier for applicants with foreign education and exams to adapt to Norwegian conditions. Unfortunately, there is an increasing incidence of false diplomas in applications for general recognition of education at NOKUT and in applications for admission to universities and colleges. The Ministry, in cooperation with NOKUT, with the Coordination of Recordings and with the institutions, wishes to address this problem. We therefore propose several changes to the law to counteract the use of false testimonies. It is clear from the bill that the use of false testimonies or other documents is prohibited. The same applies to the use of documents from false institutions. In the light of the input from the university and higher education sectors, we also propose some changes to the rules on the exclusion of students due to undesirable or dangerous behaviour and on time limits for the submission of requirements for the justification of characterisation. The size has previously asked for an overall review of the legislation relating to students who have children during their studies. And I get to sign back to the representative Dagrun Eriksen that she's a good driver for this kind of thing. I now propose that students who have children should retain their status as students during their leave period, and that students receive a right to a probationary examination in connection with their birth. This right shall also apply to fathers. The request for the grant has also been followed up by the proposed government budget for 2009 proposing that the loan fund grant to students be extended from 42 to 44 weeks. I would like to thank the Stortinget and, in particular, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for their excellent work and commitment to this type of issue. These are typical issues in which we in the community need to clean up in order to simplify the regulatory framework. I am convinced that we are now getting a better basis for positive action and a good study environment at our universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e368	Governments have notified that there will be a notification of internationalisation in education. I mentioned in my post that this GSU list has been a barrier to education in countries with a different degree structure than Norway. With regard to the introduction of payments to assess their doctorate degree, both the Swedish Research Association, the Union, the National Association of Students and the Norwegian Student Union say that such a provision could also prevent the internationalisation of Norwegian education. Does the Council of State see that this could be the result, in addition to more bureaucracy and perhaps a little difficult dealing with this in a discriminatory way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e375	To take the last first: the proposal to charge for the assessment of a foreign doctoral degree applies only to an application for recognition where it is not justified by a published position of the institution concerned. The free principle is to include studies as such, and not to allow a free assessment of whether you have the opportunity to demand a higher salary or not. I therefore do not consider this proposal to be contrary to the free principle. If you want an approval free of charge, a general approval by NOKUT on the proposal of § 3-4 will be an alternative. I can also assure the representative, Mr Gåsvatn, that we are now discussing, of course, the challenges raised by the representative in the interview with the Internationalisation Communication. There will be a thorough assessment of them in that message, and it is the right place to continue that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e382	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 52]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e400	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e409	In Herbjørg Wassmo's novel "A glass of milk" we meet 15-year-old Dorte from Lithuania. She doesn't dream about much: about the baker's son, about the father who died too early, and about a little less poverty. Therefore, the offer to travel to Stockholm in secret to work at a restaurant is so tempting. She can hardly believe that she is going into the new future, in an Audi with windows that cannot be opened. She ends up in Norway as a forced prostitute. Gradually, she starts to tear herself in the arm for each customer. Finally, the arm just becomes a striped piece of leather. We don't know how many Dorter there are in Norway today, but we know that every year thousands of women, children and men become victims of human trafficking, and that this trade is increasing. I am pleased that the committee unanimously says that we do not accept this development. This is a serious organized crime. The Committee will combat all forms of trafficking in human beings, both nationally and internationally, and stresses that there are no simple solutions in this fight. Therefore, the instruments must be numerous and wide-ranging. Pro Centret estimates that today there are about 2,500 prostitutes in Norway. In recent years, there has been a trend in the number of Norwegian prostitutes, and today street prostitution is dominated in the large cities by foreign women. Foreign prostitution has become a nationwide phenomenon and is no longer limited to Oslo. Probably many of these women are victims of human trafficking and forced prostitution. The ‘Crossing Borders’ Fafo report concludes that it is very difficult to draw clear boundaries between prostitution and trafficking in human beings where there are backers and hallucinators involved. Women who have chosen to enter prostitution for various reasons may equally be fully exploited and victims of trafficking in human beings. That's why the red-green majority wants to introduce a law ban on the purchase of sexual services. We don't want Norway to be a haven for cynical backers who profit from gross sexual or other exploitation of other people. We know that has happened. In its opinion on the bill, Trendelag refers the State Advocate General to the so-called Estonia case. One perpetrator stated in court that he had assessed several countries. He found Norway most attractive for trafficking in human beings because of the high prices of sexual services, and because there was little attention from the Norwegian authorities. A ban could lead to a normative change in the view on the purchase of sex, lead to a reduction in demand and make it more difficult for backers to establish themselves in Norway. The Stop Group in the Oslo Police Department also believes that a law ban will be important to prevent trafficking in human beings. The fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution is not won by individual measures alone. We need a broad effort, with many instruments, to reduce trafficking in human beings, to help victims of trafficking and to help prostitutes out of a difficult situation. In 2006, the Government presented its action plan against trafficking in human beings, including: includes an extension of the period of reflection for potential victims and a right to free legal aid in the context of the assessment of whether to make a complaint in cases of trafficking in human beings. In the autumn, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has given instructions that victims who have witnessed serious criminal cases of trafficking in human beings should, as a general rule, be granted permanent residence and work permits. This is essential for the victims to dry to report conditions. Prostitutes who want to leave prostitution also need action. It is particularly important to continue and strengthen existing measures, and I very much regret that the Right and the City Council of Progress proposes to cut dramatically in support of the Pro Centre. The consequence of this cut will be that five jobs will have to be lost, the heating room will have to be laid down, and the training and health care are threatened. City Council for Welfare and Social Services, Jøran Kallmyr of the Progress Party, clearly does not share the opinion of his party comrades in the Judicial Committee when he states that the law will remove the street prostitution, and that therefore there is no need for so many outreach services. This is a policy of renovation, and I hope that the representatives of the opposition in this room will take a great deal of distance from it. The red-green majority has added 10 million. extra to measures for prostitutes. This is money that is not to come instead, but in addition to existing measures. We are also positive in establishing close cooperation between the State, the Municipality of Oslo and the Pro Centret – and possibly others – to follow the development of the prostitution environment after the entry into force of the ban. We need to get back to what form this cooperation is going to take. This is no simple matter – there are many who have doubted their position on this matter. But the goal for all of us is to find effective methods of reversing human trafficking and helping those who want it out of prostitution. Therefore, it is important that the law be evaluated after a time. This is how we will be able to measure the impact of the law and also see whether the measures are targeted enough. That's probably how we go a step on the way to combating trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e435	It's Oslo in the fall of 2008, a city that the community calls the congested – flooded by Russian and Bulgarian women in shorts and lacquer boots along Kaia and by Romanian and Albanian women in the area around Akershu's fortress. The most visible are the Nigerian prostitutes, who aggressively offer sex in Norway's parade street, Karl Johan's gate. This is the reality picture this law essentially says something about. Ever since it became known that the government parties would go into criminalising the purchase of sex, we have received many e-mails and telephones from frustrated, worried and rescued girls. There are e-mails that have made a strong impression. The girls are afraid of criminalisation and believe it will lead to a harder and more difficult everyday life for the individual: If there was going to be a criminalization, as a girl, I would get it harder, and the threshold to say anything would be higher. I'm afraid it's getting more dangerous, and fears that we who are subjected to violence will have to live with this in silence. I'm afraid it'll be more dangerous to be a prostitute when it's forbidden to buy sex. I ask you politicians not to look after us girls or our customers, but to take those who practice violence, use coercion – pimps, traffickers and backers. Create a law that hits those who deserve it. These are quotes from e-mails and telephones we have received. The Progress Party believes that it is completely wrong to go off to criminalize the purchase of sexual services. We are afraid that prostitution will not disappear, but only go underground, where it will be more difficult for the police and the aid to have an overview. We are afraid that a ban will only have a refurbishment effect, in the sense that it will remove the visible street prostitution, while the hidden will only increase. This will lead to more power for hallucinants and backers, as the internal market requires a greater degree of organisation than street prostitution. In addition, the threshold for seeking help and health care will be much higher for the prostitutes, and they will guard against reporting abuses. In other words, it might open up more crime. Everyone should basically take the time to read the chronicle in the evening today by one of those who will be affected by the new law. It is not realistic to expect that a ban will lead to the disappearance of prostitution. We can't always criminalize everything we don't like, and I'll go so far as to say that this law is strongly influenced by being a law of renovation. Nor can I fail to point out that the Minister of Justice and his party colleagues in the Committee on Justice are essentially against this whole law, but must introduce it because of decisions in its own party. This may happen in all parties, but it is especially now to record the arguments for criminalisation. ‘Norway shall not become a free zone for hallucinators and traffickers’, said Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. If today's law had been complied with, it wouldn't have been. The Progress Party believes that we must first and foremost distinguish between trafficking in human beings and prostitution. It is only in Norway and Sweden that there are similarities between them in debates. Nor can one compare trafficking in human beings with voluntary prostitution. In fact, we have laws today prohibiting insidious activities and trafficking in human beings. If the government believes that we do not have good enough laws in this area, it should also make stricter laws in this area, instead of making new laws. Persons who exploit other people in such a serious way shall be punished, and those who are exploited by traffickers and insolvents shall be helped. We all agree on that here in this room. But this new law adopted today becomes symbolism. The sentence is set at six months of imprisonment or fines in line with nasking. The police themselves have stated that they do not have the opportunity to comply with this law without additional resources. I must finally be allowed to comment on the proposal to criminalise purchases abroad. It is difficult to imagine how Norwegian police are actually going to be able to pursue Norwegians buying sexual services from people over 18 years of age abroad. This will require a lot of resources for the Norwegian police, and in some countries this is not punishable either. The Progress Party believes this is a real symbolism policy that is impossible to enforce. I will finally be allowed to include the minority proposals in the vote and say that we support the Christian People's Party's proposal in Section 203. We will also support II in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e477	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e480	Throughout the day, children in Barna's Question Time have told about how violence and abuse have done something to them that they never forget. Some people develop a drug problem, some develop mental problems, some eating disorders, and perhaps, because of that type of incident, some also become prostitutes. We know that violence, abuse and drug abuse occur in parts of the prostitution environment, and many prostitutes have a background that no one can envy them. It is important to support rules against trafficking in human beings, indivisible paragraphs and to focus on social policy instruments. At the same time, we must manage to have a debate on prostitution as a phenomenon, a debate in which we do not adopt an attitude because we ourselves may feel better than some others. We are now adopting something for which you can be in the heart tonight, but which you can be opposed to in the face of the individual people of reality. In spite of heroic efforts by the Labour Party representatives in the Judicial Committee, from the Council of State and from the SVs Inga Marte Thorkildsen, the criminalisation of sex purchases of over 18 years of age comes about. I really want to pay tribute to all six because they worked, but eventually the battle in their own parties lost on just this conclusion. But no matter what we think about criminalisation, we all now have a common responsibility to build attitudes and respect for those we say we will help. The proposals that are on the table from the Left are, in fact, an outstretched hand that we should all support, regardless of what we think about criminalisation. I could say a lot about the state budget. I had actually expected a billion dollars or two, which I've said somewhere, in terms of betting on prostitutes who want to get out of prostitution, for those who are in a difficult social situation, we don't get to help in any other way than that we get a better helper. So I choose to interpret as well as everyone who sits here today, who is sincerely committed to helping all those people that this is about. But when I say «as well as all», I have to say something about the history in order for this decision and the majority to come about. It consists of much assumed moral pathos, misunderstood helpfulness and partly also arrogance towards them. I think it's been sad to see how groups that themselves call themselves solidarity, in reality sacrifice individuals. Prostitute women are kind of victims all the time who don't know their best ever. In what other areas would it have been possible at all not to listen to those involved, those who are not allowed to organize, and who in practice will be most affected by criminalisation by the fact that they are the third-party people who are being intercepted, who lose their apartment, and who can become more dependent on hallucinators, at a higher price both human and economic? Prostitution is more than street prostitution – from those we look at the street, with or without Nigerian backgrounds, to justudines running after male brokers with gold cards, and to domestic housewives. Sex buyers are also just as complex and diverse. But it's been overlooked in history. It's e.g. not without reason that it has become full when e.g. Pro Centret has tried to make it visible that prostitutes can also be ordinary people, who both bake balls, have children and put them in bed in solemn days, because then a situation is described where there will not be such a clear distinction between us and them. That they have done so in order to bring about respect for the fact that prostitutes are also individuals, some of the forces that have been given to this decision have chosen to ignore and believe that this is to contribute to the continuation of prostitution. It's also part of the backcloth of the opinion that was created, which also creates a majority at the end of this evening. I wish that part of those who are now cheering over this decision had taken the trouble to see the individual prostitute and took the trouble of talking to them, rather than believing that criminalisation in a way is only an end in itself. I also want to say that the petty racism we have seen in the debate, we all have a responsibility to fight. It was very strange to see how inflation went in the term 'hore' when she suddenly became black. That's what I think I'm saying about the motivation of someone – not here, maybe, but of a part that contributed to this debate. Finally, I would like to say that it is also the case that there are some boys and men who work as prostitutes – in younger ages, there may be more. It's finally started researching it, it's good, but it's a little strange to see that none of those who have been most eager, have ever bothered to discuss it, because it obviously doesn't fit into the black and white victim image that's created. In Sweden, there are different reasons depending on gender. It is special, but probably not different, in Norway. So on behalf of the Right I apologize for the decision. I hope the majority here is going to get it right, that it helps, but I fear the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e503	A unanimous judicial committee emphasises in its position that trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time, and that all forms of trafficking in human beings must be combated nationally and internationally by measures that prevent and limit recruitment and demand. It also concludes the consensus within the Committee. According to the UN, between one and four million women and children are exposed to human trafficking every year. It is estimated that the trade will bring between 35 and 49 billion dollars each year to Hallicians and backers. In 2007, after a long and thorough process, SV found that criminalising the purchase of sexual services is an important tool for limiting trafficking in human beings. A ban will make Norway a less attractive target for trafficking in human beings and trafficking with foreign prostitutes. This will help to change and raise the awareness of men’s attitudes, and it will place responsibility where it belongs, namely in men who buy sex – mainly in men. Through a law order, we clearly say that people are not a commodity. In the fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution, there are no simple solutions. Crime is a necessary tool, but no solution alone. The fight to reduce trafficking in human beings must be followed up with other measures, the victims of trafficking in human beings must be helped, and the prostitutes must be given the opportunity to create a different life. According to the PRO Centre, there are between 2,500 and 3000 prostitutes in Norway. These are people with complex and diverse needs. The fight against trafficking in human beings must be long-term, not least in terms of reducing the underlying causes of poverty conflicts, social bias and demand. The government has already implemented several important actions in the action plan against trafficking in human beings. The measures must be continued and strengthened in the context of the legal ban. Measures such as the ROSA project are of great importance here. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has recently been instructed to ensure that victims of human trafficking who have witnessed a serious criminal case can, as a general rule, obtain a residence permit in the country and provide a basis for permanent authorisation. Victims of trafficking in human beings are also guaranteed free legal assistance and the right to counsel. The prostitutes are a heterogeneous group, and it is important to see the complexity of each case. The provision of assistance must be individualised — prostitutes often find it difficult to get into the labour market and make use of ordinary labour market measures. Nav must now be able to offer the prostitutes work training, education and work. The experience of the Pro Centre is important here. It is also very important to support projects initiated by the auxiliaries and the prostitutes and former prostitutes themselves. They know the needs best, and I am therefore pleased that we have now created a project pot of 10 million in the 2009 state budget. kr, for which individuals, organisations and establishments may apply for different measures for prostitutes or former prostitutes. The law is a milestone. This should now be followed further. We will follow developments in the market closely from the Government and the SV, and will continuously assess the need to initiate other necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e523	At the beginning of this ageing period, only the Christian People's Party had programmed the criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services. So we're happy that the majority has changed their vision. I think prostitution is an assault -- buying another person is an assault on that person. Now it's settled in the law. It should be punishable to buy sexual services, and that's good. It is a victory for the Christian People's Party and others who have fought the law, but most of all it is a victory for human dignity. Sweden has had such a ban since 1999. I have been to Stockholm and I have spoken with representatives of the police, social security and the Parliament. I look at the vote that the Right and Advance Party will warn against overinterpreting the results of Sweden. To that I just want to say: there are no political parties in Sweden today that want a different law than the one they have, and that says theirs. I could have used my post to argue for this prohibition, but that is not necessary. There is a broad majority in favour of the law – the ban on buying sexual services comes. This ban will change attitudes, reduce demand and thus lead to a smaller market for prostitution and trafficking in human beings. We must ensure that criminalisation does not lead to a worsening situation for the prostitutes. They must be given a worthy alternative. I agree with the majority in the position that it is now important that we continue and strengthen the measures taken under the Bondevik II government, and continue by today's government, in order to improve the situation of victims of trafficking in human beings. Today, there are a number of measures targeting people who want to get out of prostitution. They must be strengthened. Here, efforts through the Nav system need to be expanded. People who are going out of prostitution must be assured of training, work and housing. Victims of trafficking in human beings bearing witness to criminal proceedings must receive a permanent residence permit. It has been argued that one cannot impose a legal ban until one has established all the measures necessary for prostitutes. I would then like to refer to a number of actions that have been taken and which the majority list in the vote. Much is established, and this must be followed up by appropriations. The Christian People's Party supports the existing measures, all the measures that stand in the vote, and we are positive to the ten million that the Government has proposed in this round. In addition, we propose that the Government return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive plan to strengthen the provision of assistance to the prostitutes – a plan that includes: include the establishment of an outreach low-threshold therapy offer and the strengthening of voluntary organisations engaged in auxiliary work aimed at the prostitution environment. The Christian People's Party wants to increase the level of penalties for crimes against children, and we propose to increase the penalties for the purchase of sexual intercourse or acts by minors to fines or prisons for up to four years. We also propose to double the penalties for the purchase of sexual services from people over 18 years of age. As I said at the beginning, at the beginning of this great period, only the Christian People's Party of the political parties represented on the Stortinget, who had programmed the criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services. The game Red, which is not sitting on the Stortinget, had also programmed this. We are therefore pleased that the majority has now changed their view and support the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Now all three government parties vote in favour. But in this case, it is not just the political parties that have a new view of this. Many people here should be grateful for having fought the bill – the Oslo police force, large sections of the trade union movement, with former LO leader Gerd Liv Valla at the head, Women's Group Ottar and many, many more. I even believe that as a society we have got our eyes up for the assaults that have occurred in one of the world's best countries to live in. We are today adopting a ban on the slave trade of our time, but a law ban alone is not enough for prostitution to disappear. If the scale is to be successful, efforts for a worthwhile alternative for those who want to leave prostitution must be intensified. It must be so that the predictions of lawbreakers that prostitution goes underground are put to shame. Criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services is only one of several measures to combat prostitution and trafficking in human beings, but it is a significant contribution to preventing the growth and recruitment of customers. The law will highlight society's attitude that it is unacceptable to buy another person. The fact that, through active use of the law, society does not accept that women are made a commodity is an important contribution to raising the value of women and men in all areas of society. It's about human dignity. Finally, I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e551	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e554	Tonight, the majority in Stortinget will make an important decision, a decision that criminalises the purchase of sexual intercourse and action. It is estimated that up to 2 million people are victims of human trafficking every year. This is the slave trade of our time. Thousands of people are lured every year to move to another country and promise jobs and wages and a future with greater prosperity than they have access to where they come from. Too many of them are already too late to turn around when they come to a foreign country, with unknown language, and feel that what they're going to spend on is to sell their body — to the extent that they get to keep the money. Others are entirely innocent in their own fate. By kidnapping and abduction, they are taken to another country or continent to work as prostitutes. Our point is the following: it is not possible to condemn trafficking in human beings with full confidence, while continuing with a legitimate market for the services in which this trade has its basis. It was at least the Center Party's conclusion when, as one of the first parties, we demanded a law ban on the purchase of sexual services. But let me stress that not all prostitutes are victims of human trafficking. Every prostitute has his story. Crime is an effective act – not just to prevent and restrict the purchase of sexual acts and practices, but to prevent both the recruitment of prostitutes and buyers. The decision we make today will be a signal to the many who live by lure or tear innocent people out of their everyday lives and smuggle them to other parts of the world to make money that they sell their bodies – a signal that in our country we do not accept that there should be a legitimate market for that type of service. It will also be a clear signal that we do not accept that one should be able to buy such use of someone else's body. We don't believe the great majority of prostitutes primarily because they want to make money this way, but because there's no way out. With this as a hindrance, it's important not to forget the many prostitutes who today are troubled because they don't know what today's decisions are going to say to them everyday. In the Central Party, we believe that allowing prostitution in the future is not the best way to help the prostitutes. We need to use a wide range of measures to ensure that those who need it get help out of prostitution. We are pleased that a joint committee in the setting is drawing up a follow-up to this group, and we are ending wholeheartedly on the work being done in this area, which we are going to strengthen in the time to come. The prostitutes are as different from each other as we are in this room. The center party thinks we have to do what we can to follow up each and every one of those who want to get out of prostitution. There's a lot of people here who play important roles. Police do it, Nav does it, and not least the institutions and environments that know and work with these people today, and that have great knowledge of both the stories behind and the everyday life of the prostitutes. The Central Party shares its views with the Committee majority and is content that we are now getting a criminalisation when it comes to the purchase of sexual acts and practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e574	I would very likely, from my whole background, be with the majority here today if I had not met a) Life Rosmer Fisknes, b) Life Jessen and c) talked to prostituted girls. After doing that – and after talking to them, not about – it is clear that the Left cannot participate in a law that makes prostitution for those over 18 years of age a criminal issue. It's been, and it's still a social policy question for us. I'd like to say it so that I think it's easy to say that you do something of concern to someone, when you can in practice make life more difficult. It's fair enough to say that you don't like prostitution, it's honest enough to say that you don't like buying sex, and you have it as your motives, but if you use it as a reason that life gets better for them, I think it's an unusually bad reason. If you use it as a reason to hit trafficking by criminalising, it is a criminal policy ‘all over the world’ — to use that expression. Trafficking hits you by taking backers, by giving real chances to the girls who want out of it, and by taking action here in the country. I want to say that it is good that the government has now cut through and made sure that those who want to testify to things are actually not being pelted out, but are allowed to be here. It's a very real and proper attitude. So I know – and I don't want to be polemic – that the Minister of Justice lost this case with an open visa at his national meeting. And that's how the dividing lines go. When it comes to the situation we get when the law is passed by those who make up the majority here and who then rejoice that they win, I would say the following: at least they shouldn't be happy on behalf of those who are going to live by the law – and now I'm talking about the girls. Those who are concerned that female solidarity is different from that of general women, but that it should also apply to those we are talking about here, should at least think about it. Then we come to what everyone agrees on on the paper, namely the social measures. The left sees that there is a will for this in the government parties, but we do not see it in practice. We do not see that Pro Centret and others have received the practical measures that were said to be in place. We see that it's a will to do it, but they're not in place. That is why, once we have been downgraded to the law itself, we will be promoting proposals that take on board what the government parties have said in the past, namely that the law does not come into force until social policy measures are in place. I don't think Nav's gonna get any money. Nav has to have a bearing, they have to know how to deal with a new social situation, and not just have a theoretical relationship with it. As regards the Pro Centret, on which the Workers' Party expressed concern in relation to the treatment of the Oslo City Council, that matter is not settled before the adoption of the budget in Oslo. The left is a budgetary partner in Oslo – and then I'm not going to add anything more about it right now. In the case of another case, not just to talk about, but with, the Left suggests that the Government put down a sample where, among other things. Representatives from the Pro Centre and the prostitution community are represented. If you are to take social policy measures, you need to do it with those involved, and in dialogue with those involved, in order to ensure that it is accurate. Because it has to be said to itself that if you have the burning hearts, which I perceive everyone here has, you don't put the burning hearts into practice by talking about, but by talking to. And if it's possible for me and others to talk to, it must be possible for most people to talk to. I can say to the assembly that it's a completely real situation to talk to these people we're talking about here. They are normal, up-and-coming people who speak with a clear voice and are able to express their views in a perfectly clear and straightforward way. I would strongly recommend that a situation be created when social measures are taken, where dialogue with those involved. I then mention those who are organized on behalf of the prostitutes, and who present what they stand for in a clear way in public space, and I mention the PRO Center. I would like to have a comment later both from the Council of State and from the government parties on it, because I think it is very important. Since I have a social policy background myself, I have to say that there is a big difference between thinking about this and having some practical measures. It is true that the drawers are full of social policy interventions with good ideals in the Norwegian administration system. Here is the point of getting the measures out of the drawer and making them work in practice. It is precisely the practice that has taken a long time to establish about trafficking, but it has been put in place bit by bit, at the latest by giving something. At that time, humility should also be exercised in this law – one cannot present measures, one must work them out in close dialogue. I would believe that many of those who have been involved in the law but who then agree with representatives like me that they want to have the measures, must at least be concerned that the measures take place in close dialogue and in consultation with those they are to help. You can't help anyone at all, you have to help someone by talking directly to them. On this basis, on behalf of the Left, I promote the two proposals distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e595	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e598	Today’s Odel Sting’s decision, based on the support of the Judicial Committee for the proposal to criminalise the purchase of sexual intercourse and trafficking in Norway and abroad, clearly marks an enhanced fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings. Together with other measures taken by the Government and others, the penal code should be an important instrument in the fight against trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. The aim is to help the offender change attitudes and reduce the prostitution market, and to frame the purchaser. This also reduces the risk of children and adults being exposed, among other things. trafficking in human beings. The proposals for penalties for the purchase of sexual acts and services contained in the proposal imply that the police will have access to a range of coercive measures. This facilitates an effective investigation. I am also pleased that the Committee endorses the proposal to grant access to the technical control of communication facilities by enforcing the penalty against so-called grooming. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party believe that there is a clear distinction between trafficking in human beings and prostitution and that there are already laws that make it criminal to engage in introvertery, trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. The weakness of the reasoning is that neither human trafficking nor prostitution exists within a vacuum and can be considered isolated. With the lawful purchase of sexual services, Norway will be a desirable target for trafficking in human beings and trafficking. A general ban on the purchase of sexual services must be seen as an instrument to strengthen work against trafficking in human beings. People shouldn't be for sale. Both the grounds for equality and the effectiveness of the penal code contradict the restriction of the penalties imposed on certain groups of people. Many are concerned that a law ban will force the market underground and make it invisible, and I am also of them. The Oslo police don't think so. They believe that the benefits of a ban are greater, and indicate that it will be difficult for prostitutes to establish themselves on the internal market without this becoming visible to the police. I stress that the development of the prostitution market should be followed by new developments. That is why the Ministry of Justice has granted 1 million. to carry out a survey of the prostitution market in Norway, particularly in dialogue with, among others. The PRO Centre. The work is carried out by the research foundation Fafo and will be completed in December 2008. The monitoring of the prostitution market will form the basis for evaluating the law at a later stage, after it has worked for a period. In addition to providing important market knowledge, monitoring will also be important as a basis for designing targeted measures to mitigate any adverse effects of criminalisation. We know that Norway is the only country in the Nordic region to carry out a survey of what we might call the prohibition situation. This will be useful in the evaluation we are going to carry out. The National Attorney General and the Police Directorate will increase their expertise in detecting and investigating trafficking issues, and are doing well. In Oslo, since January 2007, police efforts have been significantly strengthened by the establishment of the STOP Group, where 14 employees work to detect trafficking in human beings and infirmities in the prostitution market. Access to coercive measures, as mentioned above, will strengthen the conditions for an effective investigation. Trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation are, to a large extent, an international problem. A ban on the purchase of sexual services abroad will contribute to good attitudes regardless of national borders. In addition, the prohibition could make the Norwegian rules more visible abroad and thus also affect the laws of other countries more strongly than otherwise. Crime is not a simple solution. Many of us have had a hard time doing that. Crime is a bad thing on its own. Crime is also – I was saying – like every criminal, it has its shadow pages. It's important to be aware of. Therefore, criminalisation is only one of several measures to combat trafficking in human beings and prostitution. And in order not to exacerbate the situation of those who get their income from the sale of sex, it is important that criminalisation comes along with other relief measures, more of which have been discussed here, and which time does not allow me to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e620	Today, a law is passed that makes it a criminal offence to buy sex. The only thing that's still allowed now is to sell sex. My question to the Council of State will be quite brief. It's: why doesn't the council criminalize the sale of sexual services in the same way as purchases, if the council thinks he's so concerned about getting rid of this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e627	The answer is simple. I believe that those who live by prostitution, either in whole or in part, have more than enough burden on their shoulders if we don't bother them with criminal prosecution. If someone is going to be the target group for criminalisation, it has to be the men, maybe also some women, who buy sex and in that way take advantage of the rather difficult situation of others. I am of the opinion, especially from the experience I had when I was engaged at the Pro Centret, that those who are struggling with this have more than enough problems if we are not to bother them with punishment in the sense of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e634	The police are in a crisis. How large it is, we can discuss, but the Oslo Police must, in any case, enforce this new penalty. How does the Council of State feel about realism in the fact that the police are going to enforce this new penal code in the situation in which they are in? And on a scale from one to ten, where one is least and ten is greatest, how much priority does he think this is going to get in, for example. Oslo Police?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e641	I don't want to grade the police priorities. The previous government didn't have any tradition for that, and I don't want that either. I think it would carry the wrong place. In addition, the police are not in any crisis – I believe that it is laborious in relation to the manning situation. But it is quite obvious that researching human trafficking and investigating this prohibition, too, is demanding, very demanding. It only gives me good arguments to do the opposite of what the previous government did. Then they picked up few high school police students and put little effort into operating, among other things. in the Oslo Police District, e.g. in 2004. We choose to increase operational resources and train more police officers. It is precisely those who are going to take care of these tasks, which I think are very close to the investigation that is going to take place in relation to human trafficking, where today a significantly better job is being done than just a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e648	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that the job of giving valuable alternatives is starting now. I want to mention one of the things that can be done, namely that Nav can do a specially targeted job to those who want to get out of prostitution and into work. The Oslo City Council decided in June that it would be possible to obtain vocational training for those who wanted to leave prostitution. This was, of course, a symbolic decision, because a decision is needed to amend the law on popular protection. But this was done because one would encourage the Stortinget to create simpler procedures and make it possible to get a special treatment so that one can go through the Nav system more easily and get full rights to professional rehabilitation. Is the Council of State willing to look at this and assess this further, considering that they should not go through the long, individual treatment that is in the Nav system today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e657	I don't think we're ever going to be done with measures against, among other things. the prostitutes. I would like to mention in particular the efforts to ensure safe housing, the protection of witnesses who wish to stand up, and not least that those who will remain here in Norway are allowed to be here, among others. as a result of an extended period of reflection and that they are given the opportunity to obtain additional residence permits. It is also crucial to get involved in other activities. It would really be what could prevent and prevent you from continuing the same life that you've lived. Therefore, I believe that we must obviously be willing to go in and look at all the measures we have in relation to the labour market, including what the representative addresses. I am convinced that this debate, together with the measures and the extra resources that are now coming, is a good inspiration for us to have such a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e664	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e670	Today's bill is an important breakthrough in the fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings, and it is an important stop sign against what I think is undesirable behavior from men. It is the confirmation by society that in Norway people are not to be sold. Such a law will also be normative and say something about what is right and wrong in society, and hopefully dry up the market. And remember, the law places the buyers of sex at risk, because it's the market that creates the need for prostitution. So is also buying sex to trample on sexual equality between men and women. When we know that young boys from high school have debuted sexually with prostitutes in recent years, what kind of view do they get of women's sexuality? A law against the purchase of sexual services is a settlement of structures and attitudes that reduce women and women's sexuality to a good. It's also about gender equality. The law is also unique in recognising the different power relationships between supply and demand. It is the market, the buyers, who are being criminalised. If we had banned the sale of sex, the prostitutes would be innocent. I fully agree with what the Minister of Justice said. Then this law is an alternative to what I perceive is the opinion of the Right and Advance Party in Oslo City, and their double morality. They view prostitution as a problem of order that disappears if you get it out of the center streets. It's really double morals at its worst. I belong to a generation where the right to rule over its own body and sexuality was part of the feminist struggle. The fight for self-determined abortion, the fight against different morals for women and men, the right to decide for ourselves when to have children, and the fight to criminalize the purchase of sex were fundamental questions and related. Now none of us believe that all prostitution or human trafficking disappears by means of this law alone. No one thinks so. Stealing or insider dealing is also prohibited. This does not mean that insider dealing or thefts have disappeared. But the law is at the bottom of dealing with trafficking, dealing with trafficking in human beings, and as I said, they send a powerful signal to men about what is unacceptable, and what violates women's integrity. So finally, we're going to work systematically to get the girls into a different life situation. It's a work that needs to be based on respect, dignity and upliftment for the girls. I will come back to that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e687	Today we adopt a law against modern slavery. It is difficult to know exactly what is best: to get a law prohibiting the purchase of sex, to bet only on social policy instruments — or both. No one here has this fasitite per. Today, I will dare to claim. At the same time, 33 social policy decisions were taken when the Labour Party adopted its national meeting. The question is whether it is really possible to fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution without putting any possible tool into the market, which is the customer. The majority of the population will have a ban. Is it just because they want the aggressive prostitutes out of Karl Johan, or will they influence people's attitudes and say, A human being isn't for sale? The main argument against a law ban is good – that the practice might go underground, that it would be more difficult for the girls, that the elected would like to increase, and that the tools would not be found. Whatever the law or not, it is entirely decisive that action is taken to address the social policy challenges. Whether you're in favour of or against the law, most of them want us to take action to help these girls or boys out of prostitution. But anyway, criminalizing the customer is not the solution alone, but it can be a tool that we can use. I am convinced that it is morally unacceptable in the Norwegian people that Norway's rich men should be able to buy Africa's poor daughters. It is therefore very good that the government has a further 10 million. kr to the prostitutes. This comes in addition to all planned and implemented measures, for which the Minister of Justice did well. I am therefore directly bored when I see that the Progress Party and the City Council of the Right in Oslo have a number of downsizings on offer, such as. to the Court of Justice, to the City Mission of the Church, to the Blue Cross, to the Salvation Army, and to the funds for the drug establishment. I must also comment that when Social Agency Jøran Kallmyr from the Progress Party says that we do not need these tools now when the laws are introduced, yes, I am both frightened and dismayed. Then it's actually renovation we're talking about, and not their girls well. Prostitution is an arena where actors are made objects, and where cynical backers often think themselves rich on others' vulnerability and poverty. Should we not then use all the possible means to stop this? A law ban can help raise the threshold, so that fewer people want to buy sex. It can affect people’s standards and attitudes and thus contribute to the reduction of the market. It may also be involved and affect the recruitment of prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e706	What scares me after listening to this debate is that with a few honest exceptions, all the speakers here call these women and the men girls and boys. Just saying a little bit about what they think about prostitutes. I can't quite see what is the motive of the Government to promote a proposal for a ban on the purchase of sex. I've been thinking thoroughly and for a long time about what might be the reason. My conclusion is that this can't be anything but a clean-up action by the Government, because both the Government and most people have been aware every year that prostitution has taken place here in the country. When Sweden saw a ban, Oslo's parade streets were swimming across Nigerian and Eastern European prostitutes who were no longer wanted in Sweden. And not only that, but they became very aggressive in their marketing as well. Then prostitution became a problem. It was simply too visible and too intrusive, and there was no desired situation for the Government. Why don't you listen to them? Why do you trample down on the heads of those who are now being punished by this prohibition, namely women and men who are prostitutes? I don't understand. The government has not said anything about the extent of prostitution in Norway, but it has said that it allocates 10 million. kr – in addition, yes, I don't know – to get these people off the street. Ten million. kr is no more than a quarter of what the Minister of Culture is going to do from his own pocket in 2009 to put things in perspective. There will hardly be much on each person who will now lose his income base, and it will hardly happen that prostitution disappears. It just disappears from the street environment. Prostitution will hide behind closed doors, where women are more vulnerable and far more unprotected than in the street, where at least you have the opportunity to see their customers. But the problem is solved for the government, for out of sight, out of mind. I have also noticed that the government is using human trafficking as an argument in the matter, and this despite the ban on the activity of insidious people, there is a ban on trafficking in human beings, and this is regulated by other laws. If you have such bad arguments to introduce a law that you have to include arguments that don't hold, you might want to consider whether it has any purpose for such a law at all. Finally, I would like to ask a question about what priority should be given by the police. We know that both violence and profit crime are being blamed. Should resources be used now, and should the police be around the bushes to hunt for sex customers while the prostitutes are being knocked behind closed doors?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e719	There has been a long and quite demanding debate in advance of this matter. It's been stamping each other's motives. We have heard examples today of who has spoken to who, who has spoken to, and who has spoken to. But if we can see a little bit past the rhetoric that is now used from both sides, I think we can honestly admit to each other that much of the drive, no matter what kind of position you've ended up with, has been the concern of prostitutes women and men. That's why I think it's pretty important that we now say that this is not a goal line, but a starting line, because this law, no matter what you mean, isn't enough alone. It is normative and says that women and men or children cannot be salesmen, and it is Christian People's Party pleased with. At the same time, it's incredibly important that we don't now lean back satisfactorily and say that now we're in port, because that's when it starts. The Christian People's Party was the first party to make a decision. It was before Sweden made its decision, and we saw changes in the prostitution environment here in Oslo. But when we hear the representatives of the Progress Party here, I think they have to go on their own. It's a touching concern. But when we hear that they in the city council are proposing to cut down on social policy measures, the argumentation goes off. We've read strong stories from women who have tried to get out of prostitution, and we know that it's not easy. What kind of CV do you have to join society? Hubs must be rehabilitated. We need to make a much stronger effort with action. It is quite wrong to cut social policy measures per year. today. The commitment shown here in the hall, and the so-called touching care, you can show in practical action by getting a much better support device than you've got today. There are many people who now want to be with and do something. I want to focus on one thing, this with a place of residence. The Minister of Justice can talk to the police, because it is clear that when you follow the prostitutes' homeowners to get them to cancel the women, so that they are without both housing and opportunity for income and livelihood, we have a challenging situation. We know that there are several people who want to join in and contribute both in terms of residence and work training. The Pro Centre has been mentioned. The Marita Foundation is also mentioned. I believe that such measures should be able to get into port. This decision is no one in the Christian People's Party who sees it as an easy decision. We know about the demanding challenges, but we promise that for us this is a starting point, not a finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e732	It was good to hear that the other speakers of the Christian People's Party had an indication of nuance, for the representative Bjørg Tørresdal, as opposed to the last speakers, and the members of the Judicial Committee from the Workers' Party have not made one attempt to devise any argument against criminalisation. You've decided completely in advance. You've kind of seen the movie "Lilja 4-ever" – that's it, and everything is like that. The police are supporting this. Well, is it so that the whole police Norway supports it? There are some policemen who have said that, but it is not clear. One has not gone out as an organization and said that this is particularly sensible. You can see that it's going to be problematic to enforce it. Then you praise the Women's Group Ottar. It's a group that has been harassing prostitutes for years. I was at a conference in Stockholm – where the representative Tørresdal should also have been – where there were representatives of the Women's Group Ottar who had the position and principle: destroy some eggs, so you get omeletted. On the question of what you're going to do if any of the prostitutes have a problem, the Women's Group replied Ottar: "The feeling we have to do something about it, you can't waste time on the individuals who actually get a problem -- we have to dry up and bet a little. That's what I think I'm saying about the human dignity that the organization that you're bragging about stands for. Then it's Sweden and the Nordics. You point to Sweden. There are no clear conclusions and clear research into this. You don't have to pretend it's so obvious that criminalization is a really good solution. The members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party have not done so. I also think parts of the Christian People's Party should take over, so that we can discuss and have a real dialogue. Then, like the representative Marit Nybakk, I register that you don't say a pipe about men. So it's giving a signal to men. That's exactly how it was in Sweden. There would also be no discussion of men, although probably there are boys who make up the majority. In Sweden, it has been assumed that prostitution for boys is not so difficult because they do it for a short time, it's to prevent HIV, and it's also so that they're more sexually tested. There are underlying positions in Sweden regarding the discussion of men. Then I ask myself, what is this really? Why in the world aren't all those who are so concerned with criminalisation, and are yelling at the men who also sell sex? Why haven't they taken a single initiative to have a dialogue with them either? So to the methodology. Doesn't it worry the representative Tørresdal, the surveillance that's taken place by someone who's not a criminal? Doesn't it worry at all that there can be a situation for many of the prostitutes? Finally, the representative Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party will at least be involved in an investigation and look at the effect of this, as the Right and Advance Party propose, so that we can arrange the law so that it actually works, and not just believe it after watching the film "Lilja 4-ever".
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e749	I envy all those who don't have any concerns about criminalizing, just as I envy all those who don't have any concerns about not criminalizing. I have been one of those who the rapporteur spoke about, who has doubted a position on this matter. That position lasts just as long as we've been evaluating the law a few years in time. I think the matter is incredibly complex because it has so many sides. I myself have been here many times, as the rapporteur for laws, and I have talked a lot about the normative in legislation. I think that is also a good argument in this case. If we hit the market, there's every reason to believe that we also hit or reduce the recruitment of prostitution. I think that is a good argument. I also think it is a good argument that research says so clearly that it is extremely difficult to distinguish prostitution from trafficking in human beings. It may have been the argument that has made me, with a little bit of a light heart, vote for criminalisation. Then I get a little tired when representatives stand up here talking about that they've been talking to prostitutes, and there should have been more people doing that, etc. I think a lot of people have done that many times. That's why many of us have problems because criminalisation has so many aspects to it. I am at least very pleased that the Workers' Party had a broad approach to the debate at the national meeting last year. The result was 33 points, as the representative Heggø mentioned. This is one of the 33, and I might not think it's the most important thing at all. When it comes to it, it's because it's going to hit the market, it's going to reduce recruitment, and because the police that's investigating, for example. trafficking in human beings, says so clearly that they are positive about criminalisation, because it will facilitate their efforts to take back-places for trafficking in human beings. What I am very pleased about is that the Minister of Justice has been so clear in the preparation of the law, with research, but also that it should be evaluated. It will at least give us a different security from what the Swedish have. It's not just rose red in Sweden. I've been to Sweden myself, like many others here, and I've heard what the Malmo police say. There's no reduction in street prostitution. So it's not a black and white image. That is why I will end with what I started with: I envy all those who are so sloppy in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e764	I have in my time been involved in proposing the criminalisation of the purchase of sex from minors, and of course I stand by that. I have followed the debate in Sweden. I have followed it so closely that I have found that until now they have made no attempt to evaluate, but now they are supposed to do so. I have also read messages from what happened in Stockholm: First they blew the streets, and then it started to come back again. I have had the dubious pleasure of flying to Riga along with Swedish men on their way to buy what they did not get in Stockholm. It was a bit of a special experience, which most people can take with them – in the sense that when you get to the Baltic states, you also come to a world where you see that trafficking matters are complex. You see that it's a poverty issue, and you see that those who are there are trying to do something. They prefer not to have someone come with moralising indexing fingers from the outside, unless you set up at all levels. There are more people in the room who have talked about it. When you say that you're passing a law against slavery, it's wrong. We've done that for the longest time. We've been working on trafficking for the longest time. One of the worst arguments of the law that comes now is that it should help against trafficking. No, this is because you're against buying sex. That's what you're going to say. If you are to work towards trafficking, which is heavy, demanding issues, you must do such work as the Rosa Group has done together with the crisis centre secretariat, which you try to do with the police, and finally, like what has been done by the government cutting through – and commend it: Those who dare witness are not thrown out of the country. So they get a chance to be here, so they're taken seriously as witnesses to these cases. It is a tough and systematic work that is very demanding. Even I have a deep concern that criminalisation should make it easier for some of the backers. I would have liked to have said that from this pulpit. As for what I took up in my first post, it was with a pretty strong heart to take everyone seriously about social policy measures. So I say again to both the Council of State, the Workers' Party and the other government parties' speakers here: I suggest that a group be set up – I have mentioned the Pro Centre and the prostitution environment, but they would like to talk to the Rosa group, which is doing a difficult and important and good job. My point is to have the dialogue with those involved, so that the measures are accurate. I would hope and believe that there was something you could actually agree on in this room, even after the last post that came from Breen, where he says there are more people who have, of course, listened. I'm old enough in this room to remember the time that Karin Yrvin, on behalf of the Women's Secretariat of the Labour Party, had listened so much that you went against criminalisation. I accept that in politics it is a wave. I accept that it swings, and I accept that it is different. I choose to take everyone's word, that when you want to act socially, you do it. When it comes to Oslo, I just have to say dry: we can try the Left and Christian People's Party, which is involved in making budgets in Oslo. We're going to do our thing, and then the government parties can make sure that the money that has so far been missing in the budgets. So we can see what this looks like as we approach Christmas, in the sense that here it has to be a good thing for more people. It is the case in Oslo that the budgets are not settled without the Left. I'm not going to repeat it anymore. Those who wonder what that means can ask me afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e783	First, a few comments on articles that have been kept in the hall. To Karin S. Woldseth: So it's not like my commitment to prostitution and to criminalize buying sex is something that's been going on for the last two years. I've been doing that for 30 years. Just so that's said. So to André Oktay Dahl: Yes, I think it's important what Dahl says. There are also boys, not least young boys, who are victims of human trafficking. We also have to take them into account and think about. Now that this law is being implemented, it is important that we get resources for planning social measures. We are a group with origins in Oslo Arbeiderparti and with several staging representatives from the Workers' Party who have engaged us throughout the autumn, among others. in relation to the Ministry of Justice and to our own government in order to obtain funds for social measures. We're going to keep working on it. We've spent a lot of time on it for months now. Then we will be aware of what is actually stated in the Workers' Party's National Meeting Decision on tailor-made, individual measures to get girls – so we have written girls – out of prostitution and into schooling and job training. This is going to be a continuation of what the Rosa project is doing today. The ROSSA project can really show results in getting girls into a work situation or into a training situation, so that they can be certified that they have had a job and that they have completed a training course. If they are, for example, if they are from Bulgaria or from Moldova, they may return home with proof that they have been to Norway and have attended school. The Nadheim Centre in the Church's Bymition suggested to us in the Oslo Workers' Party that Nav can offer organisations such as the Church's Bymition or other organisations money, so that the girls can get employment there, earn money and get proof again that they have been in a working situation. I think you have to be very systematic, very concrete in what you put up to, to help those who are going out of prostitution. The Nadheim Centre has also addressed this issue with homes for girls who are formerly prostitutes and who are going into a work situation. I would also challenge the Council of State on that, because there has been a letter from the Nadheim Centre to the Government about that. Finally, it is also important that we support international organisations working against trafficking in human beings, over the external budget. Those who work against trafficking in human beings, and we who sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee, take this up every trip abroad with trafficking in human beings with male politicians, whether in Ukraine or in the Baltic States.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e798	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, said that I was unyanished in my post. To that I can say two things: when it comes to the view of prostitution, I have a clear view of it. I mean, it's an assault on women and men. That you can buy another person for such a service, I believe is an infringement. I'm totally ready and nuanced in my speech. For me, it's a no for the purchase of other people. But when it comes to this law, I don't think it's easy. I mean the job starts now, and if the representative Dahl had heard my post, he would have heard that I did not argue for or against the law. I used my article to tell you what needs to be done now, that is, all the measures you commit to. So André Oktay Dahl said the police support this, but who in the police? It wasn't unique. What I referred to was the police in Oslo who in May 2006 spoke on all channels in our country. It was that spring discussion for the first time came up in Stortinget. I have also been to Stockholm. I asked politicians, social services and the police to find opponents of the law they had had for many years in Sweden. I wanted to talk to the opponents. I also agree with Dahl that they should have evaluated, but in sum, there are no politicians in the parliament who want to change the law. I think that is a quite clear sign, because there was great resistance also in the Riksdagen when the law was assessed. But, of course, it is linked to some challenges to take action in relation to such a law, and we must take this seriously. Then I want to say that I want to praise the representative Dahl, because he said in his post that regardless of whether you are in favour of or against this law, when the law comes, we must agree to get good action. He'll thank you for that, and that's where we agree. The Christian People's Party agrees that we can evaluate the law, and we would have thought before it was said by the pulpit, to support the proposal of the Right and the Progress Party, because I think it's clever, not least because we're going to initiate the right measures, to evaluate the law and the measures that come into the wake of it. Finally, the representative from the Left, Odd Einar Dørum. It doesn't surprise me that he says that no one else has thought about or talked to people who have been victims of human trafficking, or who are in prostitution. Now I just have to confirm that there have been several of us, and that must not be where the debate lies. But we want to support the Left's proposal No. 6, so I can reassure Doorroom that we agree on that point. Now let's all stand together to make the best of the situation when we get the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e817	There are some logical flaws here in the debate. The representative, Woldseth, said that when Sweden banned the purchase of sexual services, Norway's parade street was filled by Nigerian ladies. But then it's just to keep thinking, what does that mean? Well, that means that when the market is not there, they come here. Then it is important to think further: if all countries prohibit it, the market is suffocated, and then women – and the men who are also bought – get their dignity back. It's just a matter of moving the fight forward step by step. So the question is, what should the police prioritize? That's a new way of thinking about it. If this is so that every time we make a law, we also have to base, write in a note, that this law should be given priority, while others should not. It is clear that all the laws adopted by the Norwegian National Assembly should be given priority. I can ask questions back to the Advance Party: when the tipping cranes are to be open at all times of the day, and reach 760 million. According to the policy of the Advance Party, will the alcohol tax be reduced to next year, is it not the case that there are some priorities for the police? What should they prioritize, or deprioritize? Then there's another a little bit of a strange experience. The representative Oktay Dahl went to a frontal attack on a group that is not present in the hall, which has no opportunity to defend itself, the Women's Group Ottar. I think it was a strange appearance of a big-time representative from the Stortinge interlocutor. Get out of the way of political parties sitting in the hall who are able to defend themselves! Don't do what I experienced here now! I understand that he needed to give up his frustration when he gets bored on the toes of his budget partners in Oslo, both the Christian People's Party and the Left. We understood well what the representative from the Left meant. Budgetary negotiations are under way in Oslo – the budget negotiations are ongoing in Stortinget. When the Right puts down or restricts the offer to the Night Home, to the Jobben Project, to the Bakery, to other low threshold offers in Oslo, and it is charged from the Left and Christian People's Party from the Stockholm pulpit, I realize that the Right gets frustrated. But it's possible to solve this in Oslo with a better budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e834	I think this has been a very interesting debate, perhaps primarily because there have actually been many in this debate that have not been sloppy, but that have asked questions in a very complicated and difficult case. I have some comments on the debate. First to Odd Einar Dørum, who said that this law is not an action against trafficking in human beings. He is then on a collision course with perhaps the leading expert on trafficking in human beings in Norway, namely the STOP group in the Oslo police force. The head of the STOP Group just stresses that the law will be an important measure to combat trafficking in human beings. There is a proposal from the Left on when the law will come into force. I and many people with me have been in dialogue with many who are working against the prostitution environment. Most recommendations have been that the law should come into force as soon as possible, although not all measures should be in place. I'm very happy that we're going to have an evaluation of the law. It will show whether we're taking the right action as well. I think it is important that the law comes into force as soon as possible, even if not all the measures are in place. Many people are waiting for it, not least the girls in the prostitution community, who now experience living in a vacuum. I also think it is important that we have a dynamic relationship with the measures. If they don't make it right, we also have to be willing to change them. With regard to the proposal from the Left on a sample, I said in my first post that we are positive to close cooperation after the law has come into force, including. Representatives of the Pro Centre, there may be others from the Secretariat of the Crisis Centre, from the Municipality of Oslo. We have to get back to the form here. That is why I ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal. So both the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown a commendable commitment to strengthening the measures. But I still feel that you are vague in relation to the situation in the Municipality of Oslo and the dramatic cuts, not only to the Pro Center, but to many social assistance measures. My question to the representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party is: How far are you actually willing to go in order to prevent the unsocial cut of the Progress Party and the Right Town Council? I experience the same thing in relation to the Right and the Advance Party. I feel that it's a powerful double communication. You're accusing us of running a renovation policy. At the same time, you have a city council that believes that social measures are not necessary when the law is in force, and you want police regulations that allow you to expel all of us who don't like, and everything we don't like, from the streets of Oslo. It's a renovation policy. It's clean-up action. It is – as always – a long way between life and learning when it comes to the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e849	The President will clarify that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e852	First, the representative, Bjørnflaten, who is talking about police regulations, and that we want to expel unwanted people from the streets. Now, in fact, this government has done nothing about the human trafficking that is taking place every day, by actually running beggars to Norway and letting them sit in our parade. This is human trafficking. This is traffic. The government has not done anything about this. As for the representative Nybakk, I have no doubt that someone has worked for this for 30 years. We've been fighting women for over 30 years, actually. I think what we see here today is just a bunch of prejudices. We turn ascending women and men into victims all of them, every one of them. Not everyone is a victim. There's some people who actually pick this themselves. Of course, we must combat trafficking in human beings – of course we must. We have approved, and we have ratified a Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings. Laws regulate trafficking in human beings. It's something completely different. It doesn't make sense to use it as an argument. I also do not understand the SV's representative, who says that it makes the police work to take the backers easier to drive the women and the men into enclosed rooms. I don't think they're on the outside showing the way. So how to make the backers easier to get hold of if you hide prostitution, I don't know. It would have been nice if the representative from SV could explain me. I have also not heard how the police intend to enforce this law. In this country, where we now see a formidable police crisis, we are now introducing a law to hunt for criminal sex customers. How are we going to do that? I can hardly imagine, as I said in my previous post, that the police should have a firm patrol in those places where prostitutes were met in the past. I can't imagine them lying in the bushes around where you know that prostitution is going on, to see if you can hijack a sex customer. I would like to imagine that the Council of State actually responded to how the police have intended to enforce this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e863	I don't think we can have a debate on this topic without also saying anything about causes of prostitution. There are two themes that I think it is important to address in this context as well. One of them is about Russians. Part of the social policy measures that must take some of the women and men in prostitution are that we need a strong improvement in care. Here I believe that the Storting should be conscious of its responsibility, and perhaps this can also be a matter that makes us focus more on this and get the order of a rather unworthy care in our country. In addition, there has been a lot of talk about foreign girls being prostituted in Norway. Then the question is, what's the reason for that? Clearly, the difference between the rich and the poor part of this world is colossal. It is up to us, as a rich country, to be involved and equalise those differences. What we do in aid policy, what we do in peace and reconciliation policy, is also related to this overall picture. Whether this can help with trafficking or not – I have to say that the representative of Dørum has a simple approach to this. We know that the backers of the big trafficking case in Trondheim said that the reason they chose Norway was that we did not have this kind of legal ban with us. So this will work preventively when it comes to behind-the-scenes' attitude to where they choose prostitution. What we have to do is work internationally for more countries to join this, and not just move these women to other countries. The Swedes never examined in advance. They never looked at what really happened to the women in prostitution. There's my concern. That is why I am pleased that in Norway it has been learned and that it is now being surveyed in advance. I also know that we have learned from and will follow up afterwards to see what is actually happening to the women. Whether or not everyone is a victim is a big discussion. I think if you're going to define it so that there's someone who's a victim and someone who's not a victim, it's probably my heart, and I want to fight for, those who actually feel like a victim in this case -- those who are addicted to drugs, those who need proper social policy measures, and who need rehabilitation psychologically and in relation to work and work practice. It's the ones that make us fall on the proposal we've made. And it's the ones that make us want to follow up on social policy measures as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e876	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e879	It is beautiful with the crocodile tears for the Municipality of Oslo, considering that you follow up on the Sørheim Committee and thus reduce 100 million kroner to the Municipality of Oslo to follow the policy of the Government. Then it's beautiful with crocodile tears because of what's happening. Otherwise, I think it's funny to listen to the representative, Chaudhry, who seems nice to be chasing prostitutes for years from the Ottar women's group, that they are praised and not taken in when you boast of such a group, what they have actually contributed to. I really think the most special thing is to see the representative Chaudhry's ability to bring with him what was the background for what I said, and to follow some newspapers, there's not exactly Obama's pace over it. In fact, as far as experience from Sweden is concerned, Nigerian women are coming to Sweden because they have heard that it is going to be criminalised in Norway. And there it's been criminalized for ten years. That's what I think I'm saying about the experience in Sweden. Then, finally, an explanation of vote. The right is going to vote in favour of the Left's proposal, and we are going to vote against the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e890	What got me to take the floor now, was the representative Woldseth's post, where she must have spoken a little in error. So when she accuses the government of not doing anything to take those who are trafficked beggars, it is completely wrong. It's been two years since the Storting treated the extension of the human trade paragraph, just to include the group of people who are in traffic. So it's similar to those who are engaged in sexual services – that's the same law clause as for those who are engaged in organized begging. Once I'm here, I can also take the opportunity to appeal to everyone – because it's a big social commitment – that we do what we can within our respective parties to lift the social policy instruments, whether it's in the Oslo City Council or here in the Stortinget. In this context, I would like to congratulate Marit Nybakk and all those who have worked hard this autumn to release the money we have now received. It is of the order of magnitude about. four times as much as the cut proposed in Oslo. So that matters. It must be my final appeal that we all have a job to do on the basis of the will that is in this room in terms of social policy instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e897	There's a couple of relationships I want to record. Firstly, when it comes to issues of renovation, we must guard against creating a criminal law that aims to renovate, especially against those who labor the most. It's one of the counter-arguments to the law. At the same time, I have to say that here we are just directing legislation against the buyer and towards the market, so those who now claim the renovation argument with weight should at least go into their own proposal, that is to say the Right and the Advance Party's proposal, which is actually a proposal that ignores the customer, which is very much directed towards the seller of sex and which is clearly operationally renovation. It's about expulsion. It doesn't give any instructions on what to do other than that. Something more renovative than that is hard to find. The second question I want to comment on concerns trafficking in human beings. There are people who now claim that trafficking in human beings has been criminalized in many ways, we have rules of our own, so this has nothing to do with trafficking in human beings in many ways. I deeply disagree with that. Human trafficking rules are directed primarily at those who organize human trafficking and who are backers. Now we're going to take men in advance, to say it like that. And it will be important also to be able to detect human trafficking. Getting a permit to take the customer will be important in terms of being able to take the backman. There must be one reason why the STOP group and some others who deal with the issues – complex issues – believe this to be valuable. And that's what many people have tried to say in their introductions, that here it's about a very complex image in many ways. It says, as far as I know – I have never seen it – as well as the stamp in the forehead of the prostitute that she is exposed to human trafficking. This is legislation that can help us to discover more human trafficking as well. That's why it's important. That's one of the benefits. The third thing I would like to say is in the light of what Mr. Dørum has to say about having a dialogue with those who now fear a lot of the back of this legislation. It was just supposed to be missing. Many of us have just learned that the dialogue we have had with the Pro Centre – and users of the Pro Centre, I would like to stress this – and also ROSA and other projects, are very valuable for all kinds of activities we conduct in terms of policy up against this group. So I'm open to and willing to have dialogue, as described in Left's proposal No. 6, and that we should also have that dialogue in order to achieve secure social measures in the future. We just have to have time to figure out what form it is going to take, and I therefore ask the Left to consider turning it into a transmission proposal. It will receive the most benevolent treatment on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e906	There are four points I would like to comment on here in the debate. The first is that it's very difficult to distinguish between human trafficking and prostitution when we assume that over 70 pst. of those who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, they end up in prostitution. For the prohibition to be in force abroad, and for this to be difficult: yes, it becomes difficult to investigate, but I think it is positive that it should also be in force abroad, and it will not be the only legislative proposal that will also apply to Norwegian citizens who are abroad. For example, sex with people under 16 years of age is also exiled abroad. By leaving this forbidden debt abroad, in fact, small Norway can once again be involved in influencing other countries and being one of the pieces that leads to other countries taking up this issue. With a law ban, we're about all companies and companies in Norway that haven't introduced special ethical rules, including the Stortinget. It is in itself positive that everyone gets such rules, and it will seem preventative. Colleagues and friends cannot sit quietly and watch if the laws are broken. Human beings shall not be at the sale either domestically or abroad. Then I have a few words for the police department. After all, they were supposed to give permission for the police to expel the prostitutes from the streets. I would like to quote from Document 8:39 for 2006-2007: ‘The proposers also see the need for police to be able to intervene in the provision of sexual services, organised begging and sales where this is given an extent that completely alters the nature of an area, even if the activity itself is not species as aggressive.’ What else is this than getting them out of the streets, then? Finally, the representative Dahl: Oslo Municipality has received additional transfers of NOK 1.2 billion in this government's period, and that's a real increase. And as far as I know, they haven't exploited all of their revenue possibilities either. A keyword there can be a property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e922	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice before and now has a speaking time of up to 1 minute to a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e925	Since we're getting closer to Christmas and budget negotiations in the Municipality of Oslo are not going to happen from Storting's pulpit, you could say that those who negotiate there are going to do their thing, and then the government parties can do their thing, so it's not just going to be a collection of $10 million. kr, but also the other money to be spent. Then to two other relationships. First of all, I would say, having heard both the chairman of the committee and, in particular, the posts of the Council of State, which is one of the most kind and precise things I have ever heard in relation to a proposal in the Chamber, that I will, of course, make my proposal no. 6 to a transmission proposal, because I perceive that the Council of State expresses itself as clearly as he does. When it comes to trafficking and how to combat it, I allow myself to say the following, and it only has to be a statement from my side: After working on questions about organized crime for a period of over 13 years, including trafficking, I have to say that I have more sense for the representative Nybakk and others who are pure-haired say that the reason for what you are doing now is that you are against buying sex. You are, and that's a position that I don't think works as it is, but it's honestly argued. But trafficking I think you're fighting with another kind of effort. We're going to get back to that in other contexts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e935	The President will draw attention to the fact that the proposal in question is a proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget, so you have the opportunity to come back to it then. Also Bjørg Tørresdal has had the word twice before and now gets the word for a maximum of 1 minute to a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e940	At the gallery there are representatives of the women's group Ottar. In my opinion, the representative Dahl came with demeaning considerations in relation to this group. It can't be undisputed. Whether you agree or disagree with the Ottar women's group, they must be treated with respect, and they have done a good job for equality, against pornography and prostitution. Whether you agree or not, you should be able to speak positively about your opinions. So finally, on my visit to Stockholm, I talked to one of the policemen who worked especially in relation to street prostitution. He said that the law also had a very positive effect that they had not expected, namely that the prostitutes who were still in Stockholm could use the law. So when they were very violent customers, they could report them, and get free and protected from the extra violent customers. Let's hope that we can fight the negative effects, the difficult challenges of the law, and accept what the law is supposed to do, namely protect and provide help to the prostitutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 55]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e955	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1024	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1034	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1044	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1180	It is first votted over I from § 2 nr. 2nd sentence up to and including § 7 para. 1st sentence and from § 7 new paragraph Paragraphs 4 to 10 (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1191	It is then votered over § 7 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1215	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1227	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1279	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1289	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1299	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1370	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 Paragraphs 15 to 7 shall be replaced by the following: annual transitional benefit shall be 1,94 times the basic amount.» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1387	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 29 April 2005 21 on the supplementary benefit to persons with short butide in Norway is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: Supplementary social benefits are granted to persons who have reached the age of 67 before 1 January 2009 and are resident in Norway.’ The voting boards showed that 54 votes were cast against and 19 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.33.49]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1403	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1408	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1414	The proposal was therefore rejected by 56 votes to 17. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1445	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1472	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1483	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1492	During the debate, Dagrun Eriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to improve the financial conditions of pregnant women who do not have parental leave rights in relation to working life by stepping up the single payment for pregnant women to 2 G.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1681	It is first voted on section 3-5, paragraph 6. Here the Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1694	It goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1704	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1714	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1724	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the section on page 11, the other proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1810	The President will now deal with proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III The Law enters into force when enhanced social measures are in place for the prostitutes and from the time the King decides. The individual provisions may enter into force at different times.’» The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1863	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. The Christian People's Party has announced that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1878	The President will draw attention to the fact that according to the rules of the Storting there is no right to make comments from the gallery. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1923	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e1937	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20-lower.ana.ud948e2000	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?’ The meeting has been cancelled.
