ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e74	The representative Finn Martin Vallersnes, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e83	The President will propose the election of three presidents of the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solveig Horne, Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e104	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e113	This is about the so-called random fishing scheme, which is a system in which sea fishing boats can transfer residual quotas — ‘random’ — between boats in different fleets. The system was established to allow more rational fishing. One should skip to take an extra trip to get a little bit of the quota, and may instead allow another boat to take it. The system of random fishing is regulated by the Structural Quota Regulations, etc. for the sea fishing fleet. So far, the system has allowed up to 20 pst to be transferred. of most of the species of fish of another vessel belonging to the same owner, after a date of cutting set to 1 October. The industry has made proposals for changes in the scheme earlier this year, and has highlighted in particular the challenges of high bunker prices, which made it extraneous to be able to operate rational fishing. As the proposers see, flexibility could also have a beneficial effect on the environment, as more rational fishing would reduce the emission of harmful environmental gases from the fishing fleet. This is a matter that the department has been working on for a long time. Already in March, a group was set up to identify technological, logistical and administrative factors that could help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fishing fleets and more environmentally friendly fishing. In connection with this, the industry is occupied with the need to adjust the random fishing system in order to make better and more efficient use of the allocated quotas. The Ministry also has other concerns that they have been concerned about, for example. the stability of the allocation of allowances between the different groups, the costs associated with increased quota turnover, and the consideration of the ceiling of the structural arrangements. It has been important to adapt the long-term fleet structure in relation to the resource base and the cost level of the fishing fleet, while, in the longer term, it is important to avoid different quota arrangements undermining the objective of the structural system itself. Various alternatives have been evaluated, but in September the department sent out on hearing suggestions for a simpler and improved random fishing system. The proposed changes were widely supported and the changes to the scheme were adopted on 17 October 2008 and have entered into force. This matter has therefore been resolved, in line with the intentions set out in the draft representative. There is a joint committee that joins the changes that have now been made, except the Right and the Advance Party. I expect that they will do their best for their own vision. The fact that we have now put in place a system that will lead to greater flexibility and make fishing more rational, profitable and environmentally friendly is very enjoyable. On behalf of the case spokesman, Steinar Gullvåg, I put forward this Innst. S. No 39 for 2008-2009, to improve the quota flexibility of the sea fishing fleet and to advise the Stortinget to support the plurality of its recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e132	The previous speaker explained why the proposal was being put forward. It was probably promoted in May this year, so it has been a while since the proposal was promoted until it is discussed in the Chamber. Since then, changes have also been made to the Random Fishing Scheme – a change made by the Government in October this year. What is gratifying is that we have succeeded in pressing the Government in the right direction in this matter. But what we in the Progress Party also address in the proposal is that the Government should have the opportunity to go further. We record that the industry also wants this change. Norges Fiskarlag wants it, FHL wants it and Innovation Norway wants it, and then it's okay that we get the proposal, and then we get the vote on it in the hall today. I shall therefore refer to the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e146	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e149	Good and predictable framework conditions for the fishing fleet are a major concern of the Right in the Fisheries Policy. Although the fishing industry is important in order to ensure ‘light in the house’, fishermen must have framework conditions such as other competitive industries. Thus, district policy objectives must not overshadow the fact that the fishing industry, like other industries, must have good framework conditions for producing healthy food to the people, economic surpluses to the owners, tax revenues to society, safe jobs and activity and coastal settlement. The situation of the fishing industry has been challenging. High fuel prices and competition for partly government-subsidised labour have been part of everyday life. Nor did the NOx tax, one of the government's really big faults in the fisheries sector, improve the situation. The effect of a high level of costs is to reduce the profitability of fisheries. The result is that quotas are not being fished and that the industry is not getting the raw material it needs. As a result, the number of persons employed in the whitefish industry has decreased by about 2 %. 3 000 annual works, or 46 p.m., for the period 1995–2005. Of course, there are several factors that have occurred, but the profitability of fishing is part of this. The actual regulation of the way fisheries are carried out is crucial. Its more efficient fishing, its greater value creation and its less fuel use. Today’s Business Day, April 26, we could read that there were fish quotas for half a billion dollars unfished in 2007. According to the Federation of Fishery Shipowners, the corresponding quota values remained unfished after the 2005 season only in the case of cod, hay and seine. This is largely lost activity for the fishing industry and lost opportunities for our coastal industry. If a vessel is able to release a residual remainder of an allowance, so-called random, to another vessel that is in any case going out of control, it will be possible to save both fuel and environmental emissions. The so-called random fishing scheme shall thus contribute to the flexibility of the sea fishing fleet. This is about finding good solutions for the practical fishing at sea. However, the scheme has had some rather square requirements that have limited its use. Therefore, the right-hand proposal of 22 May this year was aimed at improving the random fishing system so that fishing could become more efficient and the quotas could be better used. It is positive that the Government has responded to the proposal and the corresponding requirements of the fishing industry. The amendments to the regulation on random fishing of 17 October now in the autumn are, as the rapporteur's spokesman said, in line with the intentions of our proposal. To this end, the right supports the amendments, which include: the requirement that a single-boat carrier must enter into a three-year cooperation contract in order to operate the random fishing system, the removal of a single-boat carrier shall be allowed to cooperate with a multi-boat carrier and the reverse ship transferring the quota to another vessel may no longer be withdrawn from other fishing operations and the interception date of the random fishing system, 1 October, has been removed for all fisheries other than cod; Furthermore, a vessel emitting the quota is required to have fished half of the quota before the vessel receiving the quota can start fishing. This came from the Fiskarlag and shall prevent vessels which did not intend to participate in the fishing operation from selling 20 pst. of the quota under the random fishing scheme. The Committee has noted that the Minister for Fisheries is considering further measures to improve quota flexibility, including: to change the allowance year and the establishment of an allowance bank for the transfer of the allowance from one year to another. This is a positive step from the Government to which we join. However, we must take into account the fact that a nearly total fishing industry at the Fiskerlag, FHL and Innovation Norway will go beyond the Government. The main proposal they are making is to increase the percentage of maximum random fishing from 20 pst. to 30 pst. This is a powerful tool, because it really means a 50 pst. increase in relation to current arrangements. Furthermore, the industry considers that the date of cutting must also be removed for cod. These proposals are re-launched by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. I cannot see any good reason to say no to the proposals when the signal from the industry is so clear. The government is justifying the resistance to 30 pst. that this – as opposed to 20 pst. – is not a coincidence that would not be fished due to lack or marginal profitability. I don't think this argument is particularly convincing or clarifying. I think a lot of fishermen can increase profitability, save fuel, increase quota withdrawal and increase the volume of the fishing industry if this limit is further increased to 30 pst. There is a distinction in Norwegian fisheries policy between those who enjoy regulation and those who are engaged in robust and forward-looking fishing with good profitability and safe jobs. The right is definitely in the last group, and therefore we want further improvements in the random fishing system to improve the efficiency and profitability of the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e195	The random fishing system is hardly a theme for the coffee table conversation in most Norwegian homes. But it's an important theme, because this is about sensible resource withdrawals within the fisheries that are set out in the quota allocations. Of course, resource withdrawals mean a lot to fishermen who depend on just these resources for income. However, resource withdrawals also mean resource access for fish industry farms and for other actors both in the processing and sales chain. This is once again about the bushing along the coast, the fact that we can have busses throughout our country. This is about the production of food, and it is a theme that is becoming more important and more important, not least in a global perspective. The government has done something, and it's positive. We don't have a problem saying that what's done is positive. It has added flexibility, but more can be done. The Christian People's Party supports what is in the proposal, that more can be done. In order to help the Government on the road, we have supported the proposal to remove the date of cutting for cod quotas as well as to increase the percentage of what can be delivered to 30 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e202	The left is pleased that the Government in this matter has made a number of necessary changes to improve the quota flexibility of the sea fishing fleet, in the light of the proposal from the Right. The left suggests that the extensive regulatory framework under which the fishing industry operates has in many cases led to poor exploitation of available fish resources. It is also gratifying that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast will look at schemes such as quota banks and changes in the quota year. I am aware that making changes here may be in contrast to international agreements Norway has concluded, but if the changes in the allowance year and the introduction of an allowance bank scheme do not conflict with international agreements, the Left is in favour of such changes. The left-hander expects the Government to inform the Size in its own way when this is done. The left does not coincide with the rest of the opposition to cancel the intersection date and increase the rate that can be issued to 30 pst. in the case of cod fishing – this is because we believe that the cod is very vulnerable, and that the stock of cod has been very variable in recent years. To put in place arrangements that could lead to an additional overfishing of the cod and the extra truy the existence of the cod, my left is wrong, and we therefore stare the Government and Government Party at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e211	The Government is concerned that the regulation and structural arrangements of the fishing fleet facilitate the most efficient, rational and environmentally friendly fishing. Having assessed different solutions, I concluded that changing the random fishing system could help achieve this and improve quota flexibility. We therefore sent out on 18 September this year a proposal to simplify and improve the random fishing system for the sea fishing fleet, much in line with the proposals in Document No. The 8th proposal. The amendments were adopted on 17 October of this year and entered into force immediately. The amendments mean that the requirement for a three-year cooperation agreement to be concluded by a boat company to exploit the scheme is waived, that a boat company can cooperate with multi-boat carriers and vice versa, and that the vessel from which the transfer of allowances is carried out must no longer be withdrawn from other fishing activities. The date of entry into service of the random fishing system is removed, with the exception of cod quotas, because the Government considers that it is important to maintain at the end of the year for the supply of raw material to the agricultural industry on 1 October. These changes represent an improvement and simplification of the random fishing system that has been requested by the industry and which helps to make fishing more rational and profitable. The purpose is to avoid going on the last round of the season in order to take a small, remaining chance of the quota. Instead, this can be transferred to another boat. As a result, the total fishing effort for such residues of several vessels' allowances may become more rational. Similarly, the random fishing system will now have a certain impact on greenhouse gas emissions, and thus also an environmental benefit. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to point out that the regulatory system is based on the allocation of quotas by the fisheries authorities with the vessel allocated to the quota. There is a limit to the degree of flexibility we want for fishing quotas, because this flexibility also means increasing the degree of transferability of quotas. Therefore, the desire to facilitate further flexibility may be contrary to the basic principles of our fisheries policy. This should be borne in mind when discussing what appears on the surface as reliable proposals for additional flexibility. The overall political discussion on privatisation and negotiability should not lose its significance through ever-small changes that are being carried out without at any time taking up this overall political discussion. I have also taken note of the comments made by the Committee, and I can inform you that we have already introduced quota flexibility between the 2008 and 2009 regulatory years in the fisheries of Norwegian spring herring for the ring note and trawl groups. With regard to the Committee's comments on the change in the quota year, I will come back to this in an appropriate manner, as the Committee asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e228	I am pleased that the Government has made changes to this matter earlier. I guess that's good. Now, parts of the opposition have made a proposal to further improve the system. There we have also received support from FHL, Norway’s Fiskarlag and Innovation Norway, to name a few. So there's a broad desire in the industry to make these changes. So far, the Council of State was somewhat concerned with the argument in its statement not to make this change, but I can ask the question: why does the Council of State not listen any more to the industry and to the wishes of the industry and the organisations? Because they also think completely about fisheries policy and fisheries management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e237	In this case, the need for further flexibility must be weighed up against other considerations that we must also take into account in the fisheries policy. With regard to the opposition’s proposal to increase random fishing quotas from 20 pst. until 30 p.m., we believe that this is no longer about a random fishing system. The starting point for the random fishing system and the changes that the Government has made is that the remaining allowances should be taken in a light manner instead of being unfished, or instead of being taken at a very high cost in the form of both crowns and in the form of climate emissions. 30 pst. is one third of the quota. Then we are no longer talking about coincidences, but about increasing the negotiability in the purchase and sale of allowances. That direction does not want the Government and government parties to go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e244	We've already boasted of the government's new regulation, so we don't have to repeat it. Now there's the difference between the opposition and the position that's the theme, these 20 pst. and 30 pst. We heard instead that the Left argued that such an increase would lead to further overfishing, but I record that the Council of State here argues in another way, that 30 pst. is no longer a coincidence and conflicts with other important considerations. To the right, there is an important consideration that the industry is quite clear and united in this desire to increase flexibility. It might be interesting to hear the Council of State's perception of the practical consequences of increasing the share of random fishing from 20 pst. until 30 p.m., and a little bit about what other considerations the Council of State believes are so important that you cannot accept such a scheme as the whole industry wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e253	As I have just explained, the Government believes that 30 pst. does not refer to residues. It's actually about one third of the quota. Let me also comment on the discussion that has been around the intersection date on 1 October, and why we have chosen to keep it. This is because the fishing industry wants access to fresh fish throughout the year, and we want to ensure that fish come on land even during the autumn. When you talk about the fishing industry, you also have to listen to what the workers here are saying. The Marine Association has been concerned that increasing transferability, increasing the percentage from 20 to 30, means that the crew is at risk of losing lottery revenue. There is also a basis for the assessments made by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e262	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e280	As indicated in the Committee’s opinion, the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with other countries for 2008 and the fisheries agreements concluded in 2006 and 2007 are of an approximate political nature. However, I would like to make some comments on the Committee's position. Eighty p.m. Norwegian fishing is carried out on populations sharing with other countries. This requires, and will require, cooperation. In the North Sea, Norway manages fisheries resources with the EU. Norway and the EU are therefore working together to maintain and further develop good fisheries management. Cooperation with the EU has produced good results in many areas, including: in the fight against illegal fishing. At the same time, we face major challenges in the years to come. The situation of some North Sea populations is not what we want. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea — ICES — has again recommended the cessation of fishing for cod in the North Sea. The stock situation of cod in the North Sea is still serious, but there are still signs of some growth in the stock. Of the total quota, Norway has 17 pst. and the EU has 83 pst. One-sided management measures in the Norwegian zone will therefore have little effect on cod stocks in their entirety. This is why EU draft policy is very important in future negotiations. Drafting fish is a serious threat to sustainable management. Norway has a draft ban, while this draft practice is legal in EU waters. In Norway, fish taken from the sea shall be landed. On the other hand, the EU has a draft mandate. This implies that the fish that is caught by an EU fish, but for which it does not have a quota, or which is below the legal minimum size, must be thrown overboard. This summer, a foreign vessel was observed throwing out large quantities of fish caught in the Norwegian economic zone. The fish were thrown out as soon as the vessel left the Norwegian zone and entered the EU zone. The incident was documented by Coast Guard. Only in this case, more than 5,000 kg of fish were wasted. It is not only morally reprehensible to waste food in this way. It is also resource-disgusting. In addition, draft unregistered withdrawals lead to a poorer scientific basis for our joint management decisions. The events I have just described are illegal in Norwegian waters, but not in accordance with EU legislation. Norway cannot force foreign vessels to legislate when they stay outside our jurisdiction. But we can set conditions for those vessels that want to fish in Norwegian waters. We must therefore demand that all fish drawn in Norwegian waters be taken to land, regardless of the port used. I understand that the Government will now impose such conditions on anyone who wants a licence to fish in Norwegian waters, in other words, one will lose the license if this is not respected. Drafting is a particular problem for the North Sea community. I am therefore pleased that the Government in forthcoming negotiations with a high voice would argue Norway’s view of the EU draft mandate. Many suggest that this effort will subsequently also make an impression in the EU. Still investing in control work is a key to future management and a better extraction pattern both in the North Sea and in Skagerrak.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e306	I just want to make a few brief comments about the matter. The representative, Opbebøen Hansen, made a clear statement on the Committee's views. On one point, however, the Progress Party separates law from the Committee. It's about the problem of overfishing, or UUU fishing, as it's called. Combating this type of activity has been going on for several years and under several governments. There has been a targeted job, which gradually begins to produce positive results. But at the same time, it is true that overfishing and illegal activities have not ceased to exist. 2007 figure for Norwegian Arctic cod shows that there was an overfishing of 40 000 tonnes at an initial value of 800 million tonnes. kr. It's pretty big numbers, and the numbers for elevators are 21,000 tons. These are very uncertain numbers, and the estimates may be lower, but they may also be higher. It worries me. What we in the Progress Party have focused on is strengthening control at sea, at sea, where crime is committed. In this context, we believe that it is important to be present, visible and have effective and effective surveillance where crime is committed. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we have proposed strengthening Coast Guards by 350 million. kr. It's going to be dealt with later this week, and then we'll see what the result is, but I guess I don't have the very great hopes that it will be adopted, unfortunately. This means that those who commit this type of illegality have reasonable freedom of movement. I expect the Council of State to enter into UUU fishing, as it is called, as one of its central points. I would like to hear about the measures that the Government intends to take in 2009 to combat this overfishing further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e317	I would like to begin by stressing that sustainable resource management is a central objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct each year with other countries. I've read the Committee's attitude with interest. The Committee's comments show that there is broad agreement on the objectives we should pursue in these negotiations. I also note that the Committee points out that the work on illegal fishing is now producing good results. In the negotiations with Russia, the joint effort towards unreported fishing in the Barents Sea has been central for several years. Norway and Russia agreed on further measures to address the problem in the autumn. I am pleased that the work done by the Government since the fall of 2005 has led to concrete results. The overfishing in the Barents Sea is, according to the latest estimates, reduced by 60 pst. Thus, large amounts have been returned to Norwegian, Russian and other countries’ fishermen and the fishing industry and to Norwegian taxpayers. But we're not in the goal yet. In the 2009 budget, we are proposing further measures to combat illegalities. We are proposing to set aside money to follow up all the agreements we have concluded with other countries, and not least we are proposing to hire more inspectors at the Kaikant in Norway, because we need to be in order in our own house. It is important that, in further work, we have measures both on the sea and on the land, and that we continue to focus on international work, which is a key to solving this problem. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea now states that the important cod stock in the Barents Sea is managed in a sustainable manner and, as stated, that unreported fishing is significantly reduced. The Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission has therefore established a total Norwegian Arctic cod quota for 2009 of 525000 tonnes, which is an increase of 20 pst. in relation to 2008. Although this is a large quota increase, it will still provide the lowest fish mortality rate for this stock since 1991. In addition, taking into account that the stock of hake is in good condition and that in 2009 it can be re-opened for fishing on weights, it is a hot spot for Norwegian and Russian fishing industries during a turbulent economic period. I also think that we are working well on the control side with the European Union. Cooperation on fisheries with the EU on the resource side has produced results in many areas, but at the same time we face significant challenges. I see and hear that the committee is concerned about the draft issue. Of course, it's also the government. The development of fish is a serious threat to sustainable management. As you know, Norway has a draft ban, while practice is legal in EU waters. It has moral aspects, but it also leads to a large unreported withdrawal. This is a central theme during this year's quota negotiations with the EU, which is probably starting today. The Norwegian objective is to include a draft ban in the EU zone. I do not think that is realistic to put in place in the short term. That is why we are also working on finding solutions that can effectively reduce drafts during 2009. There we will work with the EU and the individual Member States to see what action can be taken. Before the autumn negotiations, we met with several Member States where drafts have been the central theme. It was also the theme of the meeting I had with EU Fisheries Commissioner Joe Borg last week. I believe that the EU position is turning around and that there is now an atmosphere there to reduce the issue of discards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e339	I am pleased that the Government has gradually taken a focus on overfishing in the Barents Sea and is following up on what previous governments and the Advance Party have paid great attention to. Now, however, as I said in my post, there is still a significant overfishing – 40,000 tonnes to a first-time value of nearly 1 billion kroner. There are huge numbers, and it's important to bring down that activity. I actually have three simple questions to the Council of State: Who is responsible for this overfishing? Where is this fish being traded? And with the government's budget proposal on Coast Guards, is there going to be more or is there going to be fewer sailing days?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e346	Firstly, I think it is interesting that the representative of Korsberg pays tribute to the efforts of previous governments in this area, because I must say that this did not lead to the great results. The results in this area have been achieved after the red-green government took over and put this on the map in negotiations with other countries and, not least, set aside resources to control both at sea and on land. Then I fully agree with the representative Korsberg's description that we are not in target. We have achieved significant results, but we are not in the target. That's why we can't relax either. Overfishing in the Barents Sea is carried out, inter alia: from Russian registered vessels. They also have vessels flying flags of convenience. Then I am concerned that we in Norway should not just sit and point to the others. Recently, we have also seen a significant increase in reviews also in Norway. This is something that we need to take seriously, and that is why we will strengthen control in Norway next year and restore the fish phone. So we use the tools we can to combat illegalities, both in the Norwegian economic zone and in the Barents Sea as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e357	I still maintain that there has been a significant job in combating overfishing before this government took over. But don't let it become the big topic of debate. The Council of State was not given the opportunity to answer my last question, whether there will be more or less sailing days at Coast Guard with the budget submitted. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e364	It is at least a fact that the government in the budget for next year is setting up a new civil protection vessel, a tugboat, which will release one of the coastguard vessels from that task, allowing the Coast Guard to spend more of its resources on sovereignty and resource monitoring. Then we're going to replace a coastguard vessel. The new vessels will be large vessels with good reach, with helicopters on board, and will have a completely different impact field from that of today's vessel. So it's going to be a strengthening of the Coast Guard in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e371	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e389	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e398	This is a proposal from the Progress Party. The setting is based on most parts, with slightly different degrees of comment. All lots except the Progress Party are behind this setting. I believe that the Progress Party itself will justify its position on the matter and its proposal. The number of applicants for protection varies from year to year. It's swinging. The reasons for the fluctuations are different. One reason is international conflicts. Major international conflicts result in an increase in the number of refugees. We know this. We know that the conflict in Iraq, the conflict in Afghanistan, the conflict in Somalia, etc. contribute to increasing the number of refugees in need of protection. We note this in Norway as well. Some of them apply to Norway for protection. We have a duty to accept them and assess whether they need protection. We have obligations to that under international agreements, and we have an obligation under our own law to give them shelter when they come and apply for protection. These are the formal things that oblige us to accept them properly. The large fluctuations in the number of applicants create problems in relation to the number of asylum recipients needed. We have a policy where we're trying to adjust the reception capacity according to the number of people coming. This means that when the number of applicants falls sharply, we will adjust the capacity afterwards, and once again a strong increase in the number of asylum seekers, we need increased capacity. This creates problems. There are several things that make this problematic. Firstly, it becomes problematic because we lose some competence when we build down asylum recipients as the fluctuations take place, and that is not good. We should reflect on that a little bit more. Is this a good way to organise that business? Although it fluctuates from year to year, we see that it is reasonably stable over a long period of time. So I think it would be appropriate to look at whether, in periods of some decline in demand, we should have an overcapacity just to take care of the competence. I think that the key to running the receptions in a good way and among other things. avoid conflicts, as we have seen in some municipalities, precisely those who work in these receptions have the necessary skills. I think that in many ways it's our big challenge to make sure that we have the right capacity, but at the same time that those who are going to do the tasks have the right skills. There's no answer. Accepting asylum seekers, giving them fair treatment and acting in accordance with international conventions and in accordance with our own law is a national responsibility, and it is a national responsibility that we do this properly. Therefore, we cannot leave this to the individual municipality – 430 municipalities or around it – and say that they should have a veto right against the establishment of a reception. We have commitments, and we have to take them seriously. It's a national responsibility to have the capacity we need. Therefore, this proposal is simply not possible to adopt, precisely because it is a national policy area. Finally, let me comment on the Right Commentary on the reception of competence. The right has its own comment where they address something they call the reception of competence. They have their own Document No. Eight proposals. I think that this proposal is very good, and it will be dealt with later on in a separate case. Let me just signal that I think that in this proposal there are many wise ideas, many sensible ideas, which we are going to take seriously and discuss in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e417	Norwegian asylum policy is completely out of control. In these days we experience a triple in the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. We are most likely to receive four times as many asylum seekers this year as Finland and Denmark make up. The reason, of course, is that we have a red-green government that conducts some of Europe's most liberal asylum policy. The so-called curtailment signaled by the Government at the beginning of September has obviously not worked. We are still expected to get around 15 000 asylum seekers to Norway in the current year, and it is added to the same arrival to the next year. This is a government that obviously has no means to deal with the massive influx to Norway today. But it is not useful to hide behind international conventions, international agreements, because it is fully possible to pursue a policy where we limit asylum immigration to Norway, as many other countries actually do within the agreements, conventions, Norway is bound by. What this government has actually done is move the problems. When you do not take national responsibility for asylum policy at the top level, you simply run the issue to Norwegian municipalities. For this reason, for the past six months, we have seen a massive debate among local politicians and among citizens in a number of Norwegian municipalities that have received asylum receptions step down their heads – against their own will. It is just to mention municipalities such as Bømlo, Overhalla, Nord-Aurdal, Stage, Eidsberg, Bremen, Hemsedal, Bergen, Rollag, Skien, Ørskog, Skiptvedt, Ulstein etc. etc. Even I came from Troms County, where they were informed about the news, at the NRK Evening News, that they would receive an asylum reception with them after every 130 reception places in the municipality of Harstad. The same thing happened to Tromsø and a number of other municipalities. Thus, there was no dialogue at all with the various municipalities receiving asylum in their territory, prior to a decision. This testifies to a lack of respect for local democracy, a lack of respect for the fact that local politicians actually have a certain degree of competence to assess what is manageable in their own community. It has been decided to run completely over because the State at the UDI has been so pressured to put in place new reception places that they have only run over Norwegian municipalities. The majority in the view that this is really, as I understand the comment, impractical, it would be a little difficult, a little complicated, if the municipalities were to make the decision themselves – actually have a veto – as we want. That would be impractical! Well, democracy is not just practical. In fact, if you want to listen to opinions, you have to let local politicians come to their positions, you have to give them time and opportunity to do so, and then you also accept the decisions that are coming. In this respect, it is not useful to show that there has been an increase in the subsidies that accompany the country when asylum-seekers are established, because a number of municipalities have proved by their own examples that they are not fully compensated for the costs of an asylum-seeker. Kväfjord Municipality, for example, has proven with a calculation that only in the small municipality they experience a loss of 1 million each year. kr because they are now receiving an increase in the reception of asylum in their municipality. The obvious solution has been sketched all along by the Advance Party. We want us to establish closed receptions, use the detention of asylum seekers while processing the application. If we had, this wouldn't have been a problem, and then we wouldn't have had this debate in Stortinget. But I hope at least that you take into account that there are local politicians out there, in a situation where we have open reception, who feel that they are completely overrun by the UDI in the process. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e438	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e441	I refer you to the speech by the rapporteur of the case first, and I agree with him on what he says about the need for competence in asylum recipients, the need to adapt the capacity and the national responsibility we have for accommodation. So the right-hand side is in the majority decision, and we disagree with the proposers for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that we have to have a reception capacity that is always best suited to the need that exists. We know that the influx of asylum to Norway has gone on waves, and the number of asylum seekers in the country will vary, not only because of international conditions, but also because of the policy pursued at all times at national level. It is necessary to take account of the need to adapt the reception capacity. That's what the model we've had since Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. It is and will still make sense to assume that 80 pst. of the fixed transit points and 90 pst. of the permanent regular spaces used at all times. It gives a little bit of flexibility. It is appropriate to use Community funds to reduce capacity if the need is reduced. So one has to accept rapid reconstruction if the need is to increase suddenly, as we have been exposed to now in 2008. However, it is important for people's understanding and acceptance by the Asylum Institute that foreign policy is well managed, and today's situation, with a tripling of the number of asylum seekers to Norway, cannot be explained simply by international circumstances. In Europe, Norway has had the largest increase in the number of asylum seekers, and UDI Director Ida Børresen also wrote in a chronicle in the Newspaper on 21 May: ‘This is a development that has not been easy to predict since there has been no change in the countries of origin in question, which was due to a large increase right now.’ The policy of the red-green government up to the summer of 2008 has made it easier both to stay in Norway and, in particular, to believe that it is easier to stay in Norway than in other comparable countries. Where the Bondevik government tightened in, the Stoltenberg government released it again, and these signals quickly went out into the world. Right-wing caution against pursuing a policy that is more liberal than the policy of our neighbouring countries. It is a fact that both Sweden and Denmark have tightened up their asylum policy, like other European countries, while Norway has been moving in the opposite direction for three years. The government also said in the revised national budget that Norway has a more liberal policy now than before. On the right, we have voted against, and we have made other proposals, of course in vain. Nevertheless, fortunately, we see that the Government has gradually met us and followed up our views and suggestions. However, this case is an example of what could have been avoided if the Government had more consistently followed up the previous government policy rather than creating a false impression of asylum seekers’ opportunities in Norway. I would like to stress that Norway is obliged by international agreements to accept and accommodate all asylum seekers who come to the country. It is directly premature for the Progress Party to mix the cards in this case by addressing the EU Return Directive and the possibilities of internalising asylum recipients for up to 18 months. It is not these asylum seekers that this matter is about. It is also important for asylum seekers who are refused their applications to be transported quickly – there is no doubt about that. But that's a different discussion than what today's debate is about. To give municipalities the right to veto the establishment of asylum recipients does not seem to be a proper solution to the great need for accommodation we now have. I still understand the debate. Norwegian asylum policy and the situation of asylum recipients have naturally marked the media debate throughout the summer and much of this autumn, and not least municipal. For reasons of government policy, Norway has not been able to accept all those entitled to stay in a good way. The ambitions must be greater than what Secretary of State Libe Rieber-Mohn wrote in an article in Dagbladet on 14 August. It said, "We can get a roof over the head of everyone who comes." I have no doubt that the UDI is working and still working on blasts, because the authorities are under a strong pressure, and the forecasts will be a triple – 15 000 asylum seekers – still. Now asylum reception is being established in the municipalities around the country, and many rapporteurs are despairing and feeling overwhelmed by the UDI. That is where I agree with the Advancement Party. Here, dialogue with the municipalities – I see, President, that the clock is going too fast – must be much better than what it is. And since the clock goes so fast, President, I will already draw myself to a three-minute post!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e461	We're going to check the clock, if there's anything wrong with it!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e464	In fact, in respect of the Parliament's pulpit, one should be able to expect and demand a higher level of precision from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen than what he says in his speech. Firstly, it is the claim that Norwegian asylum policy is completely out of control, which does not match reality, and which is only, of course, entirely conscious of the Progress Party, used as a means to scare people up and to create the impression that here the authorities do not have any overview or control. A few days ago, we were able to read in the newspaper that after the government has launched its tightening measures, the registered decline has been on it for the Workers' Party magic numbers 36.9 pst. We see from the Progress Party a touching concern for local democracy. Usually when we hear representatives of the Progress Party talk about this field, it's about government governance, state overgovernment of the municipalities, earmarked grants, etc. Had it been so that the Progress Party was actually concerned with local democracy, I think we would have seen it in several areas. But I think there's something else behind it. We have, as many people have been involved, an international responsibility to accommodate asylum seekers and actually deal with their applications. This is going on in waves, and it is always demanding to deal with both great ups and great downs. What is important is that the State assumes its responsibilities to cover the costs incurred by the municipalities as a result of taking international and national responsibility. There I will show that the host municipality grant includes, among other things: in 2008, increased in two stages, first by increasing the grants of municipalities which have received ad hoc units and units for lone minors, and then by making a general increase for all host municipalities in the revised national budget. Thus, after the revision of the national budget, the government covers the agreed expenditure through the calculation committee. Furthermore, it is important to have a good dialogue with KS if there are to be other costs that the State does not fully cover, and you have a good dialogue and contact with KS. It is true that the vast majority of municipalities are in favour of establishing reception. You can see that where you've done it, it's pretty much a good ring effect. But then, of course, it's important to have a good dialogue between the UDI, the state and the municipalities. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of poor contact, where municipalities feel that they are at risk of establishing reception at the top of their head. We have also seen examples that people who were initially positive about establishing reception have become negative as a result of how the UDI has behaved. It has to be cleaned up, and I am therefore happy that the Council of State has been clear about it. In addition, we have seen examples of operators making promises to municipalities about both cooperation and good ring-effects that they have not followed up. There should be control procedures in relation to the promises made by operators – that they actually follow up on what they promise. So Per-Willy Amundsen claims, among other things, that municipalities in my home state of Nord-Trøndelag – Levanger and Overhalla – have been established to receive their heads and that they were only informed through the media, which is wrong. Operators have applied to the UDI to establish reception in municipalities, but the local government in both Levanger and Overhalla was critical of this, mainly because they needed more time to investigate the consequences it had in terms of increased expenditure. The result was that the operators made their application in both of these municipalities, which shows that local democracy actually works, and that it is actually such that local authorities have a significant impact on whether or not to establish reception in municipalities. Then, within five years, until 2013, the Progress Party proposes to reduce the expenditure in this field from DKK 8.5 billion to approx. DKr 1.2 billion. Then they forget the fact that 40 pst. protection is needed by those who are currently coming and seeking asylum. It is proof that this is a matter that has never been a matter of municipal autonomy. It shows that the Progress Party is not interested in helping people who need protection. Because with their arrangements, many who need protection have to be rejected. The attitude of the Progress Party is therefore irresponsible, and I am afraid that it will only contribute to greater conflict, both between state and local authorities and with asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e481	The proponents of the Progress Party therefore believe that the Government and the UDI are overrun by local democracy with the location of new asylum recipients, and that such reception has a major impact on the ability of local communities and local communities to give priority to school and care for the elderly. They therefore propose that the UDI be instructed to respect the local local local government in matters relating to the establishment of asylum-seekers, in order to give local authorities the right to veto in practice. More specifically, they do not address how this can be done in practice, nor the consequences of such a practice. I will, as the representative before me, address this with the overrun of local democracy, because according to the Municipal Report of 23 October, the party president of the Progress Party is calling for the wing clipping of municipal politicians. We can read that Siv Jensen promises that the Progress Party will take power and tasks from local politicians and bureaucrats if the party moves into the government offices for next year. And then they ask what local politicians are going to decide in addition to vetoing the establishment of asylum recipients. Back to the proposal: the proposers point out that municipalities with asylum recipients receive significant additional costs that are not covered by the State. This issue was addressed in the setting of the municipality proposal for 2008 and has been followed up to a certain extent in retrospect. I agree with the proposers that the municipalities have to cover the costs of having asylum recipients in the municipality, and note that there is some disagreement about this after the last adjustments. I expect the Council of State to be able to provide figures confirming that the majority comment from the municipal proposition has been followed up. The rapporteurs, in their observations in their position, state that they note that the majority of the Committee chooses to have a relatively unbalanced relationship with established facts and that they wish to point out a number of factual errors in the comments of the majority. They continue to write that the EU has opened up the detention of asylum seekers for up to 18 months. I am not familiar with the directive on asylum seekers in general, but asylum seekers who have been refused their applications and immigrants who do not have valid residence documents. I expect that the proposers may be helpful in correcting me if what I say is wrong. In fact, it is aspects of this directive that will grant asylum seekers in Norway rights that they do not currently have, including those relating to asylum seekers. this relates to access to free legal aid. In addition, the Directive limits a five-year ban on entry after expulsion. Norwegian practice has been that deportees receive a more permanent entry ban. In my view, these changes are a step in the right direction, but will the representatives of the Progress Party also support this part of the Directive? President, I wonder if the clock is really wrong, because it's been too fast. I have to draw myself into a tree minute right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e496	It's probably not where the fault lies. The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e499	The left is very concerned with the fundamental human rights. One of them is the right to apply for asylum. We have recently made proposals to legislate on this right. For us, politics is about taking into account the individual and giving everyone a chance. This is not least true in relation to people on the run. The left is also concerned with local democracy and believes that both common sense and good attitudes are evenly distributed in the country. Therefore, all issues of importance for people and communities need to be discussed in transparency, and decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level of the population. When the need to accept asylum seekers meets the concerns of communities that may not want to accept them or do not think they have the capacity to accept them, it must be acted wisely, not least from those authorities that have the overall responsibility for asylum policy. We've seen many good examples of that, but also some where greater wisdom could have been shown. But for the Left, the right to veto is an impossibility in matters relating to human rights. It's about a basic propriety like society and values we don't play with. We have government policies in this area, and it can be implemented with reason and flexibility in close cooperation with the municipalities, as the majority has written in the vote. Of course, this also applies to the economic aspects of the case. The municipalities are not the ones to pay for the receipts. I feel that the majority in this Chamber, despite clear shades of view on some aspects of immigration and refugee policy, have a common human approach to this matter. It's far from being naive. It's basically human, and that's where the political division goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e511	I believe that the Progress Party, through its proposal in this matter, is seeing through its lack of understanding of important tasks in society and is hiding behind the desire to strengthen local democracy in this proposal to introduce municipal veto rights against the establishment of asylum recipients. The central party agrees with the majority of the comments and insists that accommodation for asylum seekers is a national responsibility and that we should accept people in need of protection and implement application procedures where legal certainty is ensured. This is a public task for which we all have to take responsibility, a public task in line with school and care for the elderly. However, it is known that many unknown factors in terms of both number, age, economy and integration make this public task difficult in relation to other tasks. The centre party believes it is absolutely important to recognise that some municipalities and local communities can experience it as a challenge to establish an asylum reception in their municipality and often at short notice. It is important that such processes take into account the needs of local and local authorities for information and the challenges that the municipality may face in establishing a good service provision for the residents of the reception. Therefore, improved communication procedures between operators and municipalities are also working and improved financial conditions are made available to municipalities. The central party believes that municipalities exist for people and for asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e520	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a representative, and that the majority underlines our international and national obligations to accept asylum seekers and to ensure that asylum seekers are properly accommodated while their applications for asylum are pending. Norway has signed the Refugee Convention. This means that we must assess all applications for asylum. That assessment shall be carried out as quickly and effectively as possible, while ensuring the legal certainty of the applicant in a satisfactory manner. While the application is being processed, the applicant has a legal right to accommodation. Granting individual municipalities the right to veto the establishment of asylum recipients can lead to that we cannot offer accommodation in a reception. However, no matter how the accommodation offer is organised, applicants must be in a municipality while the application is being processed. As pointed out by the majority of the Committee, the State covers the average expenditure of the municipalities on child protection, administration, health and interpretation through the so-called host municipality grant. In addition, municipalities receive tax income and more jobs. Studies also show that a clear majority of Norwegian municipalities with reception are positive for receiving in their municipalities and that this results in positive ring-effects in the municipality. In the same way as the majority of the Committee, I also believe that it is positive that several municipalities are now notifying themselves as potential operators for reception. Several municipal operators provide a good opportunity to coordinate the work of reception and residence and to transfer knowledge and experience between those who work with reception and those who work with housing and integration in the municipalities. UDI has criticised the fact that the municipalities have been informed about potential reception in their municipality. I myself have discussed this both with representatives of the KS and several individual municipalities. I have a great deal of understanding of the needs of the municipalities to be informed as soon as possible and to be kept up to date on plans for reception in their municipality. Of course, I have also taken this up with UDI, who has assured me that the procedures have now changed. Those who offer the establishment and operation of a reception must state and document in their offer that they have informed the municipality of their plans. Dialogue and cooperation between the operator and the host municipality shall be one of the criteria by which the UDI determines with whom they contract. Finally, I would like to stress that information, dialogue and cooperation must be the answer, not the veto. A municipal veto doesn't solve any problems, but creates some new ones. Only through good cooperation between the state, the municipalities and the voluntary sector can we solve the challenges we are about to face. President, it's totally wrong that the clock is going wrong. I have two minutes for good, I, actually!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e537	Yes! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e542	I record that the Council of State is trying to emphasise the importance of dialogue, that self-criticism has apparently been taken, and that the UDI has been told to act a little more in dialogue with the municipalities affected by the establishment of asylum recipients. But I can't really see that UDI is doing this. Just to take an example – a completely new, fresh example – from Skrölsvik on Senja in Troms, Tranøy municipality, otherwise ruled by the same party as the councillors belong to. There, a dialogue was held and said that 40 asylum seekers were willing to be accepted, but despite that UDI chooses to go in and out of control. They create a 100-place reception in a building where 90 people live. So there will be more asylum seekers in this building than there are permanent residents. It is clear that there will be great consequences for this municipality and for this area. Does the Council of State consider this to be a matter of dialogue with the municipalities and respect for the decisions they make there, or is self-criticism in dealing with the establishment of asylum-seekers in Skrölsvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e549	This only proves that the representative was on the ground in his main post, where he gave the impression that there was no dialogue with the municipalities, and that the municipalities were not notified. It is wrong, and it is confirmed by the representative here. Just after I took over as the Council of State here, I had my first meeting with UDI on the situation in the immigration sector and in particular the asylum sector. One of the first things I asked them to do was to make sure that they put in their tender procedures that tenders should not be processed if the municipality is not informed. It's now followed up. What the representative says proves that it's been followed up. But that doesn't mean that each municipality decides how many places it should be in a given reception. That means there should be better dialogue with the municipalities than it was before. I myself have experience of this, because I have been rapporteur in a municipality where it was established. I was at the time annoyed by the way UDI did it, and therefore I have now made sure that UDI has new routines. It should soon be brought with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e558	It is important for the Right to pursue a humane, fair and consistent asylum policy. The government's internal disagreement in the field of asylum has not exactly given us a good picture of Norwegian policy. But this summer, the government went out with 13 proposals for tightening up the field. To what extent has the Government now implemented and implemented these proposals, and what is the status?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e563	As the representative Holmberg quite rightly says, there were 13 proposals. Some of the proposals we can deal with by giving an instruction; they are being implemented now. Some of the proposals require regulatory changes, are to be consulted and, following a legal timetable for progress, are likely to be implemented in March to April, after the consultation round has been completed. One of the proposals requires any legislative change, and it takes a little longer. However, we aim to present it to the Stortinget so that it can be finalised in the spring 2009 session.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e568	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Council of State answers as he does in this case, that he rejects the need for some veto right and highlights the importance of good dialogue. I think it's a potential for getting that dialogue even better, so that we can now work together on services for the residents of asylum recipients. In my post, which was a short one, I came to the conclusion that the municipality had to cover its costs. I would like to repeat the question from the post: can the Council of State assure us that a person has a good dialogue with the KS and with the municipalities to cover the real costs it entails for a municipality to have an asylum reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e575	Yes, I can assure you. This is a cooperation agreement that KS has with the State, where both the IMDi and the UDI are important. The residence component is also important, but not mentioned in current Document No. Eight proposals. So this is good dialogue. At the meeting I referred to, where I asked UDI to make sure that the tendering procedures were changed, KS was present. I have received good feedback from the KS and have also registered that the board of KS, with a very cross-political composition, has also not promoted any claim that there should be a veto right for the municipalities, as today's Document No. Eight proposals are being discussed. So yes, I can assure the representative that we have good dialogue with the KS. In addition to what was done on the tender page after the review we had this summer, the IMDi, UDI and KS have also contributed together to better information on the situation of all municipalities in Norway in order to be prepared for tenders to be submitted by a tenderer in their municipality, in which case they will be briefed as soon as possible. Those information procedures have also been improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e584	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e589	I feel this proposal, that municipalities should have a veto when setting up asylum recipients, as a demand from our local politicians. Better cooperation between the State and the municipalities is necessary in order to ensure greater influence for municipalities in the establishment of reception, in order to enable municipalities to have an influence on the establishment of reception and to influence the design of operations. This is also something KS believes is important. KS says that there must be cooperation and dialogue between the UDI, the State and the municipalities, and that the municipalities must be in agreement with and agree to the establishment of reception in the municipalities. The establishment of decentralised receptions can contribute to increased housing prices and difficulties in finding housing for other applicants for housing in many municipalities. The pressure on the housing market may also lead to a reduction in housing. The Progress Party also agrees with the KS, which believes that decentralised reception should not be established in areas with a pressurised housing market. In Stavanger, there is skepticism about the establishment of asylum recipients, and the councillor points out that an asylum reception with room for 150 asylum seekers will strengthen the pressure on the already heavily pressed services of the municipality. The establishment of asylum-seekers in Olden, Innvik and Loen in Sogn and Fjordane has also aroused strong reactions, and the population has collected signatures against asylum-seekers. Bremander and Aurland municipalities are also sceptical about reception and want to have a hand on the steering wheel if possible. In the Ballangen municipality of Nordland, 800 people have signed a protest against the establishment of an asylum reception, according to the future newspaper. It is important that Kommune-Norge itself be involved and decide whether to establish asylum reception facilities in the municipalities. It is one of the fundamental principles of local democracy. Where is the Center Party in this case? It's a party that usually talks about local politicians, but it's often only rhetoric we hear from that party a day. Vetorett means that you have faith in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e611	I think this debate requires that we look a little bit closer at the municipalities, because it is those who know the great increase in the body, and it is those who notice that the authorities have been under a strong pressure this year. The forecasts have so far been that there will be about 15 000 asylum seekers, i.e. three times as many as last year and year before. Before the summer UDI placed asylum seekers in tent camps, asylum recipients are now established in municipalities around the country. It is understandable in the fast process which took place during some summer months that many rapporteurs felt frustrated and overwhelmed by the UDI. I don't think we should underestimate it. There is an urgent need for reception facilities, and local authorities are therefore facing major challenges. One thing is the location in the municipality, we need to understand that. Other things are that when so many new asylum seekers reach a municipality, policy must take this into account, not least in terms of transferring resources to municipalities. It's also been done, but it might be to go a little far to say that it's fully funded. Host municipalities have obligations in respect of both kindergarten, school and health services for residents. Once asylum seekers arrive, offers must be quickly put in place. Although the life of an asylum recipient is temporary, at least for 60 p.m., the children should attend school and the sick should have health services. Norwegian training and other activities shall be organised. All of this, in fact, makes great demands on the municipalities that have received challenges from the UDI this year and asylum seekers. In most of the cases, I'm sure you've done well, but I'm sure you're not going to be surprised that in some municipalities it hasn't been painless. In my home municipality, Skien, there was a decentralised reception in the center. It did not go without pain, and I understand that the working party rapporteur and the municipality felt overwhelmed and exposed to poor information and dialogue with the UDI. But there are also examples of the opposite. Right-wing rapporteur Jonni Solsvik in Andøy Municipality has had a constructive and good dialogue with UDI, and that is probably the case for most municipalities. Then I am pleased that the rapporteur in the debate was positive and talked a lot about the importance of the competence of asylum recipients. Then I just want to finish by saying that the Right now has proposed a further development of the reception system we have today, a further development that will involve some specialized receptions of competence, to the joy of the residents there and to the benefit of the environment. I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e622	First I have to comment on what was said about Stavanger. One of the mottos of the Capital of Culture Year is ‘Open Port’. Stavanger wants to be an international city open to immigration and asylum recipients. A large majority of the politicians in Stavanger are positive to asylum recipients in the municipality. I would like to have said that, because it was given the impression of something else. Or I would like to correct and say: the local politicians from the Progress Party are negative, but the large majority in Stavanger are very positive about the establishment of asylum recipients – in a city that is under pressure on the housing market, but that has found suitable premises for a successful project with asylum recipients. That's also important to say. With regard to the housing situation, there is a challenge for the whole country. In some areas there is a lack of housing, but very often there is asylum reception in already existing housing stock. For example, in my own municipality, Sandnes, it is a closed psychiatric hospital that is receiving asylum. There is no pressure on the housing market in Sandnes that there is an asylum reception in the municipality. This debate has shown that there is a broad majority to say no to this proposal by the Progress Party. I'm glad. What I hope can be a positive result of this debate is that there will be an enhanced dialogue between the UDI and the municipalities with a view to good cooperation. There is a high potential for improvement in the provision of welfare services for those living in reception centres. If a few people want better training and health care, it is very important that there is a good relationship between the individual reception and the municipality in which it is located. It is also important that you can set up and close reception facilities in line with the need for reception facilities; others have been there before me. But just because you have to do it, it's important that you have good dialogue with the municipalities. Finally, many municipalities take a positive view of establishing reception. When you get a debate about the right to veto, you would think it was a problem you got. Fortunately, a great many municipalities say yes, we are ready to create jobs and integrate new residents, and we want both asylum recipients and the settlement of refugees in our municipality. One must not create the impression that there is a problem that there are new residents in many of the Norwegian municipalities. On the contrary, many municipalities, fortunately, want both immigrants and others to be warmly welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e635	I'm a little uncertain about whether the Progress Party posts deserve a comment. Nevertheless, I feel that I have to do it, precisely because of the language – the way they communicate. Through the language, we create images. That's the way we have to create images to each other. The representative Amundsen began his intervention in talking about massive inflows and massive debate. These are not the actual conditions. There has been an increase in the number of asylum seekers – that is correct – compared to what we agreed when we made the budget. But if we compare it to previous years, it's pretty much the same level. So talking about massive influx is going to be completely wrong. But I understand the point of doing that. It's to create a picture out there among the people most. Then there was also a massive debate. That some municipalities have felt overrun, yes, well, and that some municipalities have been negative, yes, well. But that there has been some massive debate out there, where the municipalities have been negative, I cannot understand. So to some of the things that the Progress Party writes in its comment. They write that the majority's comments contain factual errors. Sometimes I wonder if the Progress Party understands the language. In what we write, there are a few facts. We refer to international conventions, and we refer to section 41 of the law. We refer to surveys and represent numbers, and from that we draw some conclusions that of course there may be political disagreement. But the facts are there. We're just reproducing the results. And then you can question the value of a bunch of studies. But what comes out is the facts, and then we draw some conclusions. I do not think the Progress Party has understood the difference between facts and political analyses and assessments. We can only regret that. But it's a little unfortunate when this is made in a note. Then you can say that it's itself they reveal, not the others. It is good enough for them to reveal their own lack of knowledge and understanding in the Norwegian language. Finally, it is important that there is dialogue between municipalities and government authorities. I feel that it is also largely a good dialogue. But sometimes we may need something to happen quickly, precisely because the number of asylum seekers is now greater than we expected. Then some municipalities can feel this as an overrun, and that is not good. But basically I feel that it's a good dialogue, and it's going to go on. Then we have some national targets, and if the national targets conflict with the local self-government, we have to say, OK, here we have to put the places that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e644	I record that the representative Rikvam is very concerned about semantics. I have to admit that in my post I was a little bit more concerned with mathematics. When we talk about a massive increase, I think that a triple of the number of asylum arrivals compared to what was agreed in the 2008 state budget should be referred to as a massive increase. When we have a situation where Norway is the country in Europe that accepts most asylum seekers per. population, there is a massive increase. We have had the fastest increase in the world in the number of asylum arrivals. It's massive. I do not think any further Norwegian training from SV is necessary. Then it is pointed out that the Progress Party uses the word ‘facts’ in its comments. Yes, we use the word facts in references to some polls and surveys that have been made. For, like the Council of State, the representative refers to a study among the municipalities of the country, asking the rapporteurs in these municipalities about their attitude towards the establishment of asylum-seekers. With a red-green majority of rapporteurs, there is clearly a red-green response – yes. It's that simple. But it's not the population of these municipalities that's kind of asked. This also refers to the intervention by the Council of State. I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State on a direct question chooses not to answer. In my question to the Council of State, I referred to Skrolsvik, the municipality of Tranøy, at Senja, where in a building with 90 inhabitants, 100 asylum reception places are now established. It's dramatic for a small village. Although you try to problem that debate and make various accusations, it is actually that it has consequences for the people who live in this municipality. I think it's a little arrogant when you first leave to answer a direct question if you think this is a decent way to deal with this. I challenge the Council of State to take the floor and to explain whether it is really a good way to deal with Norwegian asylum recipients, to set up an asylum reception with 100 residents in a town where 90 people live – and despite the fact that the municipality has made a clear statement on it. This refers to the directive of the European Union, which is now under way. As Bjørg Tørresdal correctly says, it is about internalising so-called IDless asylum seekers and asylum seekers to leave. It is entirely in line with the policies of the Progress Party. 95 pst. by all those who come to Norway and seek asylum are without ID. I cannot imagine anything other than that you will be able to place very many very quickly in closed reception according to EU rules. It is not that we are in favour of the whole directive, but I say that there are others in Europe who present solutions that are very similar to the policies of the Progress Party, whereas this government is not at all willing to look at new measures to do something to reduce asylum immigration to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e658	To contact the representative Amundsen first, I commented on the fact that Amundsen claims that there is no contact with the municipalities. It is a fact that in Skrolsvik it has been. That's the fact I pointed out. Whether the size of that reception is correct is a professional assessment I do not attend on a daily basis. I agree that there is a lot of noise in a building with 90 people, but that does not mean that there has been no contact with the municipality. But the reception has grown larger than the municipality wanted. So that municipality has been notified and has been in dialogue with the UDI. That's my main point. Nor is it the case that the board of KS – and, as far as I know, the members of the board of directors of Amundsen’s own party – require that it be possible for the municipalities to say no, i.e. have veto rights. I really took the word to comment on the post from, among other things. Holmberg. The ski is a very good example of a dilemma we're up against. Decentralized reception often works very well. In particular, it works well for those who are subsequently granted a residence permit in Norway and are getting to work early on integration. But decentralised reception can be a dilemma in a situation where there is pressure in the housing market, and that's what was the situation. The rapporteur in Skien, Rolf Erling Andersen, was one of those who were present at that meeting where I got the signals that were the basis for the signals that I subsequently gave to UDI, starting from that dilemma. Here we are talking about a municipality that was positive to reception, but wanted to have influence over the device and over the choice of the model that the tenderer had submitted. It shows a dilemma. In terms of competence, I fully agree that this is important. This is why we have special solutions, such as: that child protection is the responsibility of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. In next year's state budget, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom, we are putting in place additional measures for lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. We've reinforced the efforts of the reinforced departments, which are a special form of reception, and then we have a waiting reception, which is also a special type of reception. So we have some special types of reception. I am prepared to discuss further types of reception adapted to those asylum seekers who actually come to Norway. It must be an ongoing debate in which we agree that quality is important. So finally, in terms of the number of arrivals, the representative Amundsen has at least been out in the media saying – and he has repeated it here – that the government has no control. Well, that's just the point, the government has control. That's possible that's why the representative Amundsen gets a little despair, because he loses some of the kick-offs in the public debate. What we've said is that if we don't put in cautious measures to tighten up so that there will be fewer of those who don't get to stay in Norway, the number will increase beyond 15 000. That's why we've put these measures in place. These are the figures on which the State budget is based and which led to the adjustments made in the year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e669	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e672	We have just witnessed a reasonably eye-catching opinion from the Council of State, where he actually says that it is the government's misguided and wanted policy that 15 000 asylum seekers should be sent to Norway every year. That is the consequence of the Council of State's statement of this pulpit today. We get 15,000 this year, and that's the number he's operating on next year's budget. I interpret it as meaning that the so-called – I repeat, the so-called – asylum curtailment to which the Government has put in place was only in order that the number should not exceed 15 000. In that case, we have some big challenges ahead of us. In reality, a completely different immigration policy has been introduced than that pursued by previous governments, with a constant, long-term high number of asylum arrivals – 15 000 – every year. In that case, it's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e677	I have to be allowed to say that it is directly alarming to hear how a representative of a magnificence stands and distorts what I say from the Spokesman's Chair, that it is, as it were, the Government's wish that the number of arrivals should increase to 15 000. It's, if I'm allowed to say that, President -- at least I say it -- all over the world. What is real is that when the number of arrivals forecast rises, in line with the rules for realistic budgeting, we shall base the number in the budget. We have done so, by providing additional appropriations on the basis of the forecasts available in 2008. Then we have put in the same number – which is at that point, from the point of view of realistic budgeting – for 2009. With regard to the government's tightening measures: the amundsen referred instead to disagreement in the government, but there was a consensus in the government that we needed some tightening measures to stabilize and end the growth of the number of arrivals. This is why the Government introduced 13 measures, which we believe is a basis for not having to increase the estimate in addition to the estimate that was there. It is not that the government sits and decides that next year we should be surprised to suggest that we should include 15 000 asylum seekers. There is a world-wide situation and assessments between countries for which there are asylum arrivals, which determine that number. Then we deal with it, and then we put budgets out of the forecasts we have -- not based on Amundsen's various wishes about what the world really should look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e686	The Council of State pointed out, quite correctly, that the designation of other representatives as ‘on earth’ is not parliamentary language. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e706	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e724	In May 2003 Stortinget St.meld. No 14 for 2002–2003 on the coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Services. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, indicated that: ‘The Social Committee, when dealing with a number of welfare reforms, has expressed concern that people with a need for assistance are not being adequately assisted’. They pointed out that this was the basis for the unanimous adoption by the Stortinge in the course of the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2001 of the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the issue of a single establishment for the social security, social security and social security systems and to present the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner during 2002.’ The government of Bondevik had in St.meld. No 14 did not follow up the Storting decision on an overall establishment which would also cover social services, and the above-mentioned majority decided to send the case back and ask for a new case for different models for a joint establishment. In St. prp. No 46 for 2004–2005 the case was brought back to Stortinget, and an overall committee decided to introduce New Labour and Welfare Management – popularly called Nav. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party had then gone away from the desire for an overall establishment, and only the Advance Party still complies with this requirement. The Labour and Welfare Administration Act came in Ot.prp. No 47 for 2005–2006 and was treated in Odelstinget in June 2006. The need for a welfare reform was based on better organisation of the instrument to achieve more comprehensive and efficient management of labour and welfare and to address the ‘casting ball’ problem that hit many of the users. The Committee underlined the need to: S. No 198 for 2004–2005 that the proposal for a welfare reform was primarily an organisational reform to meet the needs of users. The Committee was also concerned that the new agency should be able to ‘take rapid action in labour market policy’ and that they ‘expected an organisation which does not impede rapid migration’. In the opinion of the Committee, a main objective of organisational reform had to be to aim at more user-friendly, coordinated and efficient welfare management. Another objective was to ensure more adapted services for those who cannot, or who to a very limited extent, participate in active work. The Committee was concerned that persons who had fallen out of the labour market for various reasons or had not entered the labour market would meet a public service offer which could provide assistance quickly and individually, and that persons who, for some reason or another, did not have income from their own work would be guaranteed a secure economic foundation. It is natural that a combination of two state institutions with different cultures, objectives and management tools imposes great requirements for both planning and implementation. It was therefore the Stortinge’s premise that there was a need to invest heavily in common empowerment and cultural building and sufficient resources for its implementation. The last one has been followed up a long time ago, and the Stortinget has only granted 100 million in the last few months. additional to the implementation of the reform. One of the major prerequisites for the reform was that good and well-adapted individual services should be provided, speedily cleared and prompt action should be taken and safe financial arrangements should be ensured. Another important premise was that users should be assured one place to turn when needed for welfare services, and that users should be offered a comprehensive clarification and a fixed contact person to assist with guidance and follow-up. In short, the aim was to create more user-friendly labour and welfare management than the one that Aetat and social security offices could create individually. There are too many signs today that the main objectives of the welfare reform will not be achieved. Section 1 of the Labour and Welfare Administration Act states: ‘The management of labour and welfare shall meet the individual with respect, contribute to social and economic security and promote transition to work and active activities.’;» It also states that Nav should be adapted to individual needs. We are constantly receiving enquiries and reading in the paper that people feel badly treated by Nav. They are not treated with respect. They still have to go from one office to another, waiting time is long, benefits are ended before new decisions are taken, people are referred to the social office, and no one seems to have got a fixed contact person, as the Storting intention was. As far as I can see, Nav now has a general trial period of eight months. I receive many enquiries from users who have been informed that e.g. the rehabilitation allowance period has expired and that it will take many months to process the application for disability benefit or temporary disability benefit. The fact that the user does not have the means to manage without income for eight months only means that he or she is referred to the social office where at the top of the whole meeting a new case handler who does not know the case. This is an unworthy treatment for people who need help and requirements for Nav services and benefits. Some time back, you could read about a young man, a mechanic, who was 23 years old who was injured in an accident at work. He was paralyzed in one arm, but still wanted to be 100 pst. economically active. That's why he asked Nav for re-schooling. Nav offered him a carpenter's course! The hub should be one door to services and services if necessary. Nav is currently fragmented into many departments for different disciplines, and social services are still a municipal office that does not provide its services through the same contact person as Nav otherwise. The promise of one contact person to the user and one door to the welfare seat is repressively broken. Nav should help more users to make use of their residual working capacity, to get more people who receive disability benefits back to work, and to prevent more and more ports from receiving permanent passive benefits. Unfortunately, we see that an increasing number of people are being dissatisfied, that users of miscarriages who want to return to work — in whole or in part — are not receiving help, and that very few disabled people have come into work after Nav was introduced. Nav manages a very large proportion of the state budget. The budget proposal for 2009 is close to DKK 280 billion for welfare purposes. It is a great and responsible task to ensure that the money reaches those who need it the most and who have the right to benefits. It requires competence and qualifications in a number of areas to ensure that the funds — and not least the care of users — are channelled in a timely manner. Unfortunately, I get the impression that there is often a lack of competence and ability in different contexts within Nav to a greater extent now than before the reform came into force. That is very worrying. It cannot be accepted that, for example: In September, there were 19 000 interruptions in the waiting period, and the objective of the number of social clients on the qualification programme is not met. Nor can it be accepted when we continue to hear about social security abuse and users who have been illegally receiving social security funds for a long time. There is little confidence when we read in the newspapers that, in such a situation, Nav offices should be closed for two days because the employees are going to be on a course. New work and welfare management was meant to be an improvement for users. They were to have one contact person to deal with, individual plans were to be drawn up, beneficiaries of social assistance were to be on the qualification programme, more on disability would be helped to get back to an active work situation, and everyone would get one door to Nav. It hasn't been like that. The Progress Party has supported the reform because it was initially fully in line with our programmed policies. We cannot accept that the implementation will not succeed after the intentions of a total expansion, and I am eager to hear how the Council of State plans to ensure that the will of the Storting is done, and how he will help to correct the imbalances that seem obvious today. I am aware that it is a great task to establish many Nav offices, and that we are in the middle of the process. However, significant funds have been allocated to implement this. In addition, the government parties, with the support of other parties, have, in my view, shot themselves a little in the foot by keeping the social office municipal and thus avoiding baking the culture that lies in the municipalities, into the two state institutions, which would in the long run be much better for implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e783	Before preparing my response to the interpellation, I read through the minutes of an interpellation debate on the Nav reform on 7 February this year. That was a good debate. It showed that there was a cross-political consensus on the need for reform and understanding that it is difficult to implement it. At the same time, it was agreed that users should also receive good service during the reform period. As my predecessor, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said: ‘We’re going to get caught up in the bad experiences of users, because we can’t live with users having bad services for years because we’re implementing the NAV reform.’ Further: ‘we’re going to be hard on the one hand to demand that NAV take this seriously and deploy resources to solve the problems that arise.’ [[...]] I'm going to end up with that. We also had a debate just under two weeks ago when the additional appropriations for the Employment and Welfare Act were adopted. As I see it, there are two different types of problems we face in the management of work and welfare. The first is problems that we know about from the previous floors. In particular, this applies to the lack of follow-up of users, and it takes too long for active measures to be taken for persons on health-related benefits. That's why we chose to adopt the Nav reform, and now we're establishing something new. The second is problems arising from the implementation of the reform itself. These challenges require different responses. With regard to the problems we already know, it's my opinion that the best thing we can do is carry out the course we're in now. I am sure that when the new organisation and content reform are in place, we will have the labour and welfare management that was the goal of the Nav reform. That's what I'm saying because we see that several of the Nav offices that have been set up for a while now work as we want. The problems related to the implementation of the reform itself are explained in the budget proposal and in the St.prp. No 87 for 2007-2008. In particular, there are two areas that are critical and where users have less experience than before. It's trial time, and it's available on the phone. In the first half of 2008, the Labour and Welfare Unit has established specialised administrative units to ensure efficient resource use and to release time for individual guidance and follow-up of users in the Nav Office. At the same time, the establishment of the Nav offices has continued with full strength. Each such establishment is itself a small reform. Both the establishment of the administrative units and the establishment of Nav offices have contributed to the significant and unfortunate increase in the balances that we have seen this year. To reverse this trend, 100 million have already been adopted. kr more to the Employment and Welfare Act this year. In the draft budget for next year, the strengthening has continued. So this is going to be increased by 200 million. kr for the years 2008 and 2009 for targeted efforts to reduce residues. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has a close and good follow-up to the individual counties to reverse the unfortunate trend. Less remains have been notified in September and October. I will follow developments continuously and receive regular reporting. The availability on the telephone of the labour and welfare management has been too poor. As a result, many people meet directly at the Nav offices to get answers to simple enquiries. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare is working systematically to ensure better accessibility by telephone. The counties that have established customer centres now report good results. Once upon a time, these states had the biggest problems. In addition, new technical solutions are established that relieve the Nav offices and provide greater flexibility. In addition, the ETA implements several immediate actions locally. The interpellant notes that the lower number of participants in the qualification programme than planned can be seen as a sign of failure to reform. The introduction of new instruments is demanding. This is why we have from the outset had a specific approach to reporting from the Nav offices to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to capture conditions that can help delay implementation. In recent months, much more applications for programmes have been registered than in the first half of the year, and the number of participants has increased significantly. This may indicate that the close follow-up produces results and that we can expect that the number of participants will continue to increase significantly by the end of 2008. In addition, the action is important because it underpins the very intention of the Nav reform to cooperate across the Nav office and where municipal and state instruments are seen in the context. The introduction of the qualification programme means that many who would previously be dependent on economic social assistance are now entitled to an individualised programme with a corresponding financial benefit. It is an important social policy reform that will help reduce dependence on economic social assistance and increase the number of people in the target group. In addition, there is strong month-to-month growth. By the end of October, 3,600 had applied for participation in the programme, and the number of participants was 2,500. The interpellant also notes that there are challenges in terms of skills requirements for managers and employees and cultural development between different environments. Ensuring competence and establishing a common culture means far more than the physical aggregation of former establishments. This is why extensive training has been provided in connection with the establishment of the Nav Office, both for employees and for managers. Each Nav Office undertakes modular training. The modules are selected according to the competence of each employee. Both government and municipal staff are undergoing training. Building up cultural differences between the two former states and employees from the local social services is a major concern when establishing the Nav office, and continues after the Nav office has come into operation. However, cultural differences are mainly built down in everyday life when employees with different backgrounds work with users and using common tools in the Nav office. Interpellant asked questions about what the Council of State would do to ensure that the Nav reform would be implemented in line with Storting’s intention. The Ministry has closely followed up and regularly reported from the department. Personally, I have monthly meetings with the Director of Labour and Welfare. Let me add that I also get a lot of messages about development in other ways, including from the users themselves. This gives me a good starting point to take action, if necessary, to ensure that the reform is carried out in line with the intentions, as exemplified by the additional appropriations this year. Finally, I would like to stress our responsibility as politicians. The Nav reform concerns 17 000 employees and more than 2.5 million users per year. The employees stand every day to realize the goals we have, and they do a formidable job of which we already see a lot of results. What we're saying has a lot to say about how employees experience their everyday lives and what results we can expect from them. Now, if we give signals that can be interpreted as if we want something else with the reform, it would be disturbing. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, stand firm on the long-term objectives and strategies, as there still seems to be a broad political consensus on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e821	I have never been contacted as many times in my time at Stortinget as I have been in the implementation of the Nav reform. The Council of State said that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the intentions and objectives of implementing the Nav reform, and the interpellation today is part of precisely focusing on the desire and commitment of an aggregate increase in the achievement of the objectives set out in the previous decisions. The Council of State was also concerned that the former Council of State for this area, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said in an interpellation debate that he would address these problems. The problem is that nothing has happened for a long time. Now it looks as if the processing time goes down, and it's good news, it's very good that the balances go down. But one of the problems I addressed in my post is that very many users feel poorly treated at Nav. It has nothing to do with the remainders. They won't be met with respect. It is important to be trained through skills enhancement to ensure that users are treated with respect in the Nav offices. I hope that the Council of State will take care of it. I know that we are in the middle of the process of establishing the Nav offices. But it is also the case that significant amounts have been allocated over time to achieve these objectives. There are 700 new employees. It should also be possible to demand results along the way. As I said in my post, the government has not made it easier by not lifting municipal culture as part of the state system. This creates even more problems for which you should be careful. I would like to know if the Council of State agrees that perhaps the social offices can be withdrawn as part of the state, and thus all of this is rooted in one common culture under one common direction. Today, we also see on the NA24 website that there are large appropriations going to consulting services, over 1.2 million. kr goes to consulting services instead of to customer care. I would like to hear the comment from the Council of State on that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e832	Let me start with the last point of the interpellant, which was about today's look-up on consulting services. I'll be the first to agree that I think those amounts are large. When we have several content reforms that go in parallel with the Nav reform itself – that is, the contents of the Nav offices – some of the problems with long processing times are missing communication between the old floors and the old buildings and municipalities. At the same time, we have the pension reform. I am very concerned that it is being used the best available qualification available to design good ICT solutions. It's in line with Storting's assumptions, I see. The most important thing for me in this area is that in terms of what the Directorate of Labour and Welfare is called the fight – that is, the new system for the calculation of pension schemes, which is about to be completed now – I am primarily concerned with the quality of quality, so that users get the right pension and at the right time. It's a big, challenging task, and that's the main focus, of course, within the framework of a housekeeper's good use of the funds allocated. Then I would like to stress to the representative himself that we are in the middle of the process. Based on some questions I get and some articles I hear, it sounds like the time has come to assess the results of the Nav reform. But there are 160 local offices that are not set up until next year, maybe a few in 2010, for building reasons. That means we're in the middle of a reform. In that reform, empowerment is one of the focusses on providing better customer service. Because it is not that people work at the Nav offices today who have a worse attitude towards users because Nav has been established. So we're talking about more old cultures to coordinate. And it's just having customers in focus and having a good customer service – including for example: Telephone services, as I say, are part of the good customer service – which is better than the one that was before the Nav reform, which is the important thing. I have nothing more to say about the municipal social offices than that this is the solution that the Stortinget has chosen and that I am going to fully defend and implement, because I am going to carry out the reform that the Stortinget has adopted. I believe that the peculiarity and competence of the community's social actions are now well included with the solution we have chosen for the local Nav offices. Then I must finally be allowed to say that I record that the Progress Party is also concerned about the Nav reform in the light of the many public enquiries that the representative receives, that I get, and that others get. I'm probably getting enquiries about even more examples than the ones we read about in the media. That is the basis for the assessment of the progress of the reform. But the representative's party suggested in this year's government budget that we should spend 431 million. kr less to implement the Nav reform. I don't imagine that users would get better services and faster answers if that had been the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e845	I am not quite aware of the number in the series of Nav debates today's debate, but it is important that the reform be followed by politicians on behalf of the users, so far I follow the interpellant Kenneth Svendsen. But I do not follow the inter-pellant in his proposal to also state the social office part of the reform, because I think it is important that the reform is also followed by the eyes of local politicians, because they are even closer to the users than we do. I am also convinced that the culture that exists in the municipal social offices is a valuable procedural culture to include in the further reform. Then I want to go back a little bit in time, to February this year. The majority in this Chamber, through the interpellation of Per Rune Henriksen, expressed their concern for feedback: on length of proceedings, on missing documentation, and on unavailable case handlers. There were feedbacks that stand in quite sharp contrast to the goal of the Nav reform, namely a better everyday life for users through one door where there were three, a simplification, better individualisation of services, and taking a positive approach to people's own resources. The current state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was in that debate openly and honestly that in such a great reform it has been, and it will certainly continue to be, examples of routine failure. His promise to the Stortinget, however, was to grips with such bad user experiences when they had to show up. State Council Dag Terje Andersen has followed up this promise. He has explained that in his own article here today. We also had an extensive debate here on Thursday 13th of this month on additional appropriations for Nav. In this respect, I really have a question for the representative of Kenneth Svendsen. He showed in his first post the 'will of the great thing' of the Nav reform. For my part, I find it a little difficult to see that the Storting has one expressed will in this case. If the Advance Party's 2008 alternative budget had been adopted, what would the situation have been for the users of the Nav ET? Governments mentioned a cut of 431 million. NOK, and there were some more cuts actually. There was a cut at the operating point of 50 million. kr for Chapter 604, and together with the Right Advance Party, it was possible to cut 30 pst. on equipment and maintenance only in the case of smarter tenders, the right did not propose a cut. The advance party already cut off with that gunner 75 million. kr on the equipment front and an expectation of 431 million efficiencies. kr. So it's more than $12 billion in cuts – less for operations and necessary equipment, and so powerful efficiency measures that it would necessarily also lead to cuts in the number of employees. As if that were not enough, the Progress Party wanted Nav again to be responsible for the purchase of health services to the sick, and that the management of health reimbursements as a whole should be below the Working and Welfare Session – the last correctly allocated earmarked funds. Then I'm a little excited about this, because the Progress Party's draft budget for 2008 and the fact that the Progress Party was actually involved in redispating $40 million. NOK 60 million and additional appropriations. NOK – 100 million. kr extra to the floor – it is a little in contrast to what the Advance Party has previously stood for. The budget for this year is without the cuts proposed by the Progress Party itself, and on top of that, the Progress Party in this month is contributing 100 million. Extra kroner. So I have one more question: does it mean that the Progress Party will now continue its new view of the need for resources in Nav, or will we, when we meet for the budget debate next month, again experience new, irresponsible budget cuts from the Progress Party, which will only lead to a poorer service provision for users? I don't, like, get the policies of the Progress Party all the way into this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e858	There is and has been a broad consensus on the Nav reform in Stortinget. We knew that it would be demanding, and it has been, both for the users and for the employees. We've also given full support to the department, and we've said that first priority must be that people get benefits. Unfortunately, it has been shown that the waiting time for many has been long. This has been referred to by the Council of State, as well as the way in which additional funds have now been allocated to bring down the balances. It turns out, of the reports we get, that this is about to turn around and go the right way. I'm very pleased, because it's absolutely necessary that people who don't have any other income get the income they need at the right time, from the social security and the benefits that Nav manages. I am therefore very pleased with what the Council of State says about developments in that area. From the SV side, we take all of the recordings we get from people, with great seriousness. But it is very difficult to take seriously the concerns and criticisms of the Progress Party when you hear Lise Christoffersen in previous posts say that the Progress Party has granted much less for just what we are talking about now. In 2008, it was more than half a billion smaller to operate, i.e. the employees, and there was no qualification benefit either. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, which they have put forward, which is public, it is almost equally wrong. That's the 260 million. NOK at the post we're talking about now, and the qualifying benefit is gone. What we're talking about is that Nav has to have employees to have skills, which seems to be the focus of the Progress Party. They must have taken a course and learned the diverse tasks that Nav now has. They should have time to pick up the phone, and they should have the opportunity to deal with matters. It is completely impossible to understand that it should be possible within a budget framework that is significantly lower than what you have today, when we see that you have to hire people. In my home country they have very successfully hired some pensioners who have worked in the system before and who are now helping to get away from the applications. I also get some feedback that the Nav offices are doing well to ensure that those who have competence in a particular field are allowed to continue working on it. So, you don't force everyone to work with everything until you have the skills to do that job. This is a meeting between a person in need of assistance in terms of income, follow-up or work and administration. But that administration is essentially a human being. Then it's very important that the human being sitting there has both acquired the necessary skills and has the attitudes to be taken. At one point, I think the interpellant has a good point, not that social services should have been state – I disagree with that – but that social services are an important part of the Nav reform. There's an office now. It has to be one service. In most cases, there is also one management. My opinion is that it should be essentially this way, precisely because, as the representative of Kenneth Svendsen says, the social professional competence that lies in the social service in the municipality, in a way is the core competence of what is the main purpose of the whole Nav reform, namely that the auxiliary equipment was previously too inaccessible and too fragmented for those who needed it the most, and who ran from office to office and fell between all the chairs. I'm a little uncertain about the extent to which many places have actually managed to harness the social skills that exist. What we see, at least on the leftovers that I've been notified of, is that it's not in the social service queues have increased. It has increased in the state part of the reform of the queues. It tells me that there might be a competence in dealing with difficult transitions and living in a demanding everyday life, on which the whole Nav system would make a lot of money. So, for the qualification program. I'm very concerned about it. For example, a municipality like Horten, which I have visited, has now covered up its measurement figures. And how did they do it? Well, they've done it by also cooperating with non-governmental organisations that can offer alternative arrangements for people who've been on social assistance for a long time. There's a call for Nav to look after the partners just when it comes to this group, so you get started, because I think it's essential that we meet the targets of the qualification programme in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e875	The representative Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party is addressing a very important matter here, for which the Christian People's Party also has a strong commitment. The Christian People's Party is a warm supporter of the objectives of the Nav reform: more at work, fewer on social benefits, simpler and better service for users, measures tailored to their needs, and a holistic and efficient labour and welfare management. We have been patient because we respect that this reform is comprehensive and complex to implement. But now we have come to a point where very many aspects point towards the development of the Nav reform in the wrong direction. Individuals have difficulty getting in touch with the case handlers. I have received many feedback that it is completely impossible to get to Nav through the phone. This means that many people have to meet in person at the Nav offices and stand in line to get answers to something that could have been solved in a much easier way. A short time ago, it was a co-conspirator who proposed to allocate 60 million. kr to strengthen the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. I think it is right that some of this money is going to be cleaned up in such circumstances as I have now mentioned. It will lead to better organisation, better efficiency and provide better and faster services to users. The Christian People's Party understands that the Nav offices are still under construction, and that it will remain to be established around 180 offices at the entrance of next year. At the same time, it is important to note that no worker has been laid off in this change, and it may therefore be difficult to understand that the procedure has increased so much since the spring of 2007. The number of stays has increased from more than 70 000 cases to about 193 000 cases in August 2008. It's a pleasure if it's changed. This summer we could also read that the Labour and Welfare Act breaks its own deadlines in about 14 000 cases. This leads to too many people going and waiting for answers from Nav. The Christian People's Party is particularly alarming that the Government does not ensure that the Labour and Welfare Act implements the statutory follow-up of users receiving health-related benefits. It turns out it's above 70 pst. there is a lack of a follow-up plan of the controlled cases of temporary untied pay, and several Nav offices, according to the Riksrevision, have deliberately deprioritised the follow-up of these users. I ask the Council of State to follow this group extra closely, as more people may have the potential to work more. When it comes to following up sick and dialogue meetings with Nav, I will come back with concrete proposals for improvements during our budget debate. Challenges related to the competence of managers and employees and cultural development between the different environments may be underestimated in the implementation work. Vulnerable groups are affected in a totally unacceptable way. Last week I was in Setesdal. Several municipalities have joined forces to have a joint Nav office to strengthen the professional environment for the benefit of users. Their desire has been to use the efficiency gain to strengthen their own professional skills. To their great frustration, they feel that it is now completely manned down. There was cross-political criticism that several former employees at the office in the valley now have to commute to the central unit in Arendal. That's not how they imagined the reform was going to be. At the same time, I can also say that no one wanted the state to take responsibility for the social offices, nor does the Christian People's Party want. The criticism from several teams is massively negative, although I also get messages from someone who gets to the goal of the reform – among others. I get good feedback from Flekkefjord, a place I want to visit. It is important that positive examples also appear, so that employees want to continue in the important job they do. I think it was nice that the Council of State gave good feedback to the 17 000 employees, which I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e896	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, took up a very important matter and worked on it. Let's agree that this is a major reform, perhaps the largest in this decade, where we're going to get three independent agencies to work together, because the goal was to get more out of work and less into social security. Nav shall assist employers and employees in creating a more inclusive working life and shall be responsible for the follow-up to the IA Agreement. The State of Labour and Welfare is undergoing a transformation through the Nav reform, with the establishment of Nav offices and administrative units, and through the work on a new pension reform and a health refund reform. Nav is set to solve very important societal tasks, and meets, of course, major challenges in this work. That's why we need to strengthen Nav's ability to help people who turn, not by using Nav's employees as balancing post, as the Progress Party does and has done in several cross paths. It is amazing that the Progress Party is calling for more efficiency when the same batch proposes to remove more than 400 million. I can't believe that the Progress Party expects it to happen without having negative consequences. In 2008, it has been found that the implementation of the reform has been more demanding than in the past, which has resulted in an increase in the number of cows in the procedure. Major challenges have also led to longer waiting times. That's why there's an increase in Nav's allocation to help people get faster. We need the time until 2010 for the Nav reform to be fully in place. Strengthening the network has just been done to ensure that the Nav reform is implemented as planned, as an equivalent cooperation between municipalities and the Labour and Welfare Act, and without jeopardising current service production. Early in 2007, 121 Nav offices were established and the number was increased to 246 offices by the end of 2007. 140 offices are planned in 2008 and at the beginning of 2009 a location between 160 and 180 offices remains to be established. I think keeping the municipal section, the social office, in Nav, will prove to be an advantage in the future. Because someone was good at tailoring adaptations, it was just the social offices. If you take advantage of that advantage and play it with the two state agencies, I think we'll have a cooperation that we'll later be proud of. The Progress Party has raised questions about how we should fulfil the reform's intentions. The party has on a number of occasions promoted a completely different view on how to organise the Labour and Welfare Act. It is a vision that the party stands alone in, and that the Central Party cannot support. We believe that the wit is equally distributed in this country, and we have no faith that only the state will have control over the assistance of those who need support for living, all problems are solved – rather the opposite. We believe that people locally visit the Nav office because the office knows the conditions, knows where the shoe prints and can help people in a life crisis. Let's admit it: there are negatives at some Nav offices, but it's big plus at other Nav offices – and it's growing. I think that when 2010 runs out, we have an organization that works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e919	The Nav reform has been under debate many times, no later than 14 days ago. It is a reform with major objectives, better working conditions, better user regulation and more efficient management. The left is and has been a driver of the Nav reform. Only through proper cross-debate cooperation can we guarantee citizens' rights in the face of public opinion. Yes, it has been demanding, as many have been, especially when different cultures, systems, different location and not least competence meet. In my opinion, there has to be a different focus. This may not only be such that employees in the next few years will have a focus on internal relations. The view must also be directed at those who are actually to be served, the users. The left is concerned about how to meet the needs of heavy users. Within the social security system and the Aetat there are complex laws and regulations that require a high level of competence to be interpreted. It is demanding for each case handler to have sufficient overview to facilitate users with complex problems and challenges. Several people have argued that one door in and one first line service, which means that people are not sent from case handler to case handler, is important for users to have a worthy offer. All the user experiences of the interpellant and others indicate that it is not necessarily as simple. But one door in just has to mean that there are no new doors opening afterwards, otherwise the users' meeting with Nav is made difficult. The left is concerned if the answer to the problems becomes more centralized, as it may make it more difficult for all Nav offices to have access to the right skills. Centralisation of services will make it more difficult for users. The main feature of the Nav reform must be that users feel that access to services is easy and that competence is closest to the user. Centralisation has never been the intention of the Left, and we will follow this up further in the treatment of the reform. It's going to be in many ways the same debate that we had 14 days ago, and, as several have mentioned, that we had in February. But there are some basic differences. Early in the period we debated on the basis that we had about. 700000 people of working age outside the labour market. That number will increase next year. For the big difference from when we had the debate in February, it's now a completely different situation. And the fact that Nav has had problems and has not worked optimally when it's been good times is in many ways a scheme for what's going to happen now. What will happen when we face much more challenging times ahead? The council said in its statement that he agreed with his predecessor that he should be hard in his hand when needed. Well, I think it might now be necessary to tighten your hand a little bit. Nor can I agree with the interpellant who wants to transform the social offices into a government agency. I just think, as the representative Samuelsen was inside, that partnership between the municipality and the state will be what works best. But of course we need to develop that partnership, and that is where a careful follow-up is needed. I could imagine hearing what the Council of State thinks will happen now when we have a financial crisis that makes its contribution. What groups does he consider to be having problems? We see part of it in the media. In the past, they have been the ones who have had to go first. This applies to disabled persons, part of the group with migrant backgrounds, chroniclers and others. Nav himself has said that they have problems dealing with more jobseekers, and this is extra problematic. There is reason for concern. It may also seem that some companies are now choosing to reduce the financial crisis situation, and that it is the seniors who are going through it first. This is something the Council of State should take a closer look at. In any case, it is important to pursue an economic policy that allows as much work as possible. But for those who become victims of depopulation, the question is, Is Nav rusted for the new situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e941	The most eye-catching thing about this debate is that the representative Karin Andersen actually found one positive thing about the Progress Party taking this up. But my point has always been to keep focus on the implementation of Nav, which is to give users a better offer. I certainly believe that it is important. But even if we focus on achieving that goal before we finish the Nav reform, thousands of Nav users are demanding respectful treatment along the way. When we get an enquiry that we're not in the goal of this, it's our job to make sure that it focuses on it. There has been some of what I have wanted to do. When implementing such a major reform, I think it is positive that users are asking the critical questions. What is achieved with that is that we get a better implementation of the reform. I can promise Storting that I will continue to do so. So to this with social assistance, to which more have been critical. Yeah, we know more parties here are critical of that. But over the years the Progress Party has been promoting many, many good proposals, and unfortunately it has taken five to ten years before they have been implemented. I think this is one of the proposals that will be implemented in the future, but of course it will hit someone in that period. Then I record that several speakers have been up here and criticized the cutback of the Progress Party in the budget both last year and this year. It shows the ability of certain parties in Stortinget to think completely. For what are the employees of Nav doing? Well, they help people get work. They help people and guide them into the social security system. In fact, one must also have the right to ask a critical question of effectiveness. So it's also true that when a party spends billions of dollars on investments in, for example, billions of dollars. the road network and the rail network, using billions of dollars in tax credits to increase the number of people employed, will result in the need for Nav to help not all those in the unemployment queue. That is why the Progress Party proposes this, and thus a cut in Nav. This year, it appears that the government has unfortunately not had the basis to solve the problems that have to be done in the future in Norway, and thus we have found reason to maintain the appropriations that they have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e954	Let me start with the last one, which concerns the budgeting of the Advance Party. Because when a party is able to spend billions of dollars in most fields – in all fields – it is just a very strong signal that a believer should spend less on Nav. The signal just gets stronger. So to a previous question, if we're making some changes. Well, we're making changes. We have transferred responsibility for the line going out to the local Nav offices, from the Health Directorate to the Labour and Welfare Directorate. It is a transformation of the governance structure that I believe produces results. It makes the counties follow up very closely. This means that we focus on telephony, that we focus on following up the qualification programme with target figures for each local authority, etc. So it's going to be taken hold of here. Some changes have been made to Nav abroad, which has had major challenges because more people come to Norway and work and thus become part of our people's security system. Several Nordics have periods abroad, and there are now new challenges for Nav abroad. So we're constantly taking to ourselves the situation that is, and the situation that is changing. We're under arrest – we've got control. Then for respectful treatment. I fully agree that this is the main point of the Nav reform. But the key to this is just education, schooling and empowerment. I recorded some time ago that in the evening post many Nav offices throughout the country were closed because there was a large collection of Nav employees in the spectrum. It's the kind of misunderstanding that makes everyday life more difficult – because there wasn't one from local Nav offices there. It was just people from the special units. Not a Nav office was closed that day. But it provides the basis for a perception of Nav that in that case was wrong. So to what the representative Woie Duesund said. I very much agree with much of the Christian People's Party for the Nav reform. But, anyway, when the representative says that things are developing in the wrong direction, and using some examples from this summer, I think it's important for us to record that when Nav now manages to reverse the trend on residues, we'll take it with us. We should take into account that there is now a significant increase in the number of people on qualification programmes, which is kind of part of the core of Nav, where we see the results quickly and concretely – people who have never received it before – because you can see government and municipal instruments together. So when it comes to the financial crisis, I'd just like to say briefly that we're planning, of course, in relation to it. As of today, of the 68 000 places we have proposed, it is estimated that approx. 11 500 for short-term measures – i.e. for people who become unemployed. I am concerned that the action areas for the other groups should not be weakened because we may need to use a few more in the future in view of the cyclical situation. But we've taken it into account in the budget as it is now. Finally, I would just like to say that my task in relation to Nav is a demanding one, but also supportive one in a difficult process. [[The President clubs.]] I'm also going to have an understanding of the employees, provided that they have first and foremost understanding of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e969	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over. The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e985	The Municipal Committee has examined proposals from the Landfill representatives Lars Sponheim, Gunnar Kvassheim and Trine Skei Grande to introduce a registration system for lobbying in Stortinget, in the departments and in the Prime Minister's office. A large majority of the committee, all the parties outside the Left, supports the view that the Left's proposal is not acceptable. So today the Storting says no to the proposals from the Left. There will be no registration system beyond what we have today. The Committee considers that it is a fundamental democratic right to influence decision-makers for their own or others' benefit. Contacts between citizens, businesses and organised interests on the one hand, and corruption and government on the other, are a necessary and legitimate part of our democratic system. Lobbying is also an important part of our democracy. Transparency is important. Similarly, the majority of the Committee does not see the need neither to register nor regulate lobbying because it may have adverse consequences. Firstly, a registration system will be resource-intensive. Furthermore, such a scheme could create a higher threshold for individual citizens in contacting decision-makers. Today, individuals can contact to address one or more cases, without being associated with a particular matter that the Storting has to deal with. Thirdly, a registration system would not guarantee transparency in relation to lobbyism in the United Kingdom, in the Departments or in the Prime Minister's office. A comprehensive registration system may lead to meetings and discussions with decision-makers to a greater extent than is currently the case outside the Storting or the Ministries. There will also be a great need for limitations in the case of lobbyists who contact e-mails and SMSes. None of our Nordic neighbouring countries has put in place such a registration system as is proposed by the Left. Several countries have taken this debate – and have concluded on how Stortinget is doing today. The European Parliament has a formal regulation that gives lobbyists access cards. The majority do not want such a scheme. We want to keep the system that those who come to Stortinget, to the various departments or to the Prime Minister's office must have an agreement. Proposalers are entitled to the fact that it is already not possible to enter the departments or the Stortinget without registering. However, the proposal from the Left implies that one should also record which matter to be discussed and by whom a meeting is to be held on behalf of. I agree with the proposers that lobbying has evolved to become more professional over the years. Greater transparency around this business is positive. It can help citizens to better understand important parts of the political decision-making process and to increase confidence in the proper adoption of policy decisions. Lobbyism obviously has positive sides. Lobbyists can contribute their knowledge and their approaches to current political issues. It may be an important source of supplementary information in addition to what is disclosed in ordinary file documents. But if the political system is under increasing pressure of strong professional interests, different forms of organised special interests and power concentrations in business, it may be unfortunate from a democratic point of view. It is not good for certain actors in a market, or in an industry, to obtain tailor-made framework conditions through closed contacts. The growing number of professional lobbyists and information agencies acting on behalf of such clients in recent years can reinforce this. We must be on guard against strong special interests. There are many good arguments in favour of a registration system. The aim of the proposal is good, but the majority of the committee believes that a registration system will not solve the challenges we face in lobbying. There is now a low threshold for contacting individual representatives. It's positive. It is up to each representative or group within the political system to set limits on whom one will meet. Transparency and trust are linked. A registration system will never be able to give a complete overview of – or transparency about – who is in contact with who and what they are talking about. Finally, I would like to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1014	I would like to start by promoting the proposal in the vote. Transparency and transparency are important in a well-functioning democracy. If we are to have a qualified debate, we need to know what is going on in order to influence the work of authorities, priorities and decisions. The left is rightly called the Transparency Party. For many years we have been in favour of greater transparency in administration both locally and centrally. We've been incited to get an improvement in the Publicity Act, to get more transparency in Storting's work, to get open hearings in Stortinget, and in extending this, the proposal for a lobby register is a natural follow-up. The level of lobbying is increasing. A lot of resources are spent on lobbying. That must mean that it works. It must mean that those who spend money on this are paid. Today, there is transparency about those who contact the administration in writing and make recordings with a view to influencing the outcome of a case. Those who send lobbyists to the Stortinget or the Government should be met with a similar system that ensures transparency about who is working on current issues. This has a significant impact in the EU. This is one of the consequences of Congress in the United States. What is the problem, as the majority deal with this matter, is that one has made it a question of whether one should be for or against lobbyism. This is not a matter in which we discuss whether lobbyism is wanted or not desired. Lobbyism is a natural part of our democracy. It can have an important function. Our point is not to regulate and limit, but to register, so that there is transparency in this area as well. This proposal, which is now being promoted by the Left, has been promoted before. In addition, we have made a proposal asking the Government to ensure that there is a registration of lobbying activities aimed at the ministries or the SMK. I know that the bulk of the population has a labyrinth of commitment in this area, but the committee has been worse than I thought. SV has previously agreed with Left. They have either changed their position or been overrun, or a combination of both. When the Left challenged the State Council in Stortinget earlier on why she rejected a registration system for lobbyism against the Government, the Council of State did not conceal that it was because the majority in the Government meant anything other than SV. SV was just running out of time. It's a result of a government treatment that you can understand, even if you're disappointed with the outcome. What was more surprising and disappointing in the handling of this matter by the Council of State is that in a letter to the Stortinget she rejects a registration system and argues in a way that shows that she does not at all have a sense of this system. She argues with objections that Left and SV have previously explained and rejected. The Storting process shows that the SV has not been exceeded. They have simply changed their mind. It would be quite possible to enter a lobby register in Stortinget, even if the government rejected such a scheme, against SV's votes. Now only the left enters a lobby register in Stortinget. It is alarming that the involvement as, among other things, Kristin Halvorsen has previously had, as a proposal for a lobby register, not at all to be seen in the comments that SV subscribes to. When writing the textbook on envelopes, SV's behaviour in this matter will be the crown example. There are three objections to the proposal of the Left on a lobby register. One is that it should be so resource-intensive. That's wrong. There is today a registration of those looking for both the bulk and the ministry, which would have been possible to expand without much use of resources, as the Left suggests. So it is also said that a lobby register will create a higher threshold for single-citizens who will seek contact with depositors. It's also wrong. Individual citizens will not at all be affected by our proposal, and it is clear from the arrangements of the proposal. So it's said that this won't be a guarantee of transparency. No, that's absolutely right, but it would be an important contribution to transparency. These objections to the proposal for a lobby register are the classic objections to any innovation, to any improvement in public affairs. When I wanted to have open Presidency meetings in the municipality that I was politically active, the arguments against this would lead to decisions being taken elsewhere, and that the process was so disrupted by this that we would find new ways to work for the Presidency. Open Presidency meetings are now legally required. When the Left proposed open hearings in Stortinget, the objections were the same. This would lead to people being unable to express themselves as they would otherwise, etc. Now the rules of the Storting are that the hearings should be open. I am absolutely sure that this will also come to the lobby front. The left will continue the struggle for a more open society. It will, in addition to what I have mentioned, also mean that you have to find a registration, an opening in the case of lobbyists. I am pleased to hear the SV's reason not only for having turned in the Storting, but to have replaced an engagement that underlined the importance of getting registration in this area with objections that are not real about the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1050	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to at the beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1053	Contacts between citizens, businesses and organised interests on the one hand and corruption and government on the other are necessary, and it is a legitimate part of our democratic system. I didn't think Gunnar Kvassheim hit completely when it was crazy to describe how the debate has been going on in this case. I do not feel that the Committee or the Government of that part is skeptical about lobbyism. On the contrary, the case-speaker had in mind that lobbyism is part of our democracy. Therefore, I am not in agreement with Kvassheim's characteristics of the debate and setting itself. The proposers themselves stressed that meetings between politicians and lobbyists are legitimate and that lobbyism opens up positive sides. The case spokesperson made that clear, and so do I. Lobbyists, with their knowledge and approaches to current political issues, can be a democratic source of supplementary information. Of course, we should take advantage of that as politicians. The information may go beyond what has been disclosed in a current case, and thus it is a good input. Then there's also an interaction between us who are decision makers, and they're the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are It is important in a living democracy. Then it is that, after the government's view, the introduction of a registration scheme for lobbying could also have unfortunate consequences. The report from the Stortinget lobbying section of May this year shows some of them. The report reviews how some parliaments have regulated the issue of lobbying, and how the debate on regulation has been conducted in our Nordic neighbouring countries and in the United Kingdom. Several countries have assessed different proposals for such regulation at different times, but none of our Nordic neighbouring countries or the United Kingdom has yet chosen to introduce a public regulation of lobbying to parliament or government. Instead of legislating, the distribution highlights the value of public debate to produce the most possible aspects of a case. If a registration system were to capture all attempts at lobbying, it would require a registration obligation that could quickly become very far-reaching. Now the representative Kvassheim says that it is not one that has been proposed, but if one should first look at it, one also had to evaluate that page of such a register. One had to get up the question of delimitation very quickly, not least from a section of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who meets companies with stock exchange sensitive information, or one is in a process that may require exemptions from public opinion in order to clarify a matter. Now it's caught up in public law. Any registration obligation also had to be caught by the same exceptions to public law. Fear of what you're pointing at can push this kind of lobbying into more closed, less visible forms than today. So it's like we have an open administration in Norway. This government has done a lot to make it even more open. We have and have had good rules for record keeping and archiving for all years. We now have a new public law that establishes the principle of more publicity very strongly. It will further increase administrative openness. My department has been working on a new public e-mail journal. He comes in place after Christmas and will give every single resident, every political party, every media house – not just a few chosen ones, but all those interested in seeing what post goes to and from the government quarter – a quite unique possibility to follow with and ask for transparency. I think I said in an oral question time in a line-up with the representative Skei Grande that it is a quantum leap when it comes to publicity in Norwegian administration. We'll be proud of that. So, as I said, we have a management practice in Norway that takes care of many of the concerns that a lobby register was supposed to have. It's not like that in all of the countries that we can compare with. This is not the case in the United States, and this is not necessarily the case in the EU, which is a much larger and complex organisation. We have an open society with a strong and far-reaching public law, and it becomes more open, as I said, with a new public law. We have a law of administration that promotes good administration with writtenness in the proceedings and documentation of the administration's actions. We have archival laws and regulations that ensure the registration and recovery of their management documents, and this means that one cannot automatically compare Norway with other countries when it comes to the introduction of a lobby register. That is why the Government has chosen to reject the register, which was then joined by the majority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1076	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1079	What I tried to say in the first place was to try to make this a debate for or against lobbyism. It's not. Everyone agrees that lobbyism is positive. When this case was mentioned this summer, several experts said it was important for the government to turn around, because a lobby register could be important in the fight against corruption. Among those who claimed this was Professor Jan Fridtjof Bernt at the University of Bergen. I do not at all understand that a lobby register can be an important tool, among other things. in that context? As this was a theme earlier in Stortinget, the Council of State did not hide the fact that SV in the government was actually out of control. SV meant the same thing as Left. They wanted such a register, but they didn't get the partners in the government. This is how the Council of State argues today, it seems that she is a new-born follower of the opposite of what SV has stood for before, namely that one is fundamentally opposed to a lobby register. Is one overrun, or not, on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1092	I have only noticed that the left has a great pleasure in characterizing SV in this matter. I have been clear on this whole way. It's also been other SVs that we've had a different view of a lobby register before. It wasn't clear in the Soria Moria statement. We could therefore not expect that it was SV's view that would win that debate in the government, and neither was it. How the representative Kvassheim will characterize this, overrun or not overrun – I only record that it was the same in the previous period. At that time, Mr Left alone in the Grand Duchy voted in favour of that proposal. None of the Left's government colleagues at the time voted in favour. SV did not get their government colleagues during this period. This does not mean that we have put this debate to death for all time, but we have not been able to support that proposal in the present period, but we are working all the harder with other types of proposals that will ensure that we have openness and transparency in the administration and in what we are responsible for, that is, the government quarter and what is happening in and around the government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1099	I'm going to give the Council a new opportunity to answer the question of corruption. The Council of State agrees that a lobby register can be an important tool for corruption, such as: Professor Bernt gives an expression? Then I would like to say to the storytelling that it has never before been discussed a proposal on the lobby register against the government system. That proposal has now been promoted by the Left, and it has been examined for the first time. What has been treated before is the lobby register at Stortinget. The Council of State is then right in that the Left has shown the ability and the will to stand in its sight, even though the Left parties were in government with the Stortinget thought otherwise. The new thing here is that SV in Stortinget does not stand on the line that the Council of State confirms no later than now is the party's policy. So you are not just run over in government, but the Council of State simply leaves that overdrive to follow also for the way you handle this matter in Stortinget. It's spectacular, and she deserves all the characteristics she's got from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1106	If a lobby register will be a tool in the fight against corruption, it depends on how it is designed. The various reports and assessments that have been made in our neighbouring countries show that this must be very far-reaching. One must almost have a prohibition against meeting companies other than those registered as incoming visits to a department. That's what we've been pointing out, that without such a very wide registration, one could risk that the kind of company that doesn't want the public light on the visit or on the things they're there to promote. They will find other matches with politicians or other decision makers that they want to influence. So a lobby register is supposed to be an addition to what a lobby register does for the public. SV has done a lot to increase the publicity and transparency of the administration during the period we have spent in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1111	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1115	When I was studying history at Blinderna, I had a great professor of history, but he couldn't always explain everything in answer to a question. To a student he once said that "they had a reason, but some good reason wasn't enough." I have a feeling here that there are some people who have reasons – because there are very few reasons that are being presented from this pulpit, and I can't exactly say that all parties are very committed to explaining why you're against the proposal. The left is not against lobbyism. Nor do we believe that those who oppose the proposal are opposed to lobbyism, but they argue as if we are opposed to lobbyism. That's what Kvassheim's point was, that it's like we're regulating lobbyism. We have no desire to regulate lobbyism. It's just one thing we want: as much openness as possible around political processes in the country. It's been Left's battle cause for the last 125 years, and it's going to be for hundreds of years too. When the conditions of democracy change, democracy must also be willing to change and its way of working, so as to ensure that transparency is there. You may remember the debate about whether an e-mail is a matter for the public. You actually had to make new rules for what could be public in an e-mail when the e-mail came. Similarly, we see a huge professionalisation of the lobbying business aimed at Stortinget. We believe that the lobbying that actually happens could have benefited from greater transparency, because transparency is actually a prerequisite for democracy. And this is going to be so incredibly resource-intensive! When we have it today so that we register who is inside here, and who is being visited, it's just adding one more column: who is paying? This does not mean that you should register everyone you meet – not when you are visited by a woman or when you are visited by a sister. That doesn't mean you're going to register the lonely lady who just wants to tell you what it's like to live with exactly what she's living with. But that means that when there are interested organisations, when there are professional lobbyists, you simply register who pays. And then it'll raise the threshold! If someone pays someone to come here and deliver a message, and they don't dare come because they're registered, I think it's quite interesting. I think it is quite an interesting argument to use against such a proposal that it will raise the threshold for some of the lobbyists, that they will be afraid to come and present their arguments. Then I might think that they should not come and make their arguments known. If a paid lobbyist does not dare to come here and present his arguments because someone is told that he has been here, he should not come. We probably don't think that such a register will be a guarantee of transparency around all the processes, but it might be interesting to know which processes are being moved out, and which meetings are being held outside the Storting because you don't want to be registered. I think the press desk can get a lot of useful information out of which types of meetings can't be held, when they get into a lobby register. The restriction is not difficult. Each representative may do so at each meeting. So it is said that several countries have taken the debate. That's not true. I think it was incredibly stupid – I don't know if it's allowed to say that – but it was a little wise for the Council of State to take over the proposal that came from the Swedish power investigation, which is a completely different proposal from what we have put in. It looks like the whole thing a little bit. One feels that one fights against windmills when first people don't argue for what they stand for, and second, our proposal takes for something other than what the proposal really is. That is what the Council of State does in its answer. I was really very optimistic this summer. I had some faith that SV might be allowed to move a little in the government. The right said in the reading column this summer that this was a good suggestion. I think that might have been a little bit influenced by the fact that the Right had many young idealists in it to write reading articles separately. Maybe you should have heard a little bit about the young idealists in this particular case. The change today is that we are facing an increasingly professional lobbying. We have to meet it with something in order to maintain the openness of our democracy. I would like to hear some arguments as to why it should not be like this when it is so simple and so easy to define. It won't limit anyone, and those that limit, I'd like to see, because it would actually be pretty interesting to know why they don't want transparency around it that they're here. The left has always been in front of us to develop our democracy in relation to the new challenges we face. We're going to keep doing that, but I think today is a pretty big setback.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1136	No, this has not been a debate for or against lobbyism. I tried as the case rapporteur to explain in my post that there are a lot of positive aspects of lobbyism, but that there are also some challenges. The question is whether a registration system solves the challenges we face, because we can risk lobbying leading to press groups, which can lead to an untimely pressure, a professional and well-paid pressure on us as decision-makers. We see the challenges, but the majority of the committee believes that a registration system is not the answer to the question we are asking about how to meet these challenges. There has also been no debate for or against transparency. The majority of the Committee is in favour of transparency and agrees with the objective of the registration system, but considers that the scheme as such will have several adverse consequences. So, in sum, you've come to the conclusion that you don't want to go into this arrangement. There are young and old idealists in the Committee who see the need to ensure transparency and who are looking for good solutions to ensure transparency, but the registration system is too complex and too comprehensive. It doesn't have to be taken to be negative to openness. We're too open. We just want to ensure transparency. One way to ensure transparency in relation to press groups is to refer to open consultations in the United Kingdom. They're formal. There's a device to deal with this. Many of those who want to say something to decision-makers may be given the opportunity to attend hearings. It is the Storting and the Storing Committees that decide at all times how many and who you want to have at hearings when you open it up. I think that system works well, and I'm glad that those hearings were opened in the last period. There, the Left shall have the honor to have stood on to get to it. So to the post of the representative Kvassheim, who says that the committee treatment was worse than he thought. Now I can't comment on what Gunnar Kvassheim has believed, but something worse than that sounds very demeaning. Then I just have to say that the committee took the time to let the state council come up with an answer, and we could evaluate it. In addition, we received a separate investigation on lobbyism from the Stortingen Investigations Section. We got to see what to do in different countries in Europe and what to do in the United States. So I think that in this case the committee procedure does not deserve that characteristic. We spent a lot of time. We had an open mind. There were several parties who did not know exactly where to land when the proposal arrived, and we took the time to get good advice on the way through an investigation from the Stortinget. Now that we have concluded as we have, I hope that the Left understands that we have taken their proposal seriously. We're always looking for good solutions, and we're still going to be. I would like to make a few more comments. One goes on this with single-citizens. The left claims that it will not be worse for single citizens. Yes, where does the boundary go? Where is the border between lobbyism and single-citizens who make contact? rapporteur, what is he? He's paid by the people to influence the Storting. He doesn't run lobbyism – but where's the line going? I believe that a debt victim who has contacted us wants to be seen as a lobbyist. A representative of an entire group would like to come. I am absolutely convinced that it will be difficult to get a borderline between who are lobbyists, and who are not, when they come to visit the Stortinget or in departments. Finally, I think it seems that this has become a debate on whether SV and Left still agree on the register system. The representatives of the Left have attacked both the Council of State and the SV, and they will have to do so, but in the case of the other parties in the Committee, there has been an open mind. No one has overrun anyone. We have considered the proposal and reached the same conclusion. Regardless of which state council has sent the answer, we have reached a conclusion on what we think is the best answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1162	The left calls for the arguments of those opposed to the proposal. Of course, the argument can be found in the position — well described by a majority of the committee — and can be read there. But when it is presented by the representative Trine Skei Grande almost as if opponents of the Left's proposal do not dare to make their arguments in open spaces – that there is something scary about being against this, and therefore one does not engage in the pulpit – it is of course not right. That's the simple reason for that. There's a broad political majority here that means something other than Left. It is well described in the vote and has not least been presented well by the case rapporteur and is also supported by the Council of State. There has been a debate as to whether SV has been exceeded or vice versa. It may be that SV has been informed on the way. At least I take that into account when I read the letter that came from the Council of State. The representative Kvassheim draws the parallel to the open presidency discussion and says that the left got it right. There was open presidency, and no one is questioning it today. Well, the opponents of open presidency may say that the Left got it right, but perhaps the opponents were also right, because if you look at the presidencies today, they function in many ways as mini-communist and mini-city rulers, where the parties meet and present their positions on a stage, while the actual political discussions, which took place earlier in the Presidency meetings, are taking place in the corridors of the town halls – exactly what the opponents of this proposal thought would happen. That means that this kind of proposal, both the discussion about open meetings and the discussion about this register, are not discussions where you can have a black and white point of view, because both sides have arguments that can be emphasised. In this context, when we stress that such a register will not have the effect that bureaucracy, the work around it, will require, it is precisely from the point of view that we believe that it will in reality not be a squabble against the negative part of lobbyism, that is, where the representatives, for example, will be. are affected by the forces paid and do not dare be open around it. There is only one way to meet this, and it is with clear views from the individual representative of the big business. When you meet a professional lobbyist, you ask who's paying the bill. They ask what economic interests are behind it. In this way, he is – hopefully – well able to assess the message that is coming. I believe that such a register would also lead to a suspicion of meetings that, for some reason, could not take place on Stortinget. The press would immediately be able to question why the meeting did not take place at Stortinget: Is that so, for example. because someone wanted to keep it out of the register? But I certainly believe that the Left also has good arguments for its proposals. It may well be that the Left also gets right in this matter once, but I still believe that the future will show that we, who were opponents of the register, also had something right in our argument against the register.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1173	It was actually a little liberating that it was other than the case rapporteur and the Council of State who took the floor. I'm glad, because when they get here, the more proper arguments come. For me, it was first a disappointment that the other parties did not participate. The second is that with regard to the vote, there are in a way things that we have refuted in the proposal. I can go to work systematically. It says, for example. that a majority opposes the European Parliament’s system of access cards for lobbyists. We have not proposed that. Why is this a main argument against our proposal? Why do you say it's resource-intensive, when we say there's one little thing in addition to the system we already have today? There's a refuted point for point where there's talk of things we really haven't suggested. We have not proposed any resource requirements where everyone is going in, where you are going to register who is going in and out of the door, and then you are going to be connected to an interest group. No, we say that each member must be able to assess whether this is a lobbyist or whether it is a private meeting. If a rapporteur comes, he is the rapporteur, but if Fabian, as my rapporteur, comes here and takes a cup of coffee and does not speak politics, then I have no reason to register him. This could have been very easy to register, and we reject point by point the arguments that the committee has put forward. I could mention some examples. We have e.g. many times had run here from individual batches of some medicinal products to the prescription scheme. It's a lot of money for a business. It's a lot of money and it means a lot. It means a lot to our health budget, and we have seen several times that medicines have been pushed into the prescription system, including those that have been taken out. It would have been interesting to know whether those batches have met the pharmaceutical industry, or whether they have, for example, met. only met the patient group in that area. It would have been interesting for the public, also for handling the case. Who's pushing to get to this? Is it the manufacturer or is it the user? Such things are actually important to the public. What frustrates me is that very many parties here choose not to argue for what they stand for, and that they have argued against something that we have not proposed, and use arguments that seem to be sought after in relation to the scheme we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1184	It should not be difficult to understand that I experience the outcome of the committee procedure as worse than expected. The only supporter left in Stortingen on these issues, SV, has disappeared in committee. That's too bad. That is regrettable, because it weakens the pressure in this work. When the lobby register was mentioned in the Evening Post this summer, the Evening Post summarized that the Right supported the Left's proposal. The growing enthusiasm that we saw this summer from the Right has also disappeared during the Committee's proceedings. That's too bad. I also think that a justification that is largely irrelevant to our proposal is disappointing. Bent Höie says that the Left was right in dealing with the involvement of open presidency, but that it has had its rash. That's right. But here, we let objections benefit the transparency line. In the case of lobby registers, objections have been used for an improvement that should give greater transparency. It's probably like that in some municipalities where the Right knows about home, that a lot has moved to other offices in the City Hall, but the majority of the presidencies in this country have a different character, how much debate actually takes place in presidency. This will be reflected in the press reports, etc. It has been a long step in the right direction, and I hope that Bent Höie does not want to reverse the provision here. In setting limits on who is a lobbyist, work has been done on this both in the EU, in Congress in the United States and elsewhere. The EU is now in a process of further developing its system. We're content to say that when no other Nordic country has done this, we don't have to do it either. If there's something that would dress us, it was to lead in this work, be the example it was referred to in this area. There has been a discussion whether SV has been breached, reversed or informed. I look forward to hearing SV in Stortinget explain that. It's alarming, it's cowardly, it's striking, that a party with the party leader Kristin Halvorsen, who glowed and excited many years ago argued for this and said that this will come, in today's debate, does not tell us why that commitment is null and void, why they are now convinced that a lobby register is a fundamentally bad system, as they argue in the setting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1199	It's a little bit of a shame that the focus isn't on how we're going to ensure transparency, whether we have enough transparency in government, how we through the law can secure it, and have a discussion that focuses on that matter, and not trace that one characterizes each other's arguments. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, says that only when the Right took over did the proper arguments come up. Was the case rapporteur's arguments out of order? I don't think that kind of debate belongs in a parliament. Similarly, I find it strange that one should not be allowed to record the lobby register of the European Parliament. When the representative Kvassheim argues for a lobby register, he uses examples from Congress in the United States and from the European Parliament. The rapporteur says that we do not want such a system, with professional lobbyists with access cards, as they do in the European Parliament. The left can use these parliaments in its argument for, but it is therefore negative or critical when the majority of the committee says that such a system will not exist. Yes, it'll be on the left's account, but I'll recommend the Left that they focus on what this is all about. What it's all about is: is it wise to have a registration system? Many of us think that the arguments for are good, but we have summed up the arguments for and against and come to the conclusion that we are not in favour of such a system. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, said in one of his articles that we have to go as far as we can to ensure transparency. We can only do that if it's also referred to by the meetings. Only then will it become real openness. There are, like, no limits to how far you should go. I hope there's not going to be a suggestion on that. Finally, it's not that you should create skepticism or distrust of those who come to visit. On the contrary, it must be possible to invite them. Then the threshold must be low, and it may not be up to the individual representative to indicate whether it is a lobbyist or whether it is an individual coming. Then a registration scheme would have no value, because then you could only define it privately and avoid the entire register. Should we have a register, and should I ever vote in favour of such a register, the clear assumption had to be that everyone was registered – everyone or no one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1214	Step Skei Grande has the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1217	We must argue with the Council of Europe system, but we must not argue that we have proposed access cards, because we do not have them, and that is the access card system referred to in the comments. It is not that there has been a rush of suggestions from other parties that we have to decide on how to manage to maintain transparency here in the Stortinget. So to what I meant by proper arguments: in the post from the Right, it came out what's really there: you don't have faith that transparency creates wise decisions. There's the difference. I think transparency makes wise decisions. In the post from the right, it appeared that it is believed that the foremen are a little worse when they are open than if they had been closed. I think the result is that democracy gets a little better when it's open than when it's closed. That's what's different -- that's what shows that there's a fundamental difference here, that people don't dare to express, and that's what I know is a little provocative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1224	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1242	Is it free to snoop? That's what a lot of people say. Let's imagine a common street in a very common municipality somewhere in Norway. In this street it's approx. 30 houses. Among other things, there are: two nurses, one teacher, one Nav employee and the municipal school principal. You may even be a law-abiding case manager in the municipal administration – at least you're trying to be. In addition, some others live in the street, a banker, an Equator, a couple of craftsmen, some pensioners, a taxi driver, etc. Like anywhere else, there are rumors and small talk about both neighbors and other communities now and then. By and large, there is no malicious gossip, but really just a little kind, caring talk. It's a good neighborhood. Once a year, the income of neighbors is discussed, while the harvest lion rakes. It is also discussed that some of the children had been a bit irritated in the class because the father served a little little in relation to the others in the street. Young people get along so often. You have also been the big topic of conversation a few years ago, after being taken under radar control and had to park the car for a few months. But there was mostly just a little bit of benign irritation at work. One of the neighbors used to listen to a little bit on police radio.no, so there was no reason to deny the relationship. A few months ago the same neighbor had heard that the police were on their way to a family after a teenager in the house had called the emergency phone because the parents had smoked unclearly a Saturday night. And everyone pushed over it. But then one day you discovered a little bit randomly that the neighbors know far more than you were really aware of. The chat had become a little more sensational. Nurse Tove works at the local hospital and has access to the hospital records of the patients at the local hospital. She does not have anything to read them, nor does she have permission to read them all, but she discovered that one of the neighbours was enrolled as a patient, and a little bit of teasing could not hurt. Besides, she thought the diagnosis was a little funny, this was not just something a sheep by itself when one is a perfectly normal family father. Eventually she knew that he had been on vacation in Southeast Asia – ergo she just had to take a look. In addition, this could be confirmed by Nav-functioner Ståle. In connection with a social security fraud project, he had access to all the patient records to a specific doctor in the municipality and could read them all there. The information was not relevant to the project he was working on, but the records had been sent unsorted. In the house on the corner there's another nurse, Sissel. She works in the municipal health service and has discovered that the municipality she works for has posted her case on the municipality’s websites – unloaded. Among other things, it said that the woman had gone to the psychologist. This way you could keep going on forever. For the following are the facts: People can snoop in the tax lists for no other reason than that one is curious. The nurse at the hospital, the medical secretary and the Nav official can look into the patient records without having any professional reason for it – just curiosity. The banker can look into people's accounts without having anything to do there. The tax office recently handed out our personal numbers without a message, despite the fact that the personal number is the easiest way to steal the identity of others. Bodø and Trondheim municipalities have required birth numbers from officers who order school milk for their children. The birth number is required for tipping. Personal data may be of great interest for foreign intelligence and may now be sent by insecure e-mail. Child protection, PPT service, physiotherapist supervised and screened the children in the kindergarten in Klepp municipality without the parents knowing it. Many actually know more than Mother knows. At Hauketo high school there were piles of confidential student reports in a container with wide - open doors in the school yard. The memory stick from the PPT service with person-sensitive information was found on Askøy, and the finder was in and snooping. The Ministry of Knowledge may, by regulation, require all persons who receive training under the Training Act and the Private School Act to provide information and participate in various surveys, surveys and evaluations. In other words, it snores far into our innermost private spheres. We are recorded, monitored and analysed. Often we don't know about it, and more and more often we don't get to oppose it either. I don't want to suspect anyone with my examples, but all the examples that I built the story at first have happened, and have been reported. So there are real events that have happened in real municipalities, even if it hasn't happened in one street. Snoking has no consequences for the snooping, only for the snooping, to a large extent. The smaller the place where we live, the greater the impact, the more information is going to be. Whoever's being snooped doesn't know it's happening, maybe not until after a long time. So the neighbor is looking at you under the dune while you're in the deepest sleep. Internet, various electronic solutions, SMS and MMS – not only living in a small place is a prerequisite for rapid dissemination of information, but also rapid dissemination across the country. There is information that remains available for all time, and that it is impossible to get rid of. I fear that this development may be a democratic problem. When we no longer determine the intimate details of ourselves, who should know them, how to store them, and how to use them, we are at risk of developing a fundamental scepticism and distrust of our entire common system. No one can be surprised if people are gradually starting to resign, if we let the so-called warm community evolve to become a damp hand, or, as a Danish writer has said, it is no longer a big brother who is watching you, but a big mother. There must be a fundamental right either to be allowed to make reservations or, at least, to be notified when monitoring, monitoring and analysis are carried out far into the private spheres. While the debate has been more or less continuous since the accession of the Council of State, it has been more or less tense by the Government in relation to some of these challenges. It's a silence that we can't have anymore. This is a topic that needs to be discussed. Governments concluded a chronicle in VG a few weeks ago with the following: «Is the simplest camera? Is more personal information the solution to all challenges? Or is it time to think carefully about what we are going to do with all the recordings and personal data that are being stored?’ The answer to that is yes. Now it's time to think thoroughly about what development you want, and where you're going to set the limit. The right believes that now is not only the time to think, but actually the time to act. Does the Council of State think that today's detailed information collection in almost all areas of society is necessary to such an extent as we now see, and is it managed so that we can be secure against misuse of information and against snooping? What measures has the Government taken and will take in the field of privacy in order to reduce the negative impact of the collection and use of information for citizens? How will the Government use the technology that gives us privacy challenges, to get better control of the registers, to register the snorkels, actually use that technology to secure privacy, and not just to challenge privacy all the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1283	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for going through a good and important debate. But I'm a little surprised when he claims that it's been taken from my side and from the government's side on these questions. I would rather say on the contrary: it is rare that I have worked so much with an area that I have actually done with the privacy area for the three years I have been sitting, and I will come up with some of the things I have done. Then we're all waiting for a big NOU coming in January, from the Privacy Commission, which we were some about to sit down, to just light up the width of the different questions. I've been waiting for him in some of the areas just to get good advice on what to do. I think for shame we should allow the Commission to work, but that doesn't mean we're stuck with our hands falling into captivity and waiting. On the contrary, we have done a lot pending him, and I will take some of what we have done. As the interpellant sees it, privacy is a legal area that intervenes in all areas of society and activities that citizens pursue. And that's not for no reason. Because we're being recorded and filmed in more and more contexts. Information is collected and stored, usually with our knowledge, but also a few times without us knowing it, and at least very often without us thinking about it. Under the Data Protection Act, it is a fundamental right for individuals to be informed about the collection and registration of personal data. The best legal basis for the processing of personal data is the consent of data subjects. A consent ensures that the registration is voluntary, and that the data subjects know what is being registered, who is processing the data and what the information is used for. This gives each individual basis for ensuring their rights according to personal data laws, such as: transparency or the ability to impose requirements for deletion or correction. Personal data shall only be collected for specific purposes for which the controller is responsible. Without the consent of the registered or other legal basis, the information may not be used for purposes other than the purpose of collection. Norwegian case handlers of personal data shall be well aware of this. The interpellant gives the impression that there is a massive registration of sensitive personal data without the data subjects being made aware of it in any way. He also questions whether all this collection of personal data is necessary. This suggests that he almost believes that large parts of Norwegian business and administration are deliberately driving the illegal collection of personal data that they do not need in the company, contrary to the rules of the Personal Information Act. I don't think we have any grounds to claim it. Personal information laws have been in force for almost eight years. Data protection is targeted at information on the laws, and the obligations arising from the laws, both to public and private activities. In particular, the supervision of this work has focused on the rules on information security and internal control. The government has also allowed extra resources specifically for information activities, both related to children and young people and to small and medium-sized enterprises. Ten million. kr we are now using more privacy than what one did in 2005 – just for naming one number. The interpellant asks whether we can be sure that personal data is processed safely, so that we are confident against abuse. We can probably never be 100 pst. ensure, but there is a great deal of attention to the issue at the moment. There's at least one cure for lack of personal data, and there's public hanging in the media. The Tax Directorate’s accidental delivery of birth numbers — including the interpellant — resulted in a serious setback in trust. It can't afford the tax rate or other public agencies, and that's the best reason to keep track of personal data. My experience is that most companies want to protect the personal data they process, as much as possible, both for their reputation and for financial reasons, because the personal data of many companies have great financial value. They know that poor security of information can cause negative attention. The companies must take this responsibility seriously, and at least they must be willing to take the consequences of the breaches if they do not have the information. In some sectors, it has been suggested that the use they have of personal data is used to read information that they do not need. The interpellant gave good pictures of it. This may be in the banking industry, where one looks at the acquaintances of their accounts, or it may be, as the interpellant was about, that one in a hospital reads the journal to his colleague, to his neighbour, or to others who have an interest and a desire to go in and watch. I'm of the opinion that this is not entertainment. It should not be entertainment, and therefore we have done something about it. In order to reduce such swirling of personal data, the Government in December 2007 put forward a proposal for a new rule in health professionals and health records that prohibits the improper acquisition of personal data from patient records. There is no doubt that health professionals are not allowed to read, accept, search, or otherwise acquire or use information from patient journals without having a need to do so. The log of access to the file will be able to document any violation of the rules. Several hospitals today provide patients with access to such a log so that they can control it. Data protection must have an effective means of dealing with breaches of laws. We've just made a proposition about changes in personal data laws, which is going to give them even stronger tools here. The proposal is to allow the Data Protection Authority to charge for infringements of the laws and to streamline the collection of periodic penalty payments provided for by the Data Protection Supervisor in the event of a breach of the laws. It has not been possible to do so far. We believe that there will be some examples, not least in the administration, so that, in addition to the loss of reputation, they will have an economic reaction to the violation of the law, without the rule break necessarily being reported to the police. It is also proposed that supervision should be able to charge for violations of the rules of the law which, for various reasons, are not punishable. This could help to improve compliance and enhance awareness. In matters relating to access to the birth number, ID thieves are often mentioned. Using e.g. the birth number manages the ID thief e.g. obtaining credit in the victim's name. Such ID theft creates great difficulties for the victims, and it's not always easy to prove that one has been exposed to ID theft. At least when someone has shopped online or ordered credit in a person's name, there is a certain job to do to actually prove that it wasn't me, but it was another, and it takes not least much time for the one who has been frame. The post has just changed its address change notification procedures, so that it is now no longer possible to notify an address change by phone, only by using an electronic ID or by personal appearance with a valid identification. Then it becomes harder to report an address change and to re-address the victim's post, which we see is one of the methods you have used to obtain an ID. It'll make it harder. Businesses must also take their share of the responsibility in connection with ID robbery. Good identity-control procedures are decisive to prevent ID-theft. Then we have to remember again that birth numbers are a public information and should never be accepted as information. But we see that in many of the cases that have been up there, there are banks or others who have too easily accepted a very simple birth number as identification, but it doesn't have to be relevant. If I know when Bent Höie was born, that doesn't mean I'm Bent Höie, to say it carefully. More should be aware of that. The government wants to help those who have been exposed to ID theft, and we are preparing measures to make this clean-up job easier for the victims. Measures can be divided into two categories: they are the ones to prevent ID theft from happening, and they are the ones to repair when it has happened. I'm looking at the possibility of creating a central point of contact that can help the victims with information about what they should do when they are exposed to ID theft. I would also like to look at the victims' possibilities to prevent the admission of debts in their name. I do this, of course, in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Finance. We're several departments inside it. In order to facilitate the protection of privacy in public distribution, we have also developed a guide to the assessment of privacy implications. In many cases, privacy issues are forgotten. One comes in too late, and then it's expensive, or there's bad solutions that are proposed. Including privacy from the start is one tool for precisely ensuring privacy. We don't want a society where we're being monitored and registered almost all the time. Therefore, we are continuously working on new measures to strengthen the privacy of our citizens. The Data Protection Commission's report will provide us with an overview of the challenges we face and provide the basis for our further work. And as the interpellant is about, we have to use the technology to be privacy-promoting, not just privacy-retardant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1323	When I used the term "taus", I didn't mean to be silent in the sense that the Council of State has not been involved in the question and has taken action that makes sense, such as. setting up a Data Protection Commission. What has been our concern is that it may seem that the various departments of this government are allowed to operate on their own with the development of laws, registers, etc. which goes beyond what I experience is quite clear and clear views of the responsible State Council for Privacy. An example of this was a large round of questions in Stortingen a few weeks ago: the Ministry of Knowledge's draft consultation on the possibility of obtaining information relating to the establishment of a student register. One would create a basis and a basis for obtaining information, for example: related to students’ sexual orientation, religion, ethnic background, etc. This was a consultation draft that produced strong reactions from an overall opposition and not least from a good part of the organisations representing these groups. I felt that the responsible state council, the Minister of Knowledge, in the Questionnaire far on the way, the opposition met and wanted to change this. I would like the Council of State to respond to the fact that there is now a process under way in the Government to start again with blank sheets in this matter, and not least involve the various religious organizations, gay organizations, etc. in order to ensure that, first, such a student register does not record information which is not required to be recorded, which is also not relevant, and which may be harmful to the individual, and, second, which is perhaps so important and which actually affects today's student survey, that one obtains information in such a way that the collection itself is not perceived as an infringement of privacy or as discriminatory. One has also seen this in the tax registers case, as this government, as one of its first cases, changed the decision of the previous government to remove the possibility of issuing searchable tax registers. We constantly look at the unfortunate outcome of it, both in the privacy field, in relation to bullying and in relation to errors that are being published and hanging out with people for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1332	I expect that the matter with the Ministry of Knowledge would come, so I was in and I wrote out the record from the question hour where the Council of State Board Vegar Solhjell was present, and where he was in discussion with, among others. Representative Bent Höie. Since Bent Höie could not have listened to that debate, I shall simply read what the Council of State, Mr Solhell, said about this register, which is a proposal that has been being heard. Now it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge to follow up this matter, so if the representative Höie has questions about it, I suggest that they be addressed directly to the Ministry of Knowledge. What the Council of State Solhell said in oral question hours three weeks ago was that it would not be worth ‘created a student register where we are to record individual data on e.g. sexual orientation or religious perception. There are no suggestions from me, it's not in the letter of hearing and we're not going to do it, because it's not desirable. That answer I consider to be ‘registered’. What further comes out of that proposal, we'll have to wait and see from the Department of Knowledge's treatment. But then one has at least once again turned back on that claim. When it's about tax registers, right and we're very disagreeable about it. The reason why we have opened up the tax lists is simply that we will then have an open debate in this country on the development of, for example, the tax lists. differences. We saw very clearly that when the previous government avoided them from publicity, it was over, for example. journalists' ability to compare incomes in the east of Oslo and in the west of Oslo. It looks different groups up against each other, see what direction this country actually takes, getting open debates about it, actually dare this government. We've said that we're going to fight the differences, but we're going to publish the tax lists as one of the means to get a debate on the development of Difference Norway. That's one of the reasons why we do that. So just using the privacy argument when it comes to the tax lists doesn't work. There are also other reasons for publishing tax lists; a public debate on Difference Norway is just one of them. But I understand that the Right does not tolerate the fact that it gets the light of the day when they are in government, because the differences increase by the rich getting richer. When it comes to accessing patient records, I am happy to report that we are working further on the proposal for access and logging in patient records. It will be possible to listen in a short time. It will strengthen the prohibition of transparency and give patients greater rights of access to their own journals — also good suggestions from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1346	I want to thank the representative, Höie, for focusing on such an important question. It's a question that we have to ask at regular intervals, because the availability of information and the amount of information, both personal and personal, is greatly increasing. The possibility of disseminating non-proliferation information is increasing with technological developments. Privacy is about human rights, the right to privacy and the right to privacy to be entertained. I am of the opinion that it was right to close the tax lists in the last growing period – not because I did not want a debate on income differences in society or a development in society, nor because I wanted the tax lists to be out of the question of publicity. That's not what we did. What we did was we restricted the access. I'm actually very opposed to completely closed tax lists. It should be possible for journalists, for researchers, for all those who can use them for something constructive, to have access to the tax lists. We just said that the tax records should be on the net under the tax haven.no, and then all those else in the year needed to look at them had to go to the Equation Office. So a little more heavy, limited access, with a clear premise: you had to limit access to limit the adverse effects and avoid entertainment, and then you had to keep the lists open to those who needed to know. Because there are quite a few people who need to know what ordinary people serve. Those who perform analyses have absolutely a need and, for my part, can obtain insight into the tax lists. I think it's a shame that you've reopened so that people can sit on the PC for hours and check out what the neighbor, friends and famous waitress, and use that information as entertainment. What's worse about opening the tax lists is that it's possible to figure out who's the poorest boy in the class. It can be seen that there are families that over time are never going to be able to rise on the income side. I think it's a pity that this is happening, and that's another warning. I also think it's a little too bad that a socialist government doesn't see that this hits anyone in particular, and that this is the starting point for bullying, unfortunately. Back to the student register. I am very happy that it also became part of this debate. I think the father's over. I sat in the Questionnaire and heard the Minister of Knowledge reject the type of student register that will store information as one, first of all, does not need to store or have, and second, will contain very sensitive information. I'm very glad that it's rejected, but I'm excited about what's going on instead. Once again, we have many kinds of student registers. Maybe it should have been cleared even more of the systems you have, formal and informal? There is a lot of information from a child starting in kindergarten and leaving high school. Many attempts have been made — and will be made — to make this work properly, to have a good dialogue between kindergarten and school, between high school and high school, and between high school and high school, but within this good dialogue there is also sensitive information going on between schools. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that one must take into account the best interests of the child when assessing what is needed to provide information between different public institutions, but of course always with a view to not transmitting information that is not needed to be transmitted, and to being very careful with storage and obtaining parental approval. So there might be examples where you can't ask to know. For example, in child protection cases where there are concerns and suspicion that a child is suffering from a care failure, information between public institutions may have to be obtained. I mention this to the Minister of Renewal because it is important that the Ministry of Renewal has an overview of all departments, of what is happening in relation to kindergarten legislation, in schools, in health services and everywhere, so that a person is able to limit and monitor what is being disseminated by the person-sensitive information stored, and also disseminate information to employees about what they are allowed to use information. It's very much about that, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1361	There's a big challenge in what the interpellant is dealing with. The big difference between privacy and the debate that has taken place in the past decades is that the challenges are increasingly placed on private enterprises – and away from the state’s monitoring of citizens. When I read "1984" by George Orwell – they read it in the 1980s – I remember thinking that so much information about a human being is not possible to gather. Now it's possible. It is possible to realize the horror visions that are described there – and everything is largely done with very good intentions. In addition, you have a new trigger – you have new technologies that are now drivers. So when Avinor wants to dress naked when we're going to fly from the Gardermo, it's not because it makes us something safer, but they have the opportunity to dress us naked. I believe that an important principle in a society is that you should have the opportunity to move anonymously. Here I will give some examples to the Council of State. I agree that the Council of State has taken many good initiatives in its own department, but I can mention the transport sector. The state Road Service says that their dream is to have a piece in every car that can tell you where it is in the world. This government has allowed the NSB to monitor all areas, all wagons, at all times. Nor has this government taken any initiative to stop the Data Storage Directive, which really stores a lot of information about us citizens – about private ones. It is no longer possible to get paid in a bombardment. You're taken if you don't have the piece that records you automatically, and there's someone who knows you've passed. Then you boast of the Patient Register Act, which contains a lot that is also not positive for privacy. So the result is that if you have a friend in the bank, one in the bombardment and one nurse with a little bit of bad morals in your boyfriend, you can get a lot of information about what people in your closest circle are actually doing. And how many people are actually checking the hospital log? How do you get to meet if you want to do that? I have just been admitted to Aker. I tried bravely to find out on Aker's websites where I could ask to print out my journal and print out who saw it. I couldn't figure that out. I believe – and now the Minister of Health is here, so it is possible to say something to him – that Norwegian health professionals have a high degree of integrity. There are very few of them that I'm afraid to provide personal data to, but I think the awareness of the form in which the personal data is provided is quite low. Yesterday, I was on Ullevål and took blood samples. Then you sit in a room of eight people, and you don't get stabbed until you have given the number. And then you sit in the hall on Ullevål, where you get hundreds of names with the corresponding person number. I asked why I had to give my personal number in order to be stuck, and the answer was that it is a routine. You will also experience the same thing if you are admitted to a hospital and actually have a label on your wrist with your personal number on, which says who you are. Then you are nevertheless forced to give your personal number in full public, even though there are a lot of people who hear that you are doing it. I'm not worried that the nurse should provide information, but I don't think it's right to give his personal number in full public, with many listeners. So this is not an expression of a fear that the hospital's employees are going to go around with information about me, it's very conscious of the situation you're actually in when you give such information. It was the Left who presented the proposal for a Data Protection Commission. We have presented the proposal on privacy in the transport sector. We have put forward proposals to the municipalities that the supervisory responsibility for television surveillance should be given to them. We have made proposals in relation to the protection of privacy in health records, and we have made proposals in relation to the protection of privacy in health insurance. We have also submitted basic laws on the right to privacy. We have not even been in the justice sector here, where it is believed that registers and monitoring are what should solve all problems related to crime. I have to say that we have not met a stormy tribute to all the privacy proposals, but perhaps it is about to creep into the consciousness of other parties that this is also important to address. But what's most thoughtful after this debate, and after hearing all Bent Höie's examples of violations, is that there's still no one under this government who's been convicted of giving too much personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1384	My starting point is also George Orwell’s ‘1984’ – about what can happen to a society where you collect a lot of information about individuals. You shouldn't underestimate the snooping and the cozy people can have around the kitchen table, which is Bent Höie's approach. I can also recommend reading Kafka, to see what can happen. There is now an exciting piece on the Norwegian Theatre, «The Castle». It's about what happens to people when you no longer have control of the information about yourself. It's quite dramatic and unpleasant. I strongly recommend it. This is a problematic theme, and I think it's very good that Bent Höie takes it up. It's hard. When we are about to approach these issues, we need to approach them in relation to Norwegian legislation: how is the legislation in this area? I felt that interpellant, Bent Höie, only slightly affected the very principle: how is our legislation? I belong to those who believe that today it is too easy to set up registers and collect information, and that there is too little control over what is going to happen to the information that is being collected, both when it is to be deleted and how much can be collected. I believe there is a need for a quite comprehensive and new discussion on this. When the Data Protection Commission, which is at work, comes up with its position, we will probably get a case for Stortinget, so we will have the opportunity to discuss this. In addition, to the legislation: Is it good enough? Is it too easy to create registers today? Is it too easy today to collect information? My answer is that it probably is. We should tighten up. We have established a supervisory authority in this area. Then the next question will be: Is the mandate of the supervisory authorities good enough? Is the law so clear that they can perform their functions properly? I'm not sure that's good enough either. The supervision is good enough, for all things, but I am not sure whether the mandate and their mission are clear enough, so that they can do a good job. Therefore, the challenges for us will be legislation and the supervisory authorities. We should approach this with a view to tightening in and, in my opinion, making it more difficult. This applies not only to public registers but also to private registers. The Committee is currently examining the annual report of the Data Protection Authority. It's also a good opportunity for us to go in and discuss on a more fundamental basis. The annual notification is in the committee, and we will make an adjustment if not for that long. I sincerely hope that there we can also continue the debate that the interpellant Bent Höie has invited to here and now, and look at the principle issue in relation to legislation and the ability of the Data Protection Authority to follow up, monitor and supervise in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1397	When in my post I chose a more example-based approach and not a principle approach related to the law, it was just like that. because we will have a good opportunity to deal with the legal aspects of this, both through a comprehensive Document No. 8 proposals that have been put forward by the Right, which will be dealt with together with the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority, and in the follow-up to the NOU. But these examples, to me, are the living proof that the law and the system that we have today, which the representative Reikvam had in mind, is not strong enough, because too many people feel that sensitive personal data is being compromised. The Council of State was prepared for the issue of the student register to come up, and referred to the fact that the Council of State, Solhjell, had said in the Questionnaire that such a student register would not be established. The answer from this Council of State was in no way reassuring to me, because the Council of State further said that all questions relating to this matter must be addressed to the Minister of Knowledge. That was exactly what was one of my main points, namely that it does not seem that the Ministry of Renewal has a sufficient degree of internal penetration within the Government in those matters where privacy is actually being eroded while we are waiting for the Privacy Commission. In the case of the student register, it is noteworthy that the Minister of Renewal here almost defends the Ministry of Knowledge, while the Ministry of Renewal in the hearing opinion writes the following: ‘We are somewhat surprised that data on sexual orientation or religious beliefs about primary school students are being recorded, even though the registration will be pseudonymised after a period. Norway does not have a tradition of this type of registration, and we will state that there are significant challenges to the establishment of such a register with such content.’ So this is the Ministry of Renewal's official position on what the Ministry of Knowledge has sent to the hearing. For me, it is not enough that the person who is now, incidentally, the State Council of the Ministry of Knowledge, says that such a register will not be established as long as the same Ministry of Knowledge has sent a bill to consult which provides a basis both for the establishment of such a register and for obtaining this type of information. Once the home is established, it is only a matter of time before the register arrives and the home is used. I would like to ask the Minister of Renewal to confirm or confirm whether the Ministry of Renewal is now in a new process in this matter, so that we get this on a positive track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1413	I would like to thank you for a good debate and address some of the issues raised by the representative Rolf Reikvam, whether the supervisory authorities have a good enough mandate, as he said. At least they have a lack of sanctions. It is precisely because the Government has now given them sanctions — for example: the possibility of using a fee. I have a conversation with the Data Protection Authority, among others. understood that there is a way of establishing administrative practices, for example, in the case of the monitoring of schools by a camera, where a broadcaster is allowed to set up a camera for a reason. But what time one monitors the students is something completely different. Data protection may then enter and use fees in order to establish a management practice related to it. We also give them the ability to make examples in other areas. It will mean a more pointed hold and a penalty option, a whip, in privacy work. It also applies to improving the effectiveness of the periodic penalty payment, which one has had the opportunity to do, but it has been a little unclear who would be able to enforce it. Now, by adding it to the central government collection centre, an effective collection of the periodic penalty payments will also be achieved. Then first there will also be a real sanction – a tool against it. The cases referred to when the Ministry of Knowledge was blatantly involved are not about the absence of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration or not lack of throughput, but simply about who is constitutionally responsible to the Stortinget in a matter that has been sent out on the hearing of the Ministry of Knowledge. There is the Minister of Knowledge, both in relation to the hearings my department has had, and to what Bent Höie has understood in this matter, very clearly and clearly from the Spokesman's Chair of the Stortinge said something about what that register is and what it isn't. To me that was a good enough answer. I hope that in the future will be for Bent Höie too. Otherwise, the most important thing we have done is to focus very much on prevention – information. We might be a little bit too naive here in the north. We believe well in each other and not least in the management of businesses. We believe everyone else will take care of our privacy. The example of Bent Höie is a good example of the opposite. We still have to believe that trust is important. But then businesses must be aware of what is imposed on them, public administration must be aware of what is imposed on them, but also we as citizens must take responsibility for our own and for the privacy of others. We have done a job to ensure the Data Protection Agency has more resources both to work preventively and to have sanctions. We are taking action against ID robbery – not least the work on eID will be an important and important piece to ensure the secure identification and management of privacy information. The proposal for a law prohibiting patient snooping is another measure. So, as I said, there are many good proposals from the Privacy Commission that we are going to sit down and evaluate and keep coming to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1422	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 7 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1438	As mentioned in the interpellation, every year 15 000 to 16 000 people in Norway are affected by strokes. In addition, approx. 5,000 of so-called drops, which are often a warning about strokes. Brain stroke means both blood clots and bleeding in the brain, and this is the biggest single cause of severe disability and death. In 2006, 3583 people died of stroke at an early stage after the battle. The proportion of patients who die is about 25 pst. But both that and the degree of disability and other injuries depend on if patients arrive at the right place in time if they receive the right treatment if they receive equal treatment if we do not follow up on the results and quality of treatment My concern is that not all stroke patients today receive optimal treatment — that there is too much distance between what we can do and what we do in the individual cases. The first question is, do patients arrive in time? In order to be rescued and assisted with optimal treatment, the site must be impacted within three hours. But every minute counts, so the sooner the better. Every minute in the first hours after a stroke, one to two million brain cells die. We therefore need a ‘map’ for how all stroke patients in all parts of the country should be assured to reach within three hours to an optimal treatment site. We have developed such a map in terms of heart attack, and there has been a sharp decline in mortality in the last decade. What's important to know about stroke is that it's dangerous to start with an advanced medical treatment in the ambulance to dissolve clots in the brain, because you can't know if the patient has a bleeding until you've done tests that you have to do in the hospital. You use imaging to do that, because otherwise, you can risk a clot getting worse for bleeding, or bleeding gets so serious that it ends up with a sudden death. They must therefore be sent quickly to the treatment site — within three hours. An example of improving this map to get this ‘motorway’, so that all patients should arrive at the treatment site within three hours, is that we use helicopters. As I've understood it on the air ambulance, it's not used or used to a small extent on stroke patients. There's definitely talk about lifesaving treatment here. When we draw such a map of how all patients are going to get there, we have to see if it can be used by telemedicine in some parts of the country, that we can set up centres where we can be in direct contact with advanced environments that can ensure that patients get the best treatment even if they live away. The second question I asked is, are patients coming to the right place? It is important to stress that in order to perform advanced treatments for strokes, patients have to come to what I would call a primary impact centre, i.e. a centre with an acute part that has an absolute daily readiness, involving neurologists and the use of imaging technology such as CT and MR, as it is called in the professional language, to gain the necessary and accurate knowledge of the nature of the stroke – about the patient’s stoppers, bleeding and where they are sitting – in order to initiate active and successful treatment. It is dangerous to initiate this treatment without being able to follow the exact step by step with all of this device. After emergency treatment has been completed, resources need to be immediately available to initiate what is called active mobilisation, early-stage rehabilitation to prevent and reduce injuries and disability, for example. of speech and indigestion. These strokes also require the use of logos, ergot therapists, artichoke nurses, physiotherapists, etc. for the immediate mobilisation. According to a survey conducted by the Norwegian brain impact registry in Trondheim, 54 hospitals are performing emergency treatment for stroke patients. According to that survey, approx. half of these hospitals are neurologists, and only 40 pst. have logopeds for active mobilization immediately after the emergency phase. 20 pst. by these stroke units, the 54 stroke hospitals, are also not fully set up for active mobilisation. In order for patients to receive the best treatment, they need to get to the right place, i.e. they must come to a hospital that can provide optimal treatment. So not all of these 54 hospitals are set up for today. This is about life and death, and not about local hospitals being able to hold their patients. It is therefore important to draw the ‘map’ of how patients should arrive on time, that it is clear, unambiguous and without doubt that they are transported immediately, without delay, to the hospitals that are set up as what I have defined here as primary impact centres. I know several examples of hospitals that are close to each other, that is, where there are no questions of distance, yet patients sort out in different hospitals, even though one of them is the place that is set up so that you can act as a primary battle center and perform optimal treatment. I hope these are issues that the Department will look at, linked to the fact that they have started – very affordable – a work on national impact treatment guidelines, which the Directorate is now working on. The question of proper treatment involves several things. The first term is to get to a primary battle center, which must have a well-trained, powerful and efficient organization, which is hard to wear in too many places. There, patients will receive blood-closing medicine, either intravenously or directly into the stoppers. But if you use imaging, etc. If you find that you do not get far enough with that type of treatment at the primary stroke centres, the patient will have to go on within two hours — i.e. Within six to eight hours total — to regional battle centres where neurosurgery and catheter can be used, as it is called, some pipes that can be wonderfully traversed through the blood vessels to treat difficult clots and bleeding. We do not have this in many places in the country, nor can we build up many places in the country, but it is possible to reach four–five such regional centres within a couple of hours when problems have been located in the primary battle centres that cannot be solved without more advanced assistance, including in particular. of neurosurgery. It is important that such good treatment as we have the opportunity to provide in Norway can be given to all patients. It is a problem today that thrombolysis – this advanced blood clotting medicine – has not been tested on those over 80 years of age, and 45 pst. of patients over 80 years of age. It is also not recommended to treat those over 80 years of age with thrombolysis. I believe it is important that the new national guidelines establish – I understand that it depends on the patient’s general condition if they want to tolerate this type of treatment – that individual assessments should be made, and that adequate expertise in the regional and primary stroke centres is needed to assess whether thrombolysis can be initiated even in patients over 80 years of age. It has to do with equal treatment, it has to do with assessing people individually and not as a group, for which there is no basis, as it is now developing among those over 80 years of age in terms of health. There are many more things to consider here with regard to the treatment phase of rehabilitation in the municipalities after the first mobilisation of the stroke units. I see from the speaking time that we must come back to that in the debate. I want to raise one question at the end, and that is whether we can better monitor the results and quality of treatment. The construction of a new brain impact register has been started in Trondheim, at St. Olav's hospital. It's important. According to the professional environments I have had contact with when I prepared for the interpellation, it turns out that in German cities there are 25 pst. receiving thrombolysis. In Norway, I think that is the area that belongs to Haukeland, which is best located; there is 14 pst. which receives thrombolysis, while Oslo is down to 3 p.p., according to the trade unions, and even lower is the average in the country. We need to get more knowledge through a brain impact register about whether these numbers are inclusive, where they are the worst, and how we can improve and ensure all the good quality, so that more lives can be saved and more people can get out of a more functional brain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1490	As the interpellant was in, this is an important matter to discuss, and I think it's good that there is an involvement in the Storting for a disease, for cases, that go every year to be among the most frequent causing death and disability. The disease is often a significant burden on those affected and on those affected. One third of those who have a stroke die within three months, and almost everyone who is hit is injured. As the representative of Bøhler points out, it is approx. 15,000 people in this country who have a stroke every year - three out of four are over 70 years old. The number of strokes – and I think that is an important information – could increase by 50 pst. in the next 20 years, mainly because the number of older people will increase sharply in the same years. The offer for patients with strokes is not good enough everywhere. There are variations in treatment provision and new knowledge about treatment has not been used on a full scale. The government's objective is to ensure equal treatment for all, irrespective of their place of residence. Of course, this also applies to stroke patients. For this reason, the Directorate-General for Health has been mandated to establish national guidelines to address the whole treatment chain, from prevention and diagnosis to treatment and rehabilitation. The guidelines shall be ready for use in the autumn of 2009. In 2008, regional health businesses were given the task of launching processes to improve the supply of stroke victims, in line with new knowledge of emergency treatment. We know that there is a lot to get from prevention among those at risk of stroke. Therefore, it is important that the population has knowledge of risk factors, and what to do if they are witnesses that someone is being affected. New knowledge shows that early intervention with blood thinners — what the representative mentioned several times as thrombolysis — in those who have symptoms of stroke may significantly reduce the extent of brain damage. Health professionals at all levels also need more knowledge so that risk patients can receive preventive treatment, and those who suspect strokes are taken seriously and get help quickly. It is well documented that treatment in individual stroke units reduces the mortality of strokes. The establishment of such departments is therefore of great importance in providing a good treatment for stroke patients in Norway. I want an offer of stroke unit to be available to anyone who needs it. And as Bohemia was also involved, today it's its own stroke at 43 of the 54 hospitals that treat acute strokes. Three out of four acute stroke patients are treated in such a unit. So we're doing a good job, but we're not in the goal. Therefore, the national guidelines shall include recommendations that all acute stroke patients should be treated in a unit of slaughter. In Sweden, which is likely to have the best level of treatment for stroke in Europe, the coverage rate is about 85 pst. I also believe that we will have – and should have – a debate on whether 54 hospitals treating acute strokes are too many, as interpellant Bohemia was also involved in its interpellation. An opportunity to assess this is when the proposal for national guidelines is available from the Health Directorate. There are major interaction challenges associated with this patient group, which often require close follow-up and cross-level services. We know that today’s organisation and funding of healthcare does not support good interaction for such patient groups. That is why I have started work on the interaction reform. In April 2009, I will present a proposal for economic and legal instruments that stimulate good interaction between municipalities and hospitals. The government's goal is to ensure rehabilitation for everyone who needs it. The national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation for the period 2008 to 2011 shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives in this area. Knowledge of good rehabilitation needs to be disseminated both to specialist health services and to primary health services. Among other things, we know that cooperation between stroke unit and primary health care – with emphasis on multidisciplinary teams and early rehabilitation in the municipality – significantly improves the functional level of stroke patients, compared to traditional hospital or rehabilitation care. This includes, among other things: This we have examples of through good, exciting interaction projects, interaction attempts, for example. at Søbstad Hospital in Trondheim, where the municipality of Trondheim, St. Olav's hospital and Health Mid-Norway have jointly created an intermediate department, a district medical centre – here it is that dear children have many names – where very good results are to be shown in relation to rehabilitation for patients who have had battles. Finally, good national medical quality records are essential to document quality in treatment and to carry out research and clinical improvement. The Ministry established the Norwegian brain impact register in 2005, where Health Mid-Norway RHF is responsible for the data processing. The register is one of 12 national medical quality records which have been provisionally decided upon. The general rule is that the quality records must be based on the consent of the persons to be registered. This is a challenge for stroke patients, because they often lack consent skills. Therefore, the register is currently only used as a processing register in Central Norway. National health registry project is now examining a proposal to establish a person-identifiable cardiovascular registry, with several underlying cardiovascular quality records. The model can be compared with the Cancer Register. It is therefore now considered to propose that the Norwegian brain impact register can become a person-identifiable register under a national cardiovascular registry. In that case, this will require a change in the law, and it may therefore take some time before it can all be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1516	There was a lot of positive in the Council's response. In particular, I think the description of how to build up rehabilitation in the municipalities in interaction with outpatient teams was good, and how the Council of State aims to create better models for it through the interaction reform. In the case of the 54 hospitals that are currently treating stroke patients and act as a striker, I am also pleased that the Council of State announced that he would consider it in the context of the treatment of these guidelines. It is obvious to me that when they are going to be primary impact centres and be able to carry out accurate diagnosis and proper treatment of stroke patients, they must be built up in the way I mentioned in my post. About half of these hospitals are not, and it will be difficult to build up that experience and the well-functioning organisation so many places. Of course, this must be combined with the timely arrival of patients. When the Council of State mentions that three out of four stroke patients are being treated at stroke – it is today 43 out of 54 hospitals that have what they call stroke – I think the jumping point is how much of the patients that have been assessed on a professional basis by neurologists in terms of CT, X-ray, etc. relative to the need for thrombolysis or an accurate blood clot-resolution treatment. There are the numbers I've collected from the trade unions, so low in Norway that that part is ominous. I think that's what I'm dealing with with the setup of these primary impact centres at these 54 hospitals. There it is important to go further, and also in what I said about almost half of the stroke patients over 80 years, are not being evaluated for the advanced treatment of thrombolysis at all today. There were also positive signals about a national health quality register in this area. I think it's important, as the Council of State was about, that this becomes person-identifiable in the sense that you have to follow the patient course here to build up such a quality that is built up in the Cancer Register, which should be exemplary. Then you have to follow the patient treatment in an accurate way, just as the Cancer Registry has done in all years without any collision or privacy issues. I am pleased that the Council of State announced that he would come back to this and a detailed assessment of the consent challenge that was mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1529	Just two brief comments from my side. I am listening to what the representative from Bohemia says about the professional requirements that should be imposed on such a unit of impact. At the same time, I ask for understanding that at this point I do not feel that I have any basis for concluding, but I suggest that we now have a process going on in the Health Directorate on national guidelines. I assume that this process includes important occupational settings, and the aim of which is to arrive at comprehensive guidelines on prevention, emergency treatment and rehabilitation, i.e. the whole of our treatment provision for people with strokes. I believe that when we receive such a professional recommendation, we have the basis for discussing structure. I would therefore not like to say at this point that I agree that a stroke unit must have it and that speciality or that and the medical device, although I do not want to exclude that the reasoning given here by representative Bohemia can be important. So just a few comments about the national quality register: it is important to point out that the draft government budget proposed earmarking 32 million. kr to the quality register area just to ensure the establishment of national medical quality records in key disciplines. And then we have that experience, actually from both the stroke register and the myocardial infarction register, that it can be difficult to have these records based on the fact that we have to get consent from the patient, simply because these are patients who are very often in a situation where you don't have consent competence. To meet that need, we are now considering the establishment of a person identifier-based national cardiovascular registry, with associated quality records, where the brain stroke registry can also be part of the whole. When I say we're going to evaluate this, it's not in that it's an assessment that's going to take months and years. There is money allocated to establish the quality register, and we are very busy keeping pace in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1540	The interpellant's focus on impact and impact treatment is a positive thing to lift into Stortinget. Many know, are affected by, or are going to be affected by, this ludicrous disease, which comes as lightning from the clear sky, and which affects 15,000 per year. Governments were involved in prevention, and that is of course important. But when the battle strikes, everyone will have the best possible treatment and the best possible prospects. It was only a few years ago that getting a blow was something that was either a dead one or suffered great damage, either in terms of movement or speaking ability. Thrombosis treatment has made it possible to get through a stroke with less damage, which is very positive. The treatment at the Rikshospitalet, as the interpellant mentioned, is another way to get through it, which a few can benefit from. The question the interpellant asks is whether we can offer treatment to anyone who should have it, offer an equivalent offer and be well enough covered throughout the country, or whether this is only for those who live near the larger hospitals. Before treatment is started, things need to be clarified, for example: whether this is a bleeding, which may also be the cause of the stroke. That means you have to have a CT or scan your brain. It also applies to having that equipment nearby. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is In this treatment, the time factor is also important, because treatment should take place within certain timeframes in order to be effective. The fact that we are now gaining good knowledge in Norway can spread to our neighbours. Norway’s experience can help other countries increase their level of competence. That is, we have to export the knowledge we know works. I want to take an example. The hospital in Vestfold has been cooperating with a city in Arkhangelsk since 2007, and the stroke unit at the Hospital in Vestfold has helped to increase the knowledge of health professionals there regarding emergency treatment and rehabilitation. The mortality rate in Russia is significantly higher than in Norway, and there was a great need for knowledge from us. They have now built up a rehabilitation unit where they use our principles, and they have got good results. They have reduced bedtime and given many patients a better daily life. We should be proud of this. So it's important that we get even better so that we can export even more. Rehabilitation after stroke is important and is done with good results in many places. I can also refer to the SSR Coastal Hospital at Stavern, which is a multi-disciplinary, with good results. They interact with the municipality of Larvik in terms of competence and knowledge, because the municipality has, because it wants to benefit from joint treatment services, set up its rehabilitation centre, Presteløkka, right nearby. They can then use common competences and exploit them for the benefit of the patient. In the case of rehabilitation, it appears that a person must have a good multidisciplinary composition of offers in order for the patient to recover his/her functions. Choosing patients who have the potential for training, who want to do it themselves, and who have the opportunity to do it, is also part of that image. Not all patients are rehabilitating, but habilitation is equally important, not least in the new everyday life – again interdisciplinary and holistic. The coast has as its motto to see the fresh in man, and in the situation in which a percussion is in, this is important. Ambulance teams, as the Council of State mentions, are important, and there are several good examples of it from the same location. One side of the matter, which neither the Council of State nor the interpellant is involved, is psychological. Many – if not all – experience a stroke as traumatic and exhilarating, and they become both angry and despairing, not least they get a great deal of grief at what they have lost. Changes in self-image, losing the grip on your own body and mental changes are common. Loss of functions — in many cases permanent losses — is not easy to deal with. Therefore, in a treatment perspective, one must also have the psychological aspects. For relatives, too, this is a great impression, and steps must be taken to meet the patient and care for the psychological side of the battle, in order to motivate and create a way of life. Therefore, the treatment of species is more than just the acute situation. It is important to survive the acute phase, but in the long term it is important to regain the quality of life. It's a challenge, especially when it's about the goal is to apply to everyone, regardless of their place of residence. That is why I look forward to the national guidelines, which have also been notified by the State Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1566	The interpellant addresses a very important issue for a relatively large patient group. The Council of State also responds in a way that actually gives me confidence that we will be able to do something in the future. The most important thing in this case is that you can agree on something, that you can agree on what kind of action to put in, and when to put in. That's exactly where the trade unions come in. We must always listen to what is out there, and also look beyond the borders of the country. It is not that we need to reinvent the powder in Norway at all times. It could also be we have things to pick up from outside. In the case of strokes, there are few cases where it is more important to start treatment more quickly. It is clear that when the ambulance arrives, or the first person comes to the scene, it is important to know as soon as possible what this is about, so that treatment can be started. We have seen that, among other things, the current air ambulance service and the other ambulance service are better and better equipped. It is obvious that, in the future, even better communication equipment and technical equipment will be put in place in the ambulances, enabling treatment to be started even earlier than is currently being done. The interpellant also raises the issue: how many hospitals are actually going to run this, and are they well rusted out at the 54 hospitals that are offering this treatment today? It's very difficult for politicians to answer. I think that we should also have a review of the link to the professional. I think it's pretty hard for us politicians to say that one should have this offer so and so many places, there's it top, there's not top. I actually think that one of the most important things you need today is research-based knowledge. And then we'll see what kind of results this gives, and then it's important to be able to follow the patient over time. Then you will see, among other things: the long-term effects of the treatment offered. I think the whole treatment chain here is very important, from the ambulance comes, or the patient is found, and until rehabilitation or rehabilitation can be started. Because we're also going to assume that especially in the case of stroke patients, there are a lot of people who can't be rehabilitated back to who they were before they had a stroke. Then we also have to assume that you should be able to be habilitated/rehabilitated back to a better everyday life, not necessarily that all rehabilitation in this country must have a healthy focus. Actually, it's not like that. I think that multidisciplinaryism, such as, among other things, The representative, Mandt-Bartholsen, was in the room, it's very important that you have people who can help in terms of functionality, physiotherapy, ergotherapy, and audio-pedagogues to get that back on track. I believe that an important point, which was also raised by the representative Mandt-Bartholsen, has to do with relatives, because it's clear that you should have a working day even after you've been discharged from the hospital, a stay that might take a relatively long time for many patients. I also look forward to getting guidelines in place. I believe that these guidelines, on which the Council of State was involved, must be based to a large extent on professionalism. We have to set up a circuit where we look at where to provide these services, make sure that the patient is in focus at all times, and has a proper equipment – because at least there should be no problem in this country. Getting good enough equipment for Norwegian hospitals is done to a large extent, but we obviously have great challenges ahead of us. Furthermore, I think it is absolutely necessary that we also look at the number of places in this field. It must not be that on death and life absolutely everywhere we offer a service. But who is to offer it and where it is to be offered, I believe that it should be assessed on the basis of professional criteria and not on the basis of political wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1589	There is good reason to put the theme of impact treatment on the Stortinges agenda. At least two factors have changed over time, making the theme more topical. One is the frequency of strokes, which is not because the general state of health of the population is getting worse, rather on the contrary. This is because there is an increasing proportion of us who are reaching a high standard of life, and with increasing life expectancy, of course, increasing the risk of this type of problem. So it's a surplus phenomenon rather than a deficit phenomenon. The second reason why it is important to go through the field is, of course, that knowledge development in stroke management has been very positive. We are now able to prevent extensive damage to an extent that we were not before, and we are also able to repair damage to an extent that we were not before. There is therefore every reason to discuss how knowledge can be optimally used, including the number of places in the country to provide highly specialised treatment. I said that there is good reason to put the theme on the Stortinges agenda. At the same time, there is reason to recall that there is a difference between a congress of medical specialists and a big debate — at least there should be a difference. In the first of the two health priorities studies carried out in the 1980s and 1990s respectively, we pointed out that an instrument that could be appropriate in the development of national standards for treatment in different areas could be so-called consensus conferences. This means calling together all the highly specialised professional communities we have in the country and asking them to discuss what they think should be the common national standards in this area. Now, the Council of State has given a mandate to develop national guidelines, but this does not, of course, mean that one cannot also use that instrument and invite the professional communities we have to discuss it together. Anyone who knows medical developments will know that there are very often different professional perceptions of what are the best practices, and then it is important to take time to discuss a national consensus on this. So on the rehabilitation aspect: we have had relatively many debates in Stortinget over the last few years about the rehabilitation challenges. These debates have largely resulted in a high degree of verbal agreement. For example, in the budget setting two years ago by a unanimous Health and Welfare Committee, it was written that the next major focus of Norwegian health policy must be rehabilitation. It is not difficult to achieve verbal agreement, but it seems very difficult to come from verbal agreement to action in this area. In response to the National Strategy for Rehabilitation, the Council of State indicated. National strategies are, in reality, the lowest level of ambition available in Norwegian health policies. National strategies sound so fine, but in reality it is the lowest possible level of ambition, because there is no concrete plan for what to achieve at the time. That is why I think it is high time to upgrade the rehabilitation challenge both in this patient group and in other patient groups that depend on follow-up after their lives are raised, to upgrade it from a strategy to a concrete action plan with concrete objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1602	With my background as a long-term health politician and my experience as a physiotherapist, it was too tempting to take part in this debate. I think the interpellant has found out how important it is for those affected by strokes to get early treatment. He has also learned how many people are affected every year, 15,000 people. It's as many as it lives in a medium-sized Norwegian city. It was St. Olav's hospital in Trondheim that was first out establishing its own unit of impact at the hospital. The result was overwhelmingly good, more survived and fewer received complications. Good cross-disciplinary cooperation between different occupational groups was a bit of the secret behind the good outcome, as well as the rapid start of treatment. The representative of Boehler’s emphasis on the need for rapid and good treatment for stroke patients cannot be sufficiently emphasised. It is fully supported. It is absolutely necessary, it is absolutely essential. Fortunately, the good results from Central Norway spread to several other places in Norway. The Christian People's Party agrees that it should be a goal that all stroke patients should be treated by their own stroke units. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that there should be equal treatment throughout the country, and that there should be no discrimination based on age, gender and not least residence. The representative of Boehler is also entitled to the fact that the patient’s ability to recover and return to his normal life depends entirely on a good rehabilitation offer. It starts at the hospital and continues in the first line service. I am using the opportunity to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that it announced the conversion of the funding system for physiotherapists can lead to the municipality losing the key staff that is so important in a rehabilitation process. I would also like to mention a group that is often down-prioritized, namely logo-peders. These are crucial for stroke patients who have lost their speech. Psychiatric health must be included, and the relatives must be taken more seriously. The public has an important role to play in terms of stroke patients and their rehabilitation services. However, the Christian People's Party has also been committed to ensuring that today's rehabilitation institutions run by private and non-profit actors can continue to provide a good rehabilitation offer to patients. Norway needs legislation to ensure a diversity of rehabilitation measures. Ideal rehabilitation institutions go bankrupt due to the fact that the state reduces the daily price and provides arbitrary conditions for long-term operations, very important skills and knowledge will be lost, and patients will lose a good deal – completely across what the interpellant wants. Today's tendering policy threatens the supply of many patients. The non-profit organisations in the health and care sector do not have the same financial muscles as large, commercial and state actors and often do not compete in the bidding process. This weakens the possibility of a better, stronger and more flexible provision of rehabilitation. The public depends on a good offer to the patients. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed that non-profit institutions and businesses should be guaranteed a derogation from the requirement to submit tenders under public procurement law. Of course, the general requirements of transparency and reprobability will apply, but we need the long-term and predictability of ideal institutions, which they do not have under today's legislation. I would like to have had time to say something about prevention, as the Council of State was about, but in the end, I just want to support the interpellant in that it is crucial with rapid treatment, early and good follow-up. In particular, it is important to safeguard the competence and quality of voluntary organisations. I am convinced that these will be important contributors to the national qualification register that the interpellant wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1621	15 000 to 16 000 people are hit every year. That's the third most important cause of death and disability. And as State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, it can increase by up to 50 pst. over the next 20 years. When we look at the number, it's a people's disease. We all know about friends, neighbors or someone close to us who's been hit by it. The Health and Welfare Committee has received an enquiry from the Landsföreningen für Schlagrämde. This refers to the randomity of treatment, regardless of place of residence. According to their letter to the committee, the mortality rate at impact is 8 pst. in Bergen and Trondheim, while in areas within Health South-East it may be up to 28 pst. There are very big differences. According to the letter from the National Association of Battles, it is actually almost the greatest risk sport to have battles in areas where there are most hospitals. What has struck me when I read about the problem of strokes is the importance of having competence at all stages – for time it is so important – from the phone coming in at the center, that someone knows what to ask for in the ambulance, in the hospital, and that you start rehab, not as usual after a month or two, but after one minute or two, that is, at once. It has to be quality everywhere, and you have to get started in time. Those who accept enquiries, those who carry the person, those who treat the person, must constantly know what to do, and start a rehabilitation that can bring the person back to the most normal life. Hanssen State Council said that there was difficulty in obtaining consent for those affected by the kind. What has struck me in some areas of health care is that when you look at psychiatry, it has been a taboo area for those who have had mental disorders. I believe that over time it has made the treatment of mental illness pending. Now we've had a stepping-up plan, fortunately. In terms of impact, I think we can have some of the same problem. It's actually a little taboo, even if it's a people's disease. We know that there are some functions that are getting worse than before the person was hit, even though he has come back again in a big month. In many ways, it could be a small forgotten group that doesn't cry out loud. To me, the figures found in the letter to the committee were quite alarming. The fact that you are going to have national guidelines is very good. It must be urgent, because it must be a security for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, to have a good and safe offer and to have the best offer that can be made. As we can see from the letter of consultation we have received, in fact, in the most populous areas it is most random which one gets. This is from a letter, so I don't know if it's right, but at least there's a question mark about this by the National Association for Victims. It is really a key point for the Center Party that no matter where you live, you have to be sure that there is competence among those who accept the phone, in the ambulance, in the hospital you come to, and that it is a rehabilitation right away. It should be the same either one living in Oslo, in Bergen, in Stage or in Finnmark: security for everyone, regardless of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1637	Everyone has been very pleased that the interpellant has seen the focus on this important topic, the treatment of people who are the victims of a stroke. There are three elements that I think we can say are the most important in the context of the treatment of cerebral bats. The most important thing that many people have been about is early treatment in the emergency phase. As a point two, one may say that one must follow up with a qualitatively good treatment after the acute phase, and then one must have a good and rapid follow-up and rehabilitation. Tempo and speed are important. In practice, acute treatment in the acute phase implies that treatment with thrombolysis, which has been described here by the interpellant, must already take place in the ambulance. This means, in turn, that the ambulance must be manned with qualified personnel and have equipment to make thrombolysis treatment possible. When it comes to speed here, it's like one of the previous speakers was in, talking in minutes – it's not about hours once. So getting the quick treatment already in the ambulance and having qualified personnel there is important. So the interpellant points out that hospitals treating patients must have strokes — units specially adapted to staff and equipment for the treatment of these stroke patients. I totally agree with that. I myself have been the director of a local hospital for many, many years – not many, but eleven years at least. An impact unit was created several years ago. Now I don't think all the stroke units are identical, but at least my experience was that it was very important to have such an offer for the treatment and training of patients, and especially important was it with qualified personnel. As many have been here before, equal treatment, what does that mean? At least I think it's very important that the vast majority of hospitals that we already have around today have specializations like this. Mi experience is that such stroke units fit well into a local hospital. It is therefore important that local hospitals do not be built up in such a way that such literally vital supplies around our long-term country disappear. Equal treatment can't happen in any other way than that we have a decentralised and good supply. If the offer is not satisfactory wherever such an offer is to be made, the offer has to be upgraded, not removed. There can be no method of equalising treatment in a country such as Norway. So a little bit to what the interpellant said. He actually beats a blow for a new patient registry. We in the Left, as they want to know, have asked many questions about all these records, not least within the health area. Our point of being skeptical is that we always get a discussion about what happens to privacy in such cases. But it is clear that a register is important in many contexts, not least within research. We have cancer records, and we also have many other registers. We have a lot of records. I think what the Council of State was up to is an important point. He has great adversities when it comes to this with consent competence. It is very important that it be taken into account, and that privacy in such debates really gets the emphasis it should have. I think we need to bet on processing, not on creating new registers that we probably don't get the full benefit of at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1660	I thank you for many good posts, with great commitment. There's a couple of points I'd like to comment on. The first concerns the question of whether it is a theme for the Stortinget to discuss the quality of 54 hospitals. If you draw a parallel to other themes that we, quite correctly, have gone into the Storting, for example. geriatri in the care of the elderly, where we have said that there is a need for a commitment to be able to provide patients in the best possible way, I am a little worried that this group of stroke patients has not received the same attention so far, and that is why these questions are too new for us when we start discussing the quality of these 54 hospitals. I don't want to go into a professional detailed discussion, but I want to know that in the place where stroke patients with strokes come, there must be competence to treat disease in the brain, to diagnose disease in the brain accurately. We have to make sure that the patient can be given the best treatment. That's why I'm questioning that at half of these 54 hospitals, it's not neurologists who can combine imaging with precise analysis of how to approach the individual patient. I am afraid that in the other hospitals there is more emphasis on active mobilization, that more care is taken of the patient in the battle phase and active mobilization afterwards. I mentioned figures that show the difference between the Haukeland area, which has a very active attitude towards the use of thrombolysis, and the Oslo area, and that the representative Battle Violence Vedum commented that it is not only in pig-grown strokes that there may seem to be a great difference in treatment methods, but also in densely built-up areas. I also mentioned parallel numbers for Germany. The main concern, whether we have the competence to treat stroke patients with the necessary expertise and accuracy and ability to diagnose at all the hospitals they're going to, we need to be able to discuss at Stortinget, I think. It's not a professional level of detail, but as the representative for Wage, we need to make sure that we use the new and great knowledge we're building up, and that we use it optimally. It's at the level I want us to have the discussion. It's like that around the country that somewhere there's a hospital that's close to each other, and some patients are hospitalized without this advanced treatment, patients who could easily have passed on to the next hospital, while elsewhere in the country may be so that you actually need to build up some telemedicine centres for emergency treatment of stroke patients to be able to reach within three hours. There you have to draw a map, as I was inside my post. There are many other aspects of the posts that I don't have time to comment on. I particularly appreciated what Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen said about the mental aspect of the rehabilitation of stroke patients, and that the Council of State will follow up the question of stroke records quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1677	I would also like to start by saying that I think it has been very interesting to follow the debate, and I agree with all those who say that it is right that the Storting focuses on this patient group. I think for my part I would like to sum up the debate on the basis of three syllables. Firstly, we are all concerned that stroke patients should also receive equivalent, good treatment. I'm glad that there seems to be a great deal of excitement in the hall in that we now have high expectations that the Health Directorate will make national guidelines. We rightly expect the Health Directorate to cooperate closely with a strong national competence environment, so that we get up-to-date knowledge in the field, and that we look internationally to see what kind of knowledge we have there. And for the part, on which the representative's salary was in, if there's a great deal of professional disagreement, I think it's worth noting the possibility of organising a consensus conference if it seems appropriate. So we now need to focus on good national guidelines, which can form the basis for obtaining equivalent, good offers across the country. The second key I notice is the need for cooperation, interaction. This is about a primary health service that can do a lot about strokes, about getting the municipal medical officer to understand that here there is a need for pace and getting the patient sent on to the right place. It's about prevention, and it's about a good emergency reception. Then it's about an interconnected, comprehensive healthcare service, which also works to initiate rehabilitation and rehabilitation at the right level quickly. I remember what I said in my main post, that we have quite exciting results, for example. from Trondheim, Søbstad, on good rehabilitation and habilitation work in an interaction between municipal health services and specialist health services. Interaction is a clear key. The third is quality records. Knowing more about what's good offers, what's working, what's not working, measuring differences in offers, so that it can be used as a basis for adjusting, and that we can review and improve national policies in our drive for good and equivalent offers through quality registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1690	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1696	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1703	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to further improve the random fishing system in the sea fishing fleet, inter alia, by removing the cutting date also for cod quotas and increasing the rate that can be released to 30 per cent.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1747	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to instruct the Foreign Affairs Directorate to respect the local local local local government in matters relating to the establishment of asylum recipients, in order to give local authorities a veto right in practice.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1775	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 20 November 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that, where there is a written agreement on the transfer of leave to the following year, no restrictions be imposed.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1791	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1801	During the debate, the representative, Mr Kvassheim, put forward two proposals on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1833	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-25.ana.ud2412e1880	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
