ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e47	Normally I should not have had the word in this matter, but even a well-organised and competent party that the Progress Party can make a few minor mistakes in between. In connection with this matter, we have obviously done so. We have fully focused on what is essentially in this setting, namely the ban on exports, and we strongly support the amendment of Section 23. However, what we have not quite got with us, as a lack of incurrency, is that we have included the Sameting in Section 28. It dare be well known in this room that the Progress Party is not a hot follower of the Sameting, and it will be unnatural for us to add to an institution that we want to lay down, more tasks. We must therefore ask for the vote to be allowed to vote against the amendment to Paragraph 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e54	It has been registered by the President, and it will be taken into account in the vote. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e72	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to 5 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e81	I am pleased that in 2009 all children are given the right to babysitting in the municipality in which they live. The municipality shall have at least one recording per year. This means that all parents should know what is the maximum waiting time in their municipality. Today, the vast majority of municipalities are able to fulfil the rights of kindergarten. A little over 98 pst. by those who search, they have children's beds. But it's very important that the 3,916 kids who were on the waiting list at the last count, also have kindergartens, like the 249,479 who got them. We, as local and national populace, have not done our job if these kids don't get a safe and good kindergarten when parents want it. The media and the opposition are sometimes trying to measure a picture of the red-green kindergarten policy that is not entirely in line with the results we achieve. They can't remove the fact that the nursery effort is becoming a great success for this government. And we have the whole country on the team. As I said in Stortinget earlier today, kindergarten is extensive. There are many stones to put in place to give us a good kindergarten policy. This is now the case, so that municipalities can comply with this decision as early as possible, and to keep up the pressure on the goal of full child care coverage. The opposition will certainly criticise the Government for treating this matter piece by piece and division before we have achieved full child-care coverage. But it is with care for the municipalities that we feel it is important that we have this decision made as early as possible so that they can keep up the pressure. Since 2002, there have been 60,000 more kindergartens. The prices are about half of what they were that time. Despite the fact that the kids are staying longer in kindergartens, and more and more searches, we can offer almost all of the kids in the country space. It's not long since many people couldn't afford to apply for space because the price could be over NOK 4000 a month, while others left it because getting space was considered to be less likely. The kind of states that belong to the past. Today's court is another step on the way to the nursery sector we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e96	Like my good colleague Trond Lode, I am very pleased with the job the red-green government has done to ensure that Norwegian children now have kindergartens. For many years, toddlers' parents have been promised full childcare coverage, so now we are finally going over the finish line. I over 90 pst. of the country's municipalities there are today full kindergarten coverage, and in the largest cities there are now bombings to find plots to build more kindergartens. The massive expansion began with the government of Gro Harlem Brundtland in the 1980s and 1990s, and then saw a sharp setback in the introduction of cash support in 1998. The introduction of cash support resulted in places actually being closed in the first year. It was a rather severe setback. It was only in 2003 that there was once again a swing in kindergarten development after the day-care centre agreement was in place, in which all the parties that are here today were present. So by the end of 2008, we will be in a situation where 65,000 more children than in 2003 go to kindergarten. That means 89 pst. by the end of this year, all children between 1 and 5 years of age will be accommodated in kindergarten. So there has been a massive effort on the goal of full child care after the red-green government took over. The representative Thommessen called the Government’s bet on kindergarten earlier today as a ‘performance project’. I would like to say that this is an important project for all the parties that participated in the kindergarten agreement, and that we should all be very happy about, because we are now about to see that the goal is within reach. The investment we've had also reflects in the appropriations. In 2003, 7.8 billion kroner were spent on operation in kindergartens, while in the current year we will spend 21.6 billion kroner on kindergartens. So the state funding for kindergarten development has increased by 170 pst in nominal terms. At the same time as the massive expansion, the price of kindergartens has been reduced. We have introduced a maximum price of NOK 2 330. In municipal kindergartens, the price of a place has been reduced by 37 pst. In private kindergartens, the price has been reduced by almost 50 pst. There are some small children's parents marks. These price reductions have also resulted in more parents being able to afford to have their children in kindergarten, which has resulted in an even greater demand for kindergartens than we could see in 2003. The government has announced in the Soria Moria statement that it would introduce the right to kindergarten once full coverage has been reached. We now believe that time is ripe. True, not all municipalities are in port, but first of all, the law will not really take effect until 1 August 2009, and so the municipalities still have one year to solve this problem. Secondly, we believe that the law enforcement of the law will lead to the municipalities turning up the pace one more step. Thirdly, the Government introduces a law that will become more stringent gradually. This implies that the minimum requirement is set at one admission per year to begin with. In this way, we also believe that the municipalities that have the most difficulty in getting full coverage should be able to fulfil their obligations. So in the longer term, we're going to demand at least two admissions a year as a minimum. The future parents of young children should not lose the night sleep of fear of not having a kindergarten offer for their small pod. By introducing a legal right to kindergarten, we have reached another milestone in kindergarten policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e113	If you read this setting, it is obvious that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are very proud of the red-green government's proposal that all children should be given legal space in kindergarten. There's really no reason for that. The proposal for the right to babysitting is good, but everything indicates that there will be a blow in the air. We have also legalised the right to health care here in the country, but yet there are more than 220,000 Nordics in long queues. Adopting a right without content is just trying to trick people. The government's pediatrics policy is in the process of withdrawing more and more from the kindergarten agreement, which would give everyone who wanted it the right to a cheap nursery place - the agreement that was negotiated in due course by the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party. Most recently in the revised national budget, an attempt is made to give the impression that full childcare is within reach. The fact is that full child care coverage is suspended, at least until 2009 - two years after the promise from SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, that she would leave the government if it was not in place. In the revised state budget, the Government is adjusting the estimate for new kindergartens in 2008, from 7 700 to 18 000. Such an upgrading is a direct distance of reality. Last year, 4 700 fewer places were built than estimated, and then it's just nonsense to pretend that the rate of expansion will increase dramatically this year. In the revised budget, the subsidy is increased to new posts up to NOK 20000. The Progress Party believes that the Government would be wise to assume that there are no random increases in figures or money support that create new places, but predictable and equivalent framework conditions that provide for development. Without predictability, there will be few new places, because private developers will feel a lot of uncertainty by investing in the market - and there are private developers and drivers who are the engine throughout the kindergarten development. Uncertainty is increasing when the Government breaks the kindergarten agreement and proposes that municipalities be able to refuse to finance new private kindergartens after 2011. This opens up dramatic discrimination between private and public kindergartens. The tapes become the parents and the children. The Progress Party believes it makes no sense when the Government on the one hand wants to legislate on the right to children's playground, but on the other hand the municipalities allow them to decide whether to grant money to new places. Everything suggests that the most important thing for today’s government is to prevent private offerings — that it is much more important than all to have kindergartens in Norway. Finally, I have to comment on the two previous speakers. Mr. Lode said that the government's kindergarten policy -- if I noted correctly -- is going to be a great success. The same thing has been said for three years. It'll take time. The goal is moved out in time, and everything indicates that we're as far away from the goal as we've been. Otherwise, I notice that the Center Party and the Workers' Party are beating their chests and saying that it was they who invented this that we should have cheaper and more kindergartens, and that all children should have kindergartens. It is nice that you would like to be a father in such matters, but the case is that it was the Advance Party and SV who came - first to the Workers' Party, so, later, the Center Party came leaning, halfway under compulsion, and then came the Christian People's Party and the Right. If you read the history book, and at least the representatives of Gjul and Lode should do so, the right paths are for cheap and more kindergartens in Norway The Progress Party and SV. The sad thing is that the Swedish government has not completely managed to live up to the good work done by them. There's going to be something pathetic about the kindergarten policy that the government is running. Then I will address the proposal that we have with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e143	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e146	In all municipalities, everything that straps and clothes can hold is worked to build kindergartens. It's a fantastic effort across the country, and it's a cross-political uprising about the desire for full babysitting. There can be no doubt about it. When case rapporteur Lode, accompanied by the representative Gjul, says that the municipalities need an extra puff to keep the pressure up, and that you want to introduce this guarantee at an early stage, almost in order to increase the enthusiasm, I have to say that I think there is a lot of case handler in the municipalities that does not recognise the need for further encouragement. Here you really do, and maybe far from it, an extension based on what you want from content in terms of quality and the real opportunities you have to provide staff, etc. A guaranteed right to kindergarten, where the starting point was that full child-care coverage was provided, is actually seen as symbolism. As we see it, it won't be built a single new nursery because you give a guarantee. Nor will a new preschool teacher be trained for that reason. Therefore, such a guarantee is both inconsistency and – on the other hand – derailment in relation to the current challenges, namely to ensure that you have staff and a starting point for making good kindergartens. This also recognised the government parties when we dealt with St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 in the previous session. In the setting of the message, it appeared that the government parties did not think it appropriate to establish such a right before having full child-care coverage. It is, as you can see, with little wonder we see of the proposition that we intend to implement this guarantee already from the autumn of 2009, when it will probably not be possible to get full babysitting within that time. I might have the government parties a little suspected of creating a situation around the largest municipalities, which have the biggest problems with this expansion. These municipalities are - not entirely random - right-headed or run by the bourgeois parties. Oslo is a noble goal for the Government to address lack of enthusiasm for development. It might be all right in the context of an election campaign situation to be able to hang on to some right-hand or civilised municipalities to draw attention to that particular theme. I don't leave this much longer now. But I think it would be nice if the Council of State in its contribution could cancel the little insinuation that I leave in the air with regard to these cities, and confirm that he agrees that the expansion of kindergartens in the largest cities actually follows a progression within the framework of what is possible. We believe that such a guarantee should be introduced, this guarantee should have a stronger and clearer content and apply to the children at an earlier time. We therefore agree with the proposal on which the four bourgeois parties stand together and which has already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e163	Dear fellows from the Advance Party! We fully agree that it was Siv Jensen and Øystein Djupedal who spoke together and promoted a Document No. Eight proposals from - for the first time in history - SV and the Progress Party. But I think that the black paint that came after the post was a little bit slow. So I'm going to give a completely different content to the bet that's now being made. Yesterday was a happy day. Then Odelstinget, by a large majority, adopted a common marriage law. It was a historic and important victory. Today, we are going to adopt the right to children's playground, which is a historically important milestone in Norwegian kindergarten policy. This right is important because it provides families with a safe framework for child care and training. It is important for children, and it is important for equality, because both parents are given the opportunity to provide care and to be active. This has been a great week on Stortinget for us. SV has fought for full child-care coverage for well over 30 years. So today is 96 pst. of the children in a kindergarten before school starts. This is a revolution, both in view of kindergartens and in the possibility of having a kindergarten. I believe that this revolution would not have been possible without the will of this government to implement the pediatric reconciliation that this big business has adopted. Kindergarten is good for children. Both national and international research shows that a good educational offer before school age has a positive impact on the learning and development of all children, regardless of family background. Kindergarten bet has a long history. It was not until 1975 that the first kindergarten law came. The SV’s proposal to supplement the planning obligation of municipalities with a development obligation did not, then, receive a majority. In 1988, SV proposed for the first time the right to a nursery place and that it should be legalised. Before the 2001 elections, kindergarten was one of the SV’s most important election campaigns. In 2002, Øystein Djupedal and Siv Jensen spoke together, and this historic proposal was promoted, which led to a kindergarten settlement in the Stortinget. In fact, I think that both the Progress Party and the SV should be proud of, because this would not have come so far if that proposal had not been promoted - I am absolutely sure. This is something this big business has said very many times and wanted very many times, but that's the proposal and the fact that you got this into the government and got a majority, which now made you work intensely to get this in place. I have been so lucky to have worked with the kindergarten since this proposal was promoted. It also has the representative of the Progress Party, Karin S. Woldseth. The right to kindergarten was one of the proposals, and after the massive expansion we now have, the Minister of Knowledge suggested that the right to kindergarten for all should be legalised. 20 years after SV proposed the law for the first time, there will now be a majority on the Stortinget for this. The proposal states: ‘The Community is obliged to provide a place in a kindergarten to children under the age of compulsory training resident in the municipality. ‘... What's joyous is that now almost everyone in this country takes it for granted that one should get a kindergarten when one needs it. But it hasn't come of itself. The struggle for pediatric development has been ideological, and it has sometimes been hard. It's also been a women's fight. Lawmaking of justice and a large-scale extension is a major and important victory. The offensive policy to ensure the quality and best possible childcare facilities for all those who want it is met by a large majority of Norwegian parents who want their children to go to kindergarten. A statutory right to kindergarten will also mean that those municipalities now that do not have full kindergarten coverage have to make a huge effort to make room for all children in kindergartens who want it. This is a historic victory. I guess we can't measure the two victories -- the one from yesterday and today -- up against each other, but they're very important in terms of equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e194	The Christian People's Party is basically positive about introducing a statutory right to kindergarten, as it gives parents who want kindergarten, a real opportunity to choose it. But we assume that the government's promise of full child-care coverage will be fulfilled before the right to children's playground enters into force. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the quality and content of the nursery services and will stress that a statutory right to kindergarten is to be followed by an offensive commitment to both recruitment of preschool teachers and staff empowerment. Today, we already lack more than 4,000 pre-school teachers, and the number is increasing as new kindergartens develop. The Christian People's Party is concerned that children who go to private kindergartens will receive an offer as good as those who go to municipal kindergartens. That is why we must have a government-determined funding system that ensures real economic equality between public and private kindergartens. This is the only way that a right to a nursery place can also imply an equivalent childcare facility, regardless of whether the child is in a private or municipal nursery. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important that municipalities provide for a diversity of childcare facilities, both in terms of ownership, educational and valuable profile and opening hours. It is not that all parents want the same type of kindergarten for their children. Municipalities must respect the wishes of their parents and not let their own political and ideological stand get in the way of opening up the diversity of kindergartens. The Christian People's Party believes that all municipalities must have an income graded parental payment in the kindergarten, so that all parents who want it can afford a nursery place. Today, only every four municipalities have graduated income from parental payment in kindergarten. This means that a statutory right to kindergarten does not become real for families with poor finances. What does that help with a right when you can't afford it? That's why I think that's a shame, because many children have great benefits and enjoy a kindergarten offer, and the Christian People's Party believes it should be a real opportunity for families to choose a nursery offer if they want it. The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities must make a continuous admission throughout the year, and that parents should be safe places if the child is one year old and they have applied no later than four months before they need the place. Such a predictable scheme will ensure that the child is given kindergarten when both parents are going back to work. Therefore, we promote proposals where we ask the Government to ensure that all municipalities make continuous admissions throughout the year, and that parents can be secure if the child has reached the age of one year and they have applied no later than four months before they need this place. It's necessary because the government's arrangement means that many kids don't have a real nursery until they're almost two years old. If someone is so unhappy that they have a child in September - I am born in September, and very many children are born long before August - they will not be able to go back to work at worst until the child is almost two years old, even if they want to. Municipalities must give priority to those who have a right. It's going to affect those who don't have a right, i.e., 1-year-olds. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure real freedom of choice for parents, whether they want kindergarten or cash support for their one- and two-year-olds. That is why our proposal for a different recording model is important, but unfortunately I note that the proposal does not have a majority. Now I hope that the Council of State will take it along anyway, it's not too late to turn around. I want to add: This with 1- or 2-year-olds is actually a step backwards. 20 years ago I had a one-year-old son who started in kindergarten on the day he was one year old. It might be history when this right is introduced this way. It almost seems as if the government is busy achieving full child care coverage for the political accounts, and not for the parents out there who have one-year-olds and want to go back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e213	What we've witnessed in the last ten years is a silent revolution, a babysitting revolution. That year I was born, in 1971, it was under 3 pst. of the children of Norway who went to kindergarten. This year, in 2008, 96 pst. of the five- and six-year-olds who are to begin schooling in the autumn, have been offered a nursery before they begin schooling. It's a silent revolution. It has not come about by itself, on the contrary, through systematic and hard work over many years. Not least, we in SV have our extreme involvement in it. At SV's party office in Oslo, where I used to work when I was a party secretary, it hung a election poster. They learned to fight if he's from 1977 or 1979. The poster says in upper case: babysitting space for everyone. I think that one of my colleagues who passed by and saw him, at one point, commenting laconically that they were extreme, these SVs in the 1970s, and that it might have stood: kindergarten for all children. But now we're at least there -- we don't have kindergarten space for everyone, but we have kindergarten space for almost all children. That's right, as was said here: 98.4 pst. by all parents who wanted it for their children, got room last year. So for the last five years, we've been dramatically reducing the price of babysitting. And of course, it's because so many people want that place and actually have the opportunity to use it. Now we're going to do the last step in a long stage when it's for the kindergartens, by introducing a legal right. That proposal gives the right to sit in the nursery for children who have reached one year of age before the end of August and shall be fulfilled from August of that year a place applied for. This right applies to a childcare facility which is recognised by the law. The municipality shall have at least one admission per year and set the deadline for the application for admission. It's a minimum obligation. I want to make that clear here: they are, by the way, the vast majority of children in Norway already get kindergarten space today long before that minimum requirement is met. Many have already been given space for the longest, even more will have it in the future. So this is a minimum right that we're introducing. It's a big step forward. However, it is of course more important in the future to discuss whether to continue with different problem settings around it. The status at the end of 2007 is that most municipalities are either in target or very close to the goal of full childcare coverage. In their own reporting, they refer to ambitions to build many new kindergartens in 2008 as well, a total of 18 000. The right of access will only apply from the date of admission in August 2009. We have reason to believe that local authorities will have adequate childcare coverage at the time, even if you need to ask a few questions. because they do it themselves. I was challenged to say two words about confirming some facts about kindergartens and different municipalities in Norway. Yes, it's true that Oslo and Bergen, but also Sandnes, Ålesund and Bærum, were the municipalities where most children did not have room last year. It is also right, as the representative Thommes says, that right over time has governed all the municipalities. It is also true that the largest cities have many common challenges. But what the representative did not address was that the largest cities in Norway have solved the challenges differently and with different results. Some of the largest cities in Norway have full child-care coverage after systematic and hard work. Others have not done their job well enough and do not have full childcare today. There are especially five big cities that are governed by the Right. Now I want to say that I see that a lot of people are on everything they can. Sandnes is making a huge effort and probably coming to the goal this year. In the other cities it has also been a huge focus on it. That's why I have a good hope that the skill we're currently in can lead us to the goal. In the government, we have decided that the maximum price of a children's playground should remain still for NOK 2 330 until 2012 until we have reached the maximum price level of SEK 1 750 in 2005. It really means lower prices every year. For years to come, we need not least to address the major quality challenges we face in kindergarten. We have too much shortage of preschool teachers. We have a good starting point for recruiting more because the search is good and many more are added each year. It's important. But of course, we also have many other challenges when it comes to pediatric competences. I want to stop saying to the opposition: Welcome after! To young children’s parents: Congratulations on the day today!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e237	In its observations, the Council of State mentioned the fact that the Government has increased the estimate for new kindergartens in 2008 to 18 000, starting from a relatively high 7 700 increase. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see that there is reason to ask questions about such a rather significant increase, when last year it was built 4 700 fewer places than the Government had estimated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e244	It is always necessary to estimate the number of new kindergartens that will be built in a year. We base our estimate on the best basis available, that is, a TNS Gallup study commissioned by the Ministry of Knowledge among the municipalities, a study that we have summed up, and that shows the number. However, the number of kindergartens actually built is important for parents and children in Norway. We'll only know that in retrospect. But I can say that we have provided the best basis we have, and then we later have to sum up how many are actually built. I see that there is a great willingness to continue with the expansion around. We know that there are many municipalities that are not quite in target, but there are also municipalities that experience increased demand due to low prices and great interest in going to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e251	In the municipality of Sandne there is a lot of growth, and it can't be explained that it's one or the other party that's been running. Sandnes is actually the most growing municipality in the country, with 2 pst. and 1000 inhabitants per year. So it's the municipality that has the biggest challenges to be able to get to full child-care coverage. Now they've almost done it, but the important thing now is to maintain full babysitting. If they're going to make it, they're going to have to assume that a large part -- almost half -- of these kindergartens are private. If the private will not continue to operate and build - every year new kindergartens are needed - you will not achieve full childcare coverage. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Will the Council of State work for a proper, predictable, state funding for private kindergartens, so that their contributions can ensure that you maintain full child care coverage - in Sandnes and in the country, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e263	Let me first say that I see that a very good job has been done in Sandnes, which has come in full with child care coverage. It's true that the big cities have special challenges. But I want to keep in mind that this has been solved quite differently in the big cities. But let it be-- now it's done a good job. I also have the impression that Sandnes will be in target in a short time. Then a proposal has been submitted to the Stortinget for a new funding scheme and transfer to the municipal council for 2011, with a scheme for financing non-municipal or private kindergartens. First of all, I would like to say that the pediatric agreement previously mentioned here gave a strong boost to the financing of private kindergartens, with a municipal obligation to finance, and to increase support. The support system we have today is regulated by the previous government, where the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party. Now we're going to transfer it to the municipalities, and then we're going to secure the funding of them. They still have an obligation to finance the private kindergartens, and I am sure that we will ensure stable and prudent funding of the nursery. We need both the public and the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e270	Back to the question I asked, and the number that has arisen, 18,000. As far as I understand the Council of State, his department has carried out thorough investigations on the basis of the figure. Is it, then, that the Council of State promises us that we see the reality of these 18 000? Or is this just a promise, in the same way that his party leader has previously given, that she would go out of the government if she could not deliver on the promises she had made when it came to kindergartens by 2007? It would be interesting if we could get here an SV State Council that kept a promise, and that delivered on what he had actually promised. It's a relatively short horizon we're talking about here - until New Year's. Can the Council of State promise us 18 000 new posts, as he has said in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e277	This is an estimate. I say it once more - an estimate of how many kindergartens we think will be built this year. Similar estimates are made each year. It's done in a lot of different fields in society. In order to better plan a development estimate. But then there is also the fact that there is considerable uncertainty about such an estimate. It can be fewer, more -- it can even be significantly fewer, for everything we know. But one has to use the best available material when making such an estimate. What's important then is how many children's playgrounds are finally built. As in previous years, it could vary in different directions from that estimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e282	I mentioned in my post the whole concern of the opposition for the one-year-olds who will be standing without justice - at least one-year-olds born after September. I perceived the posts of the Council of State so that it was just a minimum. Will reality be such that there will be many one-year-olds who can make room? That's how I perceived the Council of States. But what is the problem of going on our proposal? What is the problem of saying that we're going to give a real right for everyone from the age of one year? Once upon a time, the vast majority of mothers and fathers go back to work about when the child is one year old. We want them to have the freedom to do that, and know that they can plan it because it's a continuous admission into kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e291	What is a little surprising about the criticisms of the opposition and the Christian People's Party is that at the same time they say that the proposal is both too ambitious and too little ambitious - at the same time, in the same debate. That's what I thought was strange. I think you have to decide whether or not it's too ambitious to introduce a right when there are some municipalities that may not get to the goal, or too little ambitious and that one has to tighten up the court. My opinion is that this is a minimum right. He's quite ambitious, and we have to fight really hard to get to the point when it comes to full babysitting, so that the goal can be fulfilled. It's an absolute minimum, where some people can come into the situation that they can say, this must be done. But for most people, they're already independent of that court, because they have full child care coverage in their municipalities, where they get kindergarten even before the child reaches the age of one year, or shortly after. That is the reason why the proposal has been presented as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e298	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e305	The view of kindergartens has changed over time. In 1947, the Coordination Group concluded that: ‘Barnehagen should generally remain open 4 hours per day. day(s) Longer periods in kindergarten than 4 hours can easily be more harmful than for the benefit of the child. ‘... In 1961 the Lyseth Committee concluded that: ‘Although there is a broad consensus today that it is best for the child to be home and taken care of by the mother for the first 2-3 years of his life, there will always be a number of children in big cities and industrial centers for whom the best solution is the nursery while mother is out serving for the family’s stay. ‘... 35 years ago, we went on trains for the right to babysitting for all children. Then the women's fight was on the hottest. Only today - 35 years after - is there a general attitude among people that it is very good to go to kindergarten. We know that going to kindergarten is good to get the necessary skills and knowledge later in life. Kindergartens are good for the social development of children, and they are important for equality. Therefore, children's playgrounds for all children are sensible economic policies. Kinderhage has always been a battle cause for SV. Already in 1988 - 20 years ago - SV proposed for the first time that the right to a kindergarten should be legalised. Today, when we adopt a legal right to kindergarten, this shows the broad societal significance of kindergarten in our society. It is a milestone in the history of kindergarten policy when we today decide that this statutory law will be enforced from 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e326	I could not avoid taking the floor again after hearing Mr Knudsen's statement. I've never been away from history forgery in the field of kindergarten expansion in this country. It sounds to Ulf Erik Knudsen as if the kindergarten development started in 2003 and that there was not a single nursery place in Norway before that time. It's actually wrong. Before that time, in fact, there were 190 000 children who already went to kindergarten, and it was not at all the merits of the Progress Party that those children already had a kindergarten. The large-scale kindergarten development in Norway started with the Gro Harlem Brundtland Women's Administration in 1986. From then on, we had a large-scale kindergarten development until the Bondevik I government took over in 1997. Then the Bondevik I government decided to bet on cash support, and we got a sudden stop in kindergarten development that has been lacking a parity, and it actually resulted in a reduction in the number of kindergarten seats in Norway for a few years. Those who deserve it must have honor and honor for the restoration of kindergarten. But it is also true that the Progress Party was not a proponent of kindergartens in the 1980s and 1990s. On the contrary, I remember debates where representatives of the Progress Party actually thought that one of the parents -- reading mother -- should be at home and take care of the children instead of putting them in a storage room, as kindergartens were considered. It was therefore a great positive surprise when the Progress Party joined the kindergarten agreement, and honour the Advance Party for turning around in this matter. It's very positive, because it has contributed to a unanimous increase in recent years that has been behind the efforts we now have in kindergarten. But I also have to say that I am a little surprised at the opposition parties. As the Council of State said, it's a bit of a grumbling. First, they criticize the government for being too ambitious in relation to the law of the court, and then criticise it for being too ambitious. The representative Thommessen said this wasn't going to have a function, because a statutory right doesn't matter. It is a legal obligation. In addition, a statutory right to kindergarten is quite targeted -- either you have room, or you don't have space -- so to say that this is a blow in the air, it's going to be completely wrong. You have to decide if you're in favour of a legal right, or if you're against a legal right. We are in favour of a statutory right, and we believe that it will help us achieve full child-care coverage, so that all the parents of the country who need room for their children get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e342	I am very surprised that the opposition instead of being happy that we have come as far as we have come, finds it right to criticise the fact that there is still a small job, as the government says we should do. So, especially to the Right-Representatives: Instead of shooting at the Council of State, you should go home to a Right-Depressed Municipality, Oslo, for example, and see why they are unable to achieve full child-care coverage. I can give you a good example. I'm in Oslo City Council and I know the city well. In connection with the station development of 800 homes, the City Council presented only four kindergartens in its proposal. SV was able to enter ten new departments in cooperation with the developer from the opposition. It is fully possible to build more kindergartens. It can't be right, and then they have to go home and tell the Right People to do their job. I want to congratulate all parents in Norway who want to get their children into kindergarten. This is a day of joy. The government and SV have had three objectives: one is to get full child care coverage, the other is to lower prices, make it available, and the third is quality. We are about to deliver on all three levels. $2,300 you pay today. And in the Grorud Valley, where 130 000 people live -- much more than in very many municipalities in the country -- 4 and 5 year-olds pay $1,300, top. So we've made it very accessible to a lot of kids. So the government also works with the quality. The kindergarten and kindergarten prices are among the best reforms of our time - and one of the best feminist reforms. When a mother has the opportunity to send her child to the nursery, she can realize herself. She can take education, she can strengthen her network, and she can go to work and become financially independent. Children with a minority background are given the opportunity to go to kindergarten and learn the language before they begin school, so that they do not spend time learning the language, nor can they spend time on science and math. Not least, this is today's best reform for women with a minority background. They are given the opportunity to send their children to kindergarten, to learn the language, to strengthen their network, and to get the opportunity to get work and financial autonomy. I think we deliver, and we deliver well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e361	The representative Gjul hacks loose with a relatively high degree of lack of respect for the truth, among other things. when she performs to say something such as that the Progress Party ‘became with’ in the kindergarten agreement and the kindergarten agreement, etc. It's kind of like saying the pilot's on the plane. We put everything in the driver's seat there, as it was also confirmed by the partner at the time: SV. Here you should have some respect for the story, and not try to claim credit for something you don't have the credit for. Then the representative also hacked Gjul into this with a small turn into the nursery, and that there were many who chose cash support. I think it's actually great that some women and men want to be home with their children a little longer than just the measured time. I therefore think the cash support is great things that should be maintained and preferably strengthened. This with freedom of choice we do not know is very strong in the sitting government, but it is something that is very close to the heart of the Advance Party. Otherwise, I also think that the Workers' Party and SV should go quietly in the doors when it comes to the criticism of, among other things. Oslo like a town that's struggling with kindergarten expansion. If you go a little further down than to the largest municipalities, you will find some large municipalities where the Workers' Party and SV have been running for a long time, and where you have been on the minus side in terms of kindergarten development. Among other things, I can mention from my own home country that the Labour Party lost the majority after 100 years in Lower Eiker, and there has now been a Right and Advance Party plurality to clean up after them. The kindergarten queues there have been long, and that has been one of the reasons why the majority has been lost. In fact, we have a situation where there is still a great deal of discrimination between private and public kindergartens. The private kindergartens are plagued with late payments from the municipalities, mispayments, there is a breach of the maximum price promise, it has been revealed several times that the municipalities have exchanged money to go to the kindergartens - it has been confirmed by both the County Council and the previous Council of State, it has been built up 4 700 fewer kindergartens last year than it had been calculated, and the largest player in the industry, PBL, feels failing in relation to what the Government has promised them. Everything suggests that there are some major and significant problems in Barnehage-Norway that are not corrected by the fact that we are making a paper determination here today that says that everyone should have the right to babysitting. We only deal with this with a predictable non-discrimination policy between private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e372	This will, of course, be a comment to the Council of State's visit to, among other things. Oslo and Chaudhry's greeting home. It may be appropriate to recall that from 2001 to 2007, Oslo has had an increase in the number of children aged 1 to 5 years by 5,477 - an increase of 14 pst. There is a large movement of high birth rate families, and fresh figures show that the Oslo area accounts for half of the population growth throughout Norway. The number of children under the age of 6 is per year. 1 January 2007 c. 10 pst. higher than in 2004. Oslo has very special challenges in relation to the cost of developing kindergartens. The government pays the same grants for the establishment of kindergarten, regardless of where in the country it is, and the Municipality of Oslo has to contribute significant amounts to meet its challenges. Despite this, Oslo has built almost 2,500 places in 2007. Recent living conditions surveys show that the population of Oslo thrives well with the policies pursued. After all, it is all about a collective approach to welfare services. There is no reason not to keep the pressure up any further. But I'd say, from SV's side, you might have to be a little bit careful to think that you have the big total solution. After all, it is not more than a year since the voters in Oslo today got their vote of confidence renewed by the voters. I might now choose to listen to those who are closest and have their shoes on. We complained about this case because it was a legal obligation. Of course it's not like that, we understand that it's a legal obligation. Our point now is that we believe that it is a derailment to run this guarantee before you have full coverage, and before you can get a quality in the kindergartens that are worthy of the children. We know that the main challenge is not whether it's a guarantee or not. The main challenge here is to get on with the development. And more importantly, it's in providing qualified staff and creating kindergartens that are of a quality that make them have a lasting value.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e390	Both from the Council of State and from members of the government parties, it has been mentioned from the pulpit here that the opposition criticises that the Government is proposing guaranteed place in the kindergarten. We don't criticize it. It was actually part of a settlement that we made. What we are criticising is that we are not taking things in the right order, that we are making sure that there is full child-care coverage, as it stands in the main agreement, before we introduce the baby-sitting guarantee. I desperately want to ask the Council of State what consequences it has for those children - the 6,000, 8,000 or 10,000 children - who don't get a kindergarten when they're 1 year old. Is it, then, that you have to compensate for paying the equivalent of a nursery to your parents, so that they have the opportunity to stay at home? Otherwise there will be no real choice for the parents of these children. What may scare me the most, is that I hear an underlying tone from some of the representatives from SV in terms of the right to kindergarten. When does the right to kindergarten become a duty? I'm waiting for a proposal from the SV that there should be an obligation to go to kindergarten, probably not too many years. The council also said that the big cities have not done their job. Now I think Olemic Thommessen gave a very clear and straightforward explanation of what it's like in Oslo. In Bergen there is no shortage of willing builders at all, but there is a lack of land. I'm sure the Council of State is familiar with this. You have strangled and worn to find places. You've taken school gardens. They've taken areas that should have been built into hospitals. So you've done everything you can, and then I think it's terribly bad done by a councillor to say that the big cities haven't done their job. In Bergen it was actually such that there was a rainbow alliance long before the kindergarten agreement, where the city council in Bergen formed a large and broad cooperation, from SV and Red on one side to the Progress Party on the other, and where the municipality went in and gave them that support to kindergartens to stimulate development. So I think it's terribly bad to say something like that and hang out big cities - because they're not SV-steered. The Council of State should also know that there is a completely different population base in the big cities, and thus it is much more difficult to achieve full child-care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e405	It was the representative of Chaudhry who made me speak. You have to know very badly about urban development in this capital if you haven't realized that this is where kindergartens are built so it costs after, even in green areas, which left doesn't like, and with a significant creativity. But it happens at the same time in a total economic situation, where the costs are driven in the weather, where it is difficult to obtain labour, even if you do your utmost to open the doors to this workforce. Then, until the light switch was switched on at the government parties recently, they had a maximum price. Most people have to understand that when the maximum price goes down, demand increases. And it happens in a city where there were initially graduated rates, so that in this city you were sure to secure kindergarten for everyone who needed it. Now the government has realized that if you operate with a moving target, the maximum price, it becomes a bit tough to get full child-care coverage. So the government should have praise for having decided that now they're going to leave it. In fact, I think that increases the chance of getting what everyone here wants, that's full babysitting. I don't think there should be a description in the main hall that there is no strong political will to deliver. I can mostly deal with how budgets are negotiated and made available in Oslo, also on the school side. I know what's going on, I know what's going on, and it's a rough sign to make it so that here an SV representative locally should have made a heroic effort. It's almost the same thing as the flua that sits on a very truckload and there's dust afterwards, and then the flua says: Look at all the dust I got. With respect to reporting, there is a broad political will in this capital to get solutions. The representative Chaudhry should be happy about that, instead of making it some sort of little fine object in the staging room. I was going to stay calm, but that's to signify the situation. The Council of State needs to know that people are serious. That the Council of State is impatient -- I choose to interpret him this way -- is commendable, but he should not sit with the impression that one does not mean serious. There's a lot of people who've been busy with that seriousness to make sure of it. So there's been some other disagreements about the kindergarten bet that shouldn't be drawn out in this context -- it's the will to get it done. Then you shouldn't use the big hall as if you were sitting there holding a city government debate. You have to take it to Oslo City Council. In the national parliament of the country, there is no sign of the cross-political will to do anything in the capital of the country. So it's then that there's a significant fertility, as it turned out from a previous post. If anyone regrets the fertility, please for me; but for my part it is good that it is fertility. It's also good that there's someone moving to. But that makes you have great challenges, and despite that, the ambitions are great. It is not always I should brag by a colleague, but Mr. Odegaard from the Right has a zeal in this area that is quite significant. As I said earlier, it's a little bit cheerful: it's going to rain in the green areas of the capital to get good babysitting places. So there's pressure in this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e416	I have, as one of those who was involved in the negotiations on the nursery arrangement, the need to correct some of the story here. It's sad that a national assembly has such a short-term memory that you could hear from some of the previous speakers. It was perhaps the representative in particular Chaudhry who started my involvement in the matter, when he said -- and I'm not going to interfere in the Oslo debate, it gets others to take care of -- that the SV wanted, was space and so price. Then the matter was completely turned on my head. I am fully aware that those who are to be honored will receive the honor. And it is the Advance Party and the SV who are to have the credit for the assisted conception, but the birth occurred under the government of Bondevik II. The reason we did not accept the proposal with open arms was that we in the government of Bondevik said we need to have room before the price. That's what the parents wanted, that's what we contributed to the kindergarten arrangement, and that's when we started stimulating -- that didn't come from anyone here in Stortinget -- that we got speed on the kindergarten building. If we're going to write history as a national parliament, we're going to have to write it together. I think that is the common promise we all made, with the contribution of the Bondevik government in several places, with the contribution of the Progress Party and the SV in price, which has made us there today. And the municipalities have really folded up their sleeves to do what we arranged for, and we've built an incredible number of places. I wish that today's government, instead of now promoting a right to kindergarten, had made it so that we had got room for everyone, had received equal treatment for private and public kindergartens, before one went to that step. Plus, I think the inclusion of kindergartens in the municipal sector now will be a new blackout, if you haven't been fully funded by the private kindergartens. Then that bill will remain with the municipalities. And I know, and I get that feedback from our people in the municipalities, that that blackmail game they've been away from the state before, and they don't want it again. So I ask the government to think a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e425	I am a little surprised at the posts of the representative Dørum. You in the Left would be pleased with the job the party is doing in Oslo City Board. All the kindergartens that have been established, except for the City Council's own proposals, have been established because the opposition and the Left - if the Left sees itself as part of the opposition - have agreed on that. So Left has done a good job in Oslo City Council and improved the job that the City Council has done. My criticism is in relation to the City Council. They have not been able to deliver what they should have delivered. So the Right Party and the Advance Party are more concerned about explaining why you haven't been able to have more kindergartens. We're more concerned with setting goals and achieving them. Yes, it's possible that we have too much ambition, but I've learned that you should have ambitions in big things. Well, you can't fulfill those ambitions, but that's exactly what the definition of ambition is. There should be great ambitions, try to meet them and, in particular, take all possible measures to achieve them. It's better to have goals and not reach them, than not to have ambitions at all--and also explain. I don't want to make a city government post, but I know a lot about Oslo. I'm proud to be Oslo's representative and I know Oslo well. And I can make a list from the previous urban governance period of between 80 and - very carefully - 120 departments that the opposition introduced during the previous urban governance period, and that the city council could have helped realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e434	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e450	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be distributed as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President would suggest that there be three replies from the main speakers from each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e459	The CRL subject was introduced in stages in primary school as a compulsory subject from early 1997 to 1998. The aim of the subject was to obtain a common subject where the students participate as far as possible in a common teaching. This is and has helped to make a significant contribution to the common knowledge, culture and value base on which society is based, with elements from different cultures, religions and life views. The trade has since it came under continuous revision. On the basis of two independent evaluations of the CRL subject, a comprehensive review of the curriculum and the exemption system was carried out in 2001. The name of the subject was also changed. Following the opinion of the UN Committee on Human Rights in 2005, necessary changes were made to the legal provisions for the subject. The reference to the purpose paragraph was deleted from the Training Act § 2-4 of the rules on exemption and the curriculum, in order to meet the opinion of this committee. The background to the changes the Government has now proposed is the 2007 European Court of Human Rights judgment, the EMD. The EMD found that the CRL subject, well to note as it was after the 1997 scheme, does not take sufficient account of parents’ beliefs. Prior to the submission of the proposal, negotiations were held between the government parties and the opposition on the subject. Unfortunately, these did not come forward, and the Committee does not have the power to concentrate on a common position in this matter. The agreement that could be reached in the negotiations on the State Church and its discussions on value paragraphs has not been possible in the negotiations on the KRL subject. I think I speak for all parties when I say that we think it's a shame. The trade unions, the trade unions, the KRL teachers and the students had earned peace around the subject and broad consensus. Unfortunately, we have to find out that it will not be. In the setting there is agreement about the changes in § 2-3a, which goes on exemption. This concerns the requirement to provide parents with good information on the content of training. In addition, the Committee has included a supplement: ‘The school shall show respect for its students and parents for its religious and philosophical over-interpretations and ensure the right to equivalent training. ‘... Let me make it clear right away that this last one does not involve a survey of the religious beliefs of parents, but rather to provide the positive basis for the general rule of exemption, which applies to all compulsory education. As far as the description is concerned, the Committee is united. It is in what changes are necessary from the judgment that the Committee differs. I expect that the majority will explain its own views. It is a fact that today the Committee is divided into two, in opposition to the Government's proposals. The government is promoting its proposal. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have another alternative. The left has also done a decent job in formulating an alternative to the government as well. emphasizes quantity. In total, the entire opposition is opposed to the Government's proposals. It is very important to have a profession that does not conflict with human rights. All parties respect the objections of the Human Rights Court in their proposals, but the Government goes much further than the judgment of the EMD provides a factual basis. The EMD has assessed the subject over the run-in period 1997 to 2001, regardless of the major changes that have been made with broad political support since then. This judgment has not taken into account. Therefore, there is no need to make similar changes in the CRL subject as proposed by the Ministry and the Government. Instead of working to get the widest possible deal about a subject that could stay on over time, the government today uses its scarce majority to drum through a RLE subject to replace today's CRL subject. If the government had done this on the basis of the judgment of the Human Rights Court, I could have understood that. The strange and tragic thing is that the disagreement between us goes especially on two points that are not mentioned in the judgment: the quantitative place of Christianity in the subject and the name of the subject. "No hour in the krl subject," said the headline in a reading by State Secretary Lisbet Rugtvedt in Our Country this spring. Here the department wrote: ‘With the strong position that Christianity has in Norway, it is natural that it has a greater place in the profession than in the other religions. This has been accepted by Norway in the European Court of Human Rights, and therefore we do not propose a major change to this side of the CRL. ‘... And on the other hand, "This will take as much time as previously spent on Christianity. ‘... Unfortunately, the State Secretary could not write the same post today. With the new RLE subject now adopted, the Christian part will lose 130 hours. The reason is that the point that the teaching of Christianity is to be 55 pst. is to be removed. We find no reason for this in the judgment. On the contrary, the Court, like Secretary of State Rugtvedt, states that in view of the place that Christianity has in the national history and tradition of the state in question - that is, in our case Norway - this must be regarded as falling within the discretionary margin of the state concerned when it plans and determines the syllabus for the subject. Nor is the name of the subject problematic in the judgment. We believe that today's name describes the subject in a good way, and sees no need to change this. We also fully agree with the government parties who state in the setting that "the actual content and framework of the subject is of greater importance than the name of the subject". But why does the government change the subject's name then, if it still has no meaning for the subject? What is so provocative about the word "Christianity" for this government that it has to be removed? For us, the name is about a whole. If the subject is to have the quantitative majority of the teaching material, it is completely unnatural if this is not to be reflected in the name. I'm afraid that the subject we now get will be highly theorized. This is clearly reflected in the proposals for a curriculum which have already been consulted, by, for example: The church room shall no longer be explored, but it shall be described. Moreover, there is a greater emphasis on the historical importance of religion in the curriculum than on the importance it has for individuals and for our society today. But religion is much more than history; it's living now too many. To quote Bishop Skjövesland: there is a difference between a herbarium and a flower meadow. I agree. I think it's historyless to weaken the place of Christianity in the subject. Because that's what the government is doing today. Good knowledge of our Christian and humanistic heritage is important - not in the form of preaching, but through engaging knowledge dissemination. The Christian People's Party is going to go to elections in 2009 to rebuild an inclusive subject with clear value anchoring in our Christian heritage. We want a new CRL that's in line with human rights, but that's not the SV plugin. I have good faith that today's RLE subject, which is adopted by hardly a majority, will become a temporary subject in school. We would have wanted peace around the subject. Instead, the school must now deal with a new and temporary subject. If we are to succeed in integrating into Norway, it is important to increase knowledge of the world's religions. Only through knowledge and understanding of religious feelings can we prevent conflicts. That's why the CRL profession is as important as a common subject in school. The KRL subject has so far been a project on which Stortinget has agreed and cooperated. There has been a subject that has been formed through dialogue, to create a common subject that can provide knowledge, and a common cultural reference base, and to contribute to respect between different aspects of life. Today, the SV is in charge, and the Workers' Party and the Center Party are in power. It is with a little sadness that I have to say that we are delivering an alternative bill. I'm addressing proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Otherwise, the setting shows what we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e508	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e513	It was a fierce ointment from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen. I'm a little afraid that this debate has come out of course, when you look at what an actually agrees and what a disagrees about. From our point of view, it looks like there's more symbolism than the content you disagree with. It might also look like there's an emphasis on quantity from the opposition's side, while emphasising quality. Another thing I'm worried about is that one of these is making trouble at school that the school doesn't need right now, using symbolism and strong arguments in a matter where we almost agree, and where we argue about details. I could imagine some comments on my views from Dagrun Eriksen, plus a comment on whether she agrees or disagrees with the Bishop's meeting on the change of name.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e524	If this is a fierce ointment, I think a must look at what actually came from the Government. Clearly, in the first draft consultation the word Christianity was not mentioned in the legal text. There was not one word about Christianity there, in the name of the subject or something. It is clear that it has been an important task for us in the opposition to visualize what the Government is actually doing. No one had believed that the Workers' Party would be involved in this in the matter we have now been dealing with, because the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have traditionally agreed to create a common subject. As for the bishops, I agree with the bishops that the name is not what you teach from. The name is trivial, but it's an important symbol thing. The content of the subject is important. That's where the government parties have bombed and say that we should no longer have about half of the teaching of Christianity. That is, we'll get a third, if that's the competence goals to govern.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e531	The CRL has been sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights to infringe human rights. It is necessary and important to take the European Court of Human Rights seriously. It's under Norwegian law, and you have to take it seriously if you like it or not. The changes that government parties are presenting today are absolutely necessary changes in order not to violate human rights and not to risk a new case in the Human Rights Court. The proposals put forward by the Government are those from the leading trade unions in Norway, which say that these are absolute requirements. Both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Public Prosecutor and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights have said that these are absolutely necessary changes to prevent us from risking re-entering the Human Rights Court. My question to the representative Dagrun Eriksen is: What kind of legal basis does the opposition have to say that the government is going too far in the proposals they are promoting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e542	It's just to look at the proposal that the government has made. I have heard and heard the representative Jensen say that they are changing what is absolutely necessary to change. But was the name absolutely necessary to change? Was the quantity absolutely necessary to change? Both of the things we're discussing as issues of conflict in this room here today, there's good room in the judgment to be able to keep. Of course, there is a need for SV to say that this subject is not in line with human rights. It's actually wrong. If you're going to do a subject that you don't risk anyone ever going to report to the Human Rights Court, I think you have to cut out even more than the government parties have cut out. Christianity should then have been completely gone. This does not mean that we would be judged even if a trial was opened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e549	The Christian People's Party says they're going to go to the elections on this by changing RLE to CRL. I have some problems getting to grips with where the difference really is. By changing the percentage of Christian education, one does not change the goals of competence. What's most important in this? Isn't having the skills objectives clear and good? Isn't the percentage more immaterial in this? The second question concerns the name. You're saying this is a symbol thing. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party will go to elections in 2009 on symbols?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e556	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e559	The name has a signal effect. It is clear that with the content of the subject that the Christian People's Party wants, it would be quite natural to have a K. With the content of the subject that the Center Party now stands behind, I understand that it would almost be a violation of the marketing law to keep a K. That's why I understand that we disagree with the name of the subject we had. With regard to the discussion of skills objectives and percentages, I have listened carefully to what the government parties have said in this case, that we have had an imbalance between competence objectives and percentage targets. It takes the opposition's consequences off. We're saying that means that the skills targets need to be adjusted in line with the percentage goal, instead of taking the path that the Centre Party has done, and reducing the percentage target in line with the competence objectives. What the Center Party does will give 130 hours of less Christianity. With what the Christian People's Party does, you want to keep the subject you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e567	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e570	First of all, I would like to hear and should like to thank the rapporteur for the job she has done, and for the cooperation we have had, at least on parts of the proposed changes in the proposition. So it's like the government parties and the opposition are separating layers when it comes to large parts of the bill change proposals, but if the real disagreement is really that big, I'm still a little bit in doubt about it. I believe that all parties are concerned with having a religious and life philosophy that is as common and inclusive as possible for all, and that we all realize that in Norway we have an inheritance - humanistic and Christian - that it is important to be reflected in such a subject in a non-discriminatory way. We have the tradition of upholding human rights and not violating the international human rights obligations we have happily assumed. The Proposition of the Government involves changes in the training law of the subject currently known as CRL, Christianity, religion and life-viewing. Changes in the subject are proposed to ensure that knowledge of the different religions, life views and ethics is given in a qualitatively equivalent manner, and that the name of the subject changes accordingly, to RLE. For the Workers' Party, this is an important and necessary change in order to get a more collective and inclusive subject and to ensure that there is no doubt that the subject does not conflict with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD. Personally, I would say that these changes would be in place regardless of the judgment in the EMD. I think that the new subject to a greater extent than the CRL will be a subject adapted to our time. December 10, 1948, is a brand day in world history. On that day, 48 of the 56 member states of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted a non-binding document which has subsequently formed the basis for binding UN Conventions and for the European Convention on Human Rights. Much has happened since the Human Rights Declaration was adopted in 1948. In more and more parts of the world, human rights are respected as universal and inviolable. In many countries, the Convention on Human Rights is given precedence over national legislation, including: in Norway. It is a victory for humanity that we have international legal rules and binding agreements that regulate how countries should treat their citizens in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms. One last thing about this little siding to the matter: when the Heads of State agreed in 1948 on common rights, they met several challenges. One of the challenges was how they would meet the question of religion. Several countries wanted human rights to refer to a special religion. What they did was to drop the reference to a particular form of religion, just so that there would be universal rights that would apply to everyone, regardless of religion and view of life. The reason I have spent some time on this is that one of the key points in this case is the judgment that has come from the EMD. The judgment shall be binding on Norway. The human rights here form a back ground for the changes we want to make today. For me, the judgment reinforces the view I have had on the subject of KRL, which with the changes is made more inclusive in the name and in the clarification of the content. There is respect for those who chose to run the case for the EMD, after they did not comply with Norwegian courts. The judgment of the EMD states that they chose to do the right thing. We have to take note of that. That is why we are proposing the changes we are discussing today. So the opposition believes that the ministry goes much further in its amendments than the judgment of the EMD provides a factual basis. The opposition should be correct: the judgment of the EMD is based on the 1997–2001 run-in period and changes have been made subsequently to address this issue. However, I am absolutely sure that with the changes we are making today, which is a further follow-up to the changes we have already made, we will have a subject that stands by. Now I will not go in and interpret the judgment from the EMD further. The proposal of the Government is in line with the recommendation of the legal expert, both the Public Prosecutor and our leading human rights lawyers. If the case was that we could make minor changes, it is a bad argument for the Workers' Party against the changes that have been proposed. If the case was that we went further than we absolutely had to, I believe that the changes we are proposing are good to ensure a common and inclusive subject, respect for human rights and respect for each individual's faith and belief. As I said at the outset, I don't think the disagreement about the content of the subject is as big as it might seem. It was desirable for us in the government parties to bring the opposition in a cumulative setting. The Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party may need to make their mark on this matter. But the fact that the Right and not least the Left could not be with the government parties, is somewhat more strange. Right chooses to join the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, also at the point where the most critical criticism of the EMD, § 2-4. What legal expertise is used by the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right to find that this proposal is good in relation to our human rights obligations? The left's proposal for § 2-4 is slightly different from the government's proposal. I respect the fact that the Left needs to clarify this with the peculiarity of each religion and every way of life, but at the same time invites the Left to vote subsidiaryly for the Government's proposals at this point. The name change also creates a split, which I have some problems understanding. The name RLE gives a better match through the course of education, and it does not leave the impression that a religion or a view of life takes precedence. The Bishops' Meeting also supports the proposed name change. But the Christian People's Party, the Advancement Party and the Right believe that this is not enough. Of course, the most important thing is the content of the subject, but the name also stands as a symbol. It was also the representative Eriksen. I record that it is symbolically important for the Christian People's Party, the Advancement Party and the Right to give Christianity a special status in the name of the subject. It's not for government parties. The Committee agrees on the proposal for an exemption. We clarify the requirement that parents receive good information about the content of the training. The first paragraph of Section 2-3a provides for exemptions from some parts of the teaching, but not from the knowledge content of the curriculum. If this is seen in the context of the changes that will contribute to a more comprehensive and inclusive subject, I think we will get a subject that will suit most people and that will contribute to knowledge, understanding and tolerance. There have been major changes since the school started and Christian knowledge was introduced as a compulsory subject in 1739 - a series of legislative changes from the disenter law in 1845, through the law of trudom and ymist others in 1969, life vision education as an alternative in 1974 and the change to the CRL in 1997. One thing we can at least see: promises have come and gone, legal provisions have been introduced, amended and removed - all in order to adapt to new realities and a new society. Fortunately, we still have a big one that can adopt new laws and change older ones, and that things are not adopted once and for all. Society is changing. We're getting a new insight and facing new realities we have to deal with. The changes in the laws we are adopting today contribute to a new science of religion, of life and of ethics that is better adapted to today's society. The content shall be qualitatively similar in all aspects of the subject, while recognising that Norway has a long history as a Christian country and that it is also reflected in the subject. The name of the subject removes any doubt that some religion or some way of life is given priority - not least, we remove the lack of consistency of the subject with our international human rights obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e611	‘The matter shall remain a mixture of life’s vision, ethics and religion. But it won’t give Christianity any special status,” said the Labour Party’s fractional leader, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, to NTB on April 23rd this year. The government parties will now remove the percentage distribution of 55 pst. of the teaching. My question is then: What does the Workers' Party mean by Christianity not having a special position? And how will the Workers' Party at the same time ensure that Christian knowledge is more than half the teaching of the RLE subject, as they say in their comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e618	For the government parties, it has been important that with the changes we make in the subject, we make sure that we get a subject that is in line with the judgment of the EMD as a minimum. So even if you remove the percentage distribution, you still recognize that Christianity has a central place in Norway and that it has to be taught in it. It's not the quantitative that's been the important thing here, it's the qualitative. Then I would also like to point out that it's not just in the field of RLE that you meet Christianity. If you have Norwegian, you have history, you encounter a lot that says something about the Christian tradition we have in Norway. So you just focus on this subject, you don't get right, with that variety of subjects in school that can also say something about our Christian heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e627	The representative, Gorm Kjernli, said in his introduction that the changes that are now being made would be in place regardless of the judgment. I guess we're at a nucleus here. The proposed amendments are proposed completely independent of the judgment. My question to the representative Gorm Kjernli is really very simple: if there is a need to change the name in order to comply with the judgment, if there is a need to change the quantity of Christianity in the subject in order to comply with the judgment, why aren't those points mentioned as necessary criteria in the judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e634	What we're doing now is changing the subject so that it becomes more consistent with the judgment of the EMD. As I said in my post, I believe that these changes are right, regardless of that, to make sure that we have a subject -- RLE -- that qualitatively treats all religions, all life views, and also the ethics part. So there's a question of the percentage estimate. I guess there's no other subject in school that has a rule that you have to teach percentages in individual elements of the subject. There has been something that has given the KRL subject a special status. Then you remove the 55 pst rule. But that doesn't mean that Christianity doesn't still have a quantitatively greater share than the other religions, but it has to be taught in an objective, pluralistic way that is qualitatively equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e641	The representative, Kjerli, said in his speech that the Right now chooses to cooperate with the Christian People's Party. KRL has actually been a subject that has been the Workers' Party and Christian People's Party, because before 1997, we had a school system that made our students never meet to talk about ethics, to talk about religions -- across which religion they belonged. Both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party saw the need to gather this into a common subject. It weighed heavily for both of us that we were able to deliver a subject in line with human rights. We did, and therefore we also agreed on changes in the subject in retrospect, based on evaluations. But does the Workers' Party now feel comfortable drumming through this hopefully temporary subject with the smallest possible majority in the Storting, thus breaking the broad consensus it has had on the subject in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e646	It was important for the government parties to reach a broad consensus on this. As the representative Eriksen certainly remembers, it was negotiations to reach an agreement on this. Then it became so that the opposition put its foot down and would not be on the government's proposal. I believe that the Government's proposal is a good proposal to ensure that the subject is in line with our international human rights obligations. The Labour Party has previously defended the KRL subject. But then we realized that the CRL we had was not in line with the international human rights obligations we have. Then we change our view of it and adapt to the new realities, in line with yesterday's clear evidence that the Christian People's Party has adapted to new realities and is now a follower of the Partnership Act. So you change your mind and you get new realities across the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e653	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e656	I will first be allowed to thank the President-in-Office for a good job and then make it clear that it was not important for the Government to widen the scope of this subject. It was the rapporteur who initiated negotiations on this subject. It had nothing to do with the Government, so here it should be honored to be honored. In this context, Dagrun Eriksen took the initiative. Unfortunately, this did not come forward, and the reason might well be, as the representative Kernli himself said, that the opposition did not participate in the Government's proposal. So I'll continue with some general considerations about fear. I believe that in more and more cases it is clear that the sitting government is afraid not to be politically correct or at least not to be seen as politically correct in some environments. It appears that the Government has acquired an inherent fear of not being sufficiently neutral in its approach to important value issues. It is important to safeguard minority rights, but it is equally important that minorities do not impose their ideas and values on the majority under the cover of intolerance. I have noticed with interest that the Prime Minister has said on several occasions that the 2009 elections will be a choice of values. I agree, for this government is contributing strongly to weakening our nation's traditional cultural heritage and the basis for the value base on which Norway is based. Fears arise, among other things. the fact that a person should not mention Christianity or Christian values without mentioning at the same time all other religions and minorities. I am sure that most people notice that the government is removing the traditional anchoring of marriage, that they will neutralize the purpose of school and kindergarten, that they will prevent schoolchildren from singing for the food, and that they will now destroy the quantitative emphasis of Christianity on the KRL subject in teaching. I therefore agree with the Prime Minister that the 2009 elections will be a choice of values, but not in the way he formulates it, because he is trying to create a fictitious disagreement on welfare, and all voters with radio or television know that the Progress Party is fighting for people's well-being. The choice of values will stand between us who dare to say something about the values this society is based on -- we who dare to hold on to centuries of Christian tradition, later supplemented with a humanistic value perspective -- and those who contribute to the rapprochement of the nation's value base. The CRL subject was the subject of broad political consensus when it was introduced in 1997. Various adjustments have been made since then, both by the trade plan and the exemption clause, which have also had a broad political base. The judgment against Norway from the EMD assesses the subject and its compilation before these changes were implemented. In other words, the premise in the judgment is not about the facts that are real today, but about historical facts and not about the CRL subject today. Therefore, when government parties claim that the proposed changes come as a consequence of the judgment alone, it is quite daunting. It's directly wrong. Today’s CRL subject is not the subject of the EMD assessment, but the subject that was the starting point for the important changes. This of course the government parties know well, but there is little doubt that especially the SV's attitude affects the government itself in these kinds of issues. That the Center Party and the Workers' Party are unable to hold back, I notice with a certain interest. If one had taken the trouble to read the judgment, it would be seen that the references made by the court were largely taken care of by the changes already made. It is also worth noting that this judgment in the EMD has been passed with the maximum of this. This means that at least there was considerable legal disagreement at the time of whether the old CRL subject was within or outside the framework set by the EMK. And you might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. It is known that there have been conversations between all the parties, which I was in the place, but the conversations have not taken place. One of the reasons I think is that for the Advancement Party, it is important that one should not reduce the position of our Christian and humanistic heritage, nor the KRL. One must actually have knowledge and understanding of Norway's Christian background and history in order to understand important elements in our history and in our daily lives today. So far, it has been stated that the proportion of the subject dealing with Christianity should be about 55 pst. The government's bill reduces this to a third. It happens despite the fact that the Government, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur, through Secretary of State Lisbet Rugtvedt, promised that the share of teaching in Christianity should not be reduced as a result of the changes proposed by the Government. The government doesn't keep words in this area either. That means that the government parties, the Central Party included - and I mention it specifically - will not maintain our nation's Christian history as the clearly most important part of the subject. This can have some consequences that today do not appear to be quite clear. The CRL subject - which from now on will be the RLE subject - should not be and has never been a service provider. It has treated all religions with equal respect according to their peculiarity. But it has been important to help students understand and understand the tradition of which they are part. Now the scope of teaching in this field will be significantly reduced, and the insight of students will probably follow. The Progress Party is concerned that government parties are now implementing reforms of a different nature, both in this matter and in other matters, which will mean that one will reduce the awareness of our cultural heritage. The recognition of the value base that we unanimously decided to support in the Constitution new Section 2 does not allow for further growth in the school through the new subject. It is sad that the socialists should rule our Christian heritage even further out of school education. The red parties believe that the changes proposed in this case should make the subject more robust and ensure a break-up that preserves the position of the subject. I want to underline it. It does not seem that the government parties have reflected in particular on the realities surrounding this. All opposition parties oppose the Government's proposal. Three of us have gathered around a much better alternative, and it is not unthinkable that we will get another round of this issue after the 2009 elections if the election results give room for it, which is reason to hope. However, claiming that the subject with this change becomes more robust is completely reversed. The change is at risk of having a duration of more than one year. It is also part of the story that today we should really debate the school's purpose paragraph. The Government’s proposal for a new purpose paragraph will also help to weaken the importance of Christianity as a premiscuous supplier of values to be reflected in school if adopted. Now the government parties have rightly insisted on rethinking, and I hope that it indicates that they are actually willing to move their starting point in the matter. It's in itself good, but also here there could be room for a much more open approach from the government parties if they actually wanted width. We are now in a situation where a subject that has previously accumulated a total stagnation behind it changes character and is adopted by a scarce majority today. There will be a vote on three different proposals, and it shows that this government and government parties do not have the ability to achieve what in their time made this subject robust and at all possible, namely political gathering. The three parties use majority power again, and they do so because they have a majority, not because they want to strengthen or maintain the profession. Then I want to search the line change between the representative Dagrun Eriksen and the representative de Ruiter, because de Ruiter was injured to say that the government and government parties were concerned with quality, while the opposition was concerned with quantity. There's a little strange perception of the problem, because what's been the main problem is that there should not be a qualitative difference between the different parts of the subject, but there may be a quantitative difference. That means that I fear that the representative de Ruiter has simply misunderstood this part of the problem. Perhaps with this clarification he can help to change his vote later today. I also think it is worth searching the line exchange between the representative Lena Jensen and Dagrun Eriksen. The representative Jensen said that these changes were absolutely necessary to avoid a new case in the European Court of Human Rights. I would like the representative Jensen to confirm that she can guarantee that with these changes we will not have a new case brought against the state of Norway. I do not think the representative Jensen can do that, but I am quite sure that with this - and also with the opposition's proposal - we will not be re-judged in the EMD, and that is what this is really about. And I'm glad that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party once again find each other in an important value question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e698	I have to pull a little bit on the smiley tape. There was a lot of discontent here. So now one of the dangerous red socialists is going to try to answer as best he can. The representative Anders Anundsen used the word "racing" - there is probably only one statement missing that he is deeply shocked, that was probably the only thing missing from the adjectives in the discontent theory. But to what's one of the core points here, on which the opposition runs very hard, that one wouldn't be judged by the opposition's suggestion. I wonder, and there are many of us who wonder: What legal competence are you building on? Could you please answer that in a concrete way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e705	It's always nice to be able to help the representative de Ruiter pull the smile ribbon, and it's nice that I could do it. It is also funny that he claims that he should respond to the challenges of my reply. I don't think he did it particularly well, so I wish him better luck with that in his post. So it's that I don't easily let myself be shocked, and I just don't let myself be shocked at that government like, among other things. consists of the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party, the ability to present as many proposals as possible that help to force the Christian basic values out of important subjects in school and also out of large sections of other subjects, and carry out reforms that the Norwegian people may well be skeptical about. As for the legal competence, I think I did quite well for some of the elements of my post. When this debate is over, the representative can go back and print what I said, he gets the answer there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e714	The European Court of Human Rights has condemned the CRL to be offensive to human rights. This is serious, and whether we like it or not, we have to deal with it. One of the areas in which the CRL profession has been critically criticised is the percentage distribution currently in the CRL sector, with 55 pst. Christianity, other religions are to be used 25 pst. of the time to, and ethics and philosophy to use 20 pst. of time left. It is said that the percentage distribution is qualitatively different from the content of the subject and that one should spend more time achieving the goals of competence within Christianity than in other aspects of life. The other subjects in the school have curricula that govern training in order to achieve the knowledge goals that you have. What's happening to the new subject now is that you base your skills goals, and they haven't changed from the past. My question to the representative is: why will the Progress Party not support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e725	The query's premises are wrong. It is not the CRL subject that is now in use in our schools, which has been convicted in the EMD, it is the subject that was originally adopted in 1997. As the representative is aware, following several important changes have been made which largely satisfy the critical points raised by the European Court of Human Rights. If the representative had taken the time to read the whole sentence, not only a few sections of it, she would also see that the emphasis on quantity in this subject is legitimated through the judgment. It is quite concrete that in view of the historical situation in Norway, in relation to Christianity, it is accepted that we can have quantitative discrimination, without meaning that there is qualitative discrimination. That's why it's the representative Lena Jensen who should go on her own and wonder why she can't support the opposition's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e730	First, I want to try to correct the representative in relation to the fact that the central party is called a red party and a socialist party. So we're a green party, and we're a center party, just so it's fixed. We have a lot of common values with the other center parts here in the Storting. There must be no doubt about it. I just want to ask questions about the Christian basic values. The representative uses quite powerful words when he says that the government will force the Christian basic values out of school. I'm not in the committee, but I've read the setting, and I don't see the huge differences in what's being written. So what does the representative mean that the government will force the Christian basic values out of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e737	First of all, I'm aware that the Center Party does not like to be called a red party, and that they will appear as green and as a center party. But unfortunately, reality speaks to itself: the centre party was a green party, now it's red, and it's getting increasingly red. We are also looking at what this government is now forcing through on important value issues. When I said in my post that it is an attack on the Christian values in school, it is not just this matter, but it is due to, for example, the fact that it is. The government's proposal for changes to the purpose paragraph, where one completely erases what has been the Christian and humanistic basis of value in Norwegian school. I understand that the Skjälaa without having seen the proposal for a purpose paragraph from the Government does not see the big difference here. But when you see these things in context, it is a clear attack on what are the traditional Christian and humanistic values in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e747	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e750	First, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. As many people have been involved, there were attempts at conversations, and there were real conversations between the opposition parties and the government parties, but unfortunately they did not lead forward. The background for the introduction of the CRL subject in its time was the desire to create a pooling school subject that gave students knowledge of different religions and views of life, but with particular emphasis on Christianity by giving it a ‘quantitative priority’ in teaching. It was introduced in 1997, and it is a subject that has created waves ever since its introduction. For the right, it has been important in the process we've been through in the committee, to stress one thing that is particularly important: we need to know ourselves to understand others. It is important that students in Norwegian school today get a thorough and good knowledge of all religions and views of life, but also of Christianity, which has helped shape Norway through a thousand-year tradition and heritage. In connection with the agreement on state and church, we were able to agree on a cumulative value clause in the Constitution. It sounds, among other things, as follows: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. ‘... Then there are many of us who really think it's quite disappointing that we couldn't find the same consensus in one as important as this is. But that's how the Government, and maybe especially the Swedish Government, wants a different religious and life philosophy than what we have today. That's all right. What's not as good is that one conceals important matters through a rather selective use of what the Human Rights Court says in its judgment. I'll get back to it a little bit. And not least, you use a sentence on the subject as it was eleven years ago to legitimize changes in the subject today. I have to say, in the light of all the speeches that have been so far, that to the extent that there is unrest in the school and unrest around the subject, there is something that the government parties must take on in that they have caused considerable concern about how the subject is now to be understood, and not least significant concern because they are losing weight on the Christian and humanistic heritage. There is a fundamental disagreement between the opposition parties and the government parties on the interpretation of the judgment. The Council of State has repeatedly said both implicitly and quite clearly that those who disagree with the Government's interpretation of the judgment want a subject that is contrary to human rights and contrary to what the Court says. No one wants a subject that is contrary to human rights. But it's part of the Stortinget that doesn't see the need to go beyond what the court says. And the government parties, as many have been involved, have committed themselves to going far beyond what the court requires. Substantial changes were made to the subject both in 2002 and 2005, and the issues at the time have largely been addressed. In order to address both the judgment and the changes that have taken place: the judgment dates from 2007, and it relates to the subject as it was in the course of the procedure between 1997 and 2001. It is natural that it does, precisely because it takes a long time to get a case before the EMD, as all national remedies must be exhausted in advance. There are also interesting points in my opinion related to the changes made over the years with the subject. Firstly, the link to the school's purpose paragraph was removed from § 2-4 in 2005. That's one of the points that the court criticises, the close link between the CRL subject and a Christian purpose paragraph. So that's all cleaned up. Secondly, it's cleaned up in the exemption clause. In the past, you had to apply for an exemption - today you report an exemption. So you don't have to justify why you don't want to participate in the education. It's a verdict that's passed under strong this one's, 9-8. So it means that in the near future it's very clear what is the right legal understanding, and at least it's a paradox that one emphasizes so strongly a judgment given during so many years afterwards about a subject that in fact no longer exists in the form that the court handles it. As I said, the change proposed by the Government goes beyond what the opposition considers necessary. It does not require a change in the subject, it does not require a change in the quantitative precedence of Christianity, and so we have, as I was told, a break in the link between a purpose paragraph and the CRL subject. When several of the representatives from the government parties ask what legal expertise we lean on, the answer to that is pretty simple. We're leaning on the verdict, and we're reading the verdict from the EMD. Then it becomes quite clear that the elements that the Government is proposing to change are not of such a nature that they are necessary. The judgment did not criticise the name CRL itself, the distribution of the quantity of substances or the possibility of local adaptation by pushing some objectives of competence into higher class steps. But the government, in its proposal, chooses to ignore this and uses the sentence as a justification. It's wrong in the Right's view, and we still haven't got any good reason why you're doing just these changes, which means the judgment doesn't require. The government writes in its press release of 7 December 2007: ‘The Government proposes to change the name of the CRL subject to Religion, Life View and Ethics as one of several measures to follow up the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. ‘... State Secretary Lisbet Rugtvedt stated in the newspaper Our Country 2 February 2008 that ‘The Ministry considers that name-change is essential in order to respond to signals from the human rights sentence against the subject in Strasbourg’. So with this, the government is trying to give the impression that a change in name is necessary to meet the requirements of the sentence. In fact, the judgment does not refer to the name as a critical point. In spite of this and despite the wording of the letter of hearing, the entire number of copies went to 75 pst. of the 159 hearing bodies which delivered their opinions, shall accept the removal of the K in the name of the subject. Then it's important not to overlook the difference between qualitative and quantitative primacy. The European Court of Human Rights makes it quite clear that today's emphasis must be accepted in the light of the tradition we have in Norway. The judgment states that the fact that knowledge of Christianity represents a greater part of the subject than knowledge of other religions and views of life does not mean that the law itself cannot be seen as a deviation from the principles of pluralism and objectivity. In view of the importance of Christianity in the national history and tradition of the country, this must be considered to fall within the country's discretionary margin in terms of the planning and construction of the subject. It is about the exact opposite of the representative Lena Jensen in several line changes. That it should not be a preaching profession has been agreed from the very beginning. The training was taken out of school in 1969, and the CRL subject has not been, is not and should not be a service provider. The fact that there have occasionally been cases of preaching instruction in the subject is contrary to all parties in the Stortinget. There's no need to change the law to clarify it. It's already in the law, and it's going to stay in the law. I will also be allowed to express a concern that I feel is quite real. I'm concerned that we can now come back to a situation where we are called for a two-part subject, where we are called for a purely Christian subject and a subject that takes care of other religions and views of life, but that does not have the same emphasis on Christianity. The reason for this is that there are already quite a number of people who now think that the subject is being so diluted in the field of Christian education that they want to get back to the old model. I believe it would be a defeat if in 2008 we in Norway failed to create a common schooling that both emphasizes our Christian and humanistic heritage and takes into account other religions and views of life and teaches other religions and views of life. We're traveling around the world to tell us that we're good at peace mediation and conflict resolution, but then we can't do the whole elemental thing, to present to our children and Norwegian students a subject where it's taught in Christian knowledge and in other religions and life's views. I think it would be a defeat for a subject I am sincerely concerned with strengthening and rocking, and I hope that the debate we have today can contribute to, to some extent at least, informing those who listen to, and those who read newspapers, watch television and hear radio, that there is actually a difference of opinion between the opposition parties and the government parties as regards the emphasis on Norway's Christian and humanist heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e813	As the representative Eriksen Soreide had in mind, there were negotiations between the government parties and the opposition, initiated by the case rapporteur. It would have been important not least for the school if there had become a broad majority in this matter. The whole thing is that the subject is not ‘objective, critical and pluralistic’, which makes the government promote the amendments. The right is usually a responsible party, and I thought they would agree with us that it was important to follow up and take seriously the judgments we get from the Human Rights Court. So it surprises me that the Right here finds together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in their symbolic vision. Is this the Right's own vision, or is it something they do to take the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party? Is it so that there is a Christian People's Party that is critical of what Right is supposed to mean, and will the Right, like the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party and what they have announced, take a rematch on the subject in connection with the 2009 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e818	The right has always been and is still a responsible party, and that's exactly what we're showing through the setting we're now delivering. We show that we take seriously all the critical voices that have come, and we show that we take seriously the judgment of the EMD. We are together with the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party - and so on, the Left, who are going to vote against the Government's amendment - those who take responsibility for what is actually in the judgment being fulfilled. What government parties are trying to do, and all the time they've been trying to do, is go much further than the sentence requires. I cannot, with my best will, understand that it is more responsible for a government party to go beyond what the judgment requires, introduce changes that are strongly disputed, and create great concerns about a school subject that is to be collective for all, than to ensure that what is actually in the judgment is dealt with through the proposals submitted by the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e823	Despite the intervention by the representative, I argued that both the lawyer and the magnificent Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide found it serious that Norway was convicted in the European Court of Human Rights for violating human rights. It didn't sound like that on the post, but I did. So we're in a situation where we're forced to eliminate any possible doubt that a school-based philosophy of life is in violation of human rights. Both the Public Prosecutor and the U.D.'s human rights expert and also hearing statements from the Institute for Human Rights have supported the changes made by the Government. When I hear the representative's comments, I wonder, in the interest that the debate is also part of the preliminary work, if the representative really thinks that the Right has a better basis than the ones I've been taught, among other things. The Attorney General, to assess how we are to ensure that this subject complies with human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e832	Of course, it is serious that Norway has been convicted in the EMD, but it has also taken the consequences of the changes made in 2002 and 2005, which directly address what the Court considers to be some of the most critical factors, namely the link between a Christian purpose paragraph and a CRL subject, and a limited scope for exemption which required an application for exemption, rather than a medium-term exemption, and thus also justify why a request for exemption was made. It's already cleaned up. I therefore consider that to be the case with the changes that previous governments have made. With regard to Elvik's attempt to say that we should now remove any doubt that the subject is a human rights issue, I am of that opinion, and it is also the other opposition parties, that the changes we are now proposing make the subject a good match to human rights. What's the problem with the government party is that they're going to eliminate any doubt that there's ever going to be a case raised again or that they're ever going to be convicted in court. You can never do that under any circumstances, and if that's the starting point, we can just just skip the whole CRL thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e839	I would like to repeat my question: does it mean that the representative believes that the Right and the rest of the opposition on the Stortinget have a better legal competence to assess whether the subject actually complies with human rights, as it is such a heavy legal environment in Norway that has supported the Government, for example. The government attorney?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e844	Then I must also repeat my answer: I believe that the changes proposed by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, and also the Left, are well in line with what is required in relation to the judgment. It is not required in the judgment to change the name, it is not required in the judgment to change the quantitative primacy of Christianity, nor is it required to change the rules for shifting competences up to other class steps. My point is just to say that the changes we're making are good in line with what the court requires. What is of legal expertise and opinions supported by the Government is, of course, related to the subject as it was in 1997–2001. That subject no longer exists. The subject is out of Norwegian school just because there have been so many changes in retrospect both with the right of exemption and the link between the purpose paragraph and the CRL subject that existed before 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e851	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e854	Norway was sentenced to the European Court of Human Rights on 29 June 2007. We were convicted of violating human rights because of the CRL in school. The EMD has concluded that the curriculum of the subject and the legal framework of the subject violate the European Convention on Human Rights. It's serious, and we have to change the CRL. That is why today we have this debate, and therefore the majority of the CRLs are changing to a religious, life-view and ethics subject, so that the subject is consistent with human rights, and so that we are sure that we do not risk being re-judged. We cannot choose whether we will follow the judgment of the Human Rights Court. We have to be consistent. Some parties here in the hall choose not to change anything, just because they don't like the verdict, and they want to ignore it. When the Human Rights Court says that we have a subject that violates -- I underline violations -- human rights, we have to take it seriously. The government has used the top legal disciplines we have in Norway in this area to look at what changes are needed to keep us within human rights. The changes adopted today by the majority have been made by both the Minister of Government, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Institute of Human Rights, which have been said to be necessary - I stress the need - in order to avoid being re-judged. What legal assistance has the opposition used when writing in the setting that we have gone too far in relation to the necessary changes that we are making? I must honestly say that I am very sorry that we do not have the opposition to the changes that we are adopting today. One cannot just opt out of the judgment of the Human Rights Court simply because one does not like to hear what the judgment says. I would like to remind you that the Human Rights Court is above Norwegian law. The name of the subject is changed to religion, view of life and ethics. This is done because the name CRL gives Christianity a distinctive character and gives the impression that Christianity is something different from other religions. Changing names will give an important signal of a qualitatively equivalent treatment of all religions and views of life. The name religion, outlook and ethics will reflect the content of the subject in a good way. I'm glad the Left is on the change of name. The new RLE subject is a subject for a common arena, for a real dialogue and exchange of respect and tolerance between different religions and life views. The percentage distribution between the different life views that are currently represented in the subject CRL is as follows: Christianity should have 55 pst. of time, other religions and views of life shall have 25 pst., and ethics and philosophy shall have 20 pst. In the new subject, we remove the percentage distribution. The percentage distribution is qualitatively different from the content of the subject. One clearly says that one should spend more time achieving the goals of competence in Christianity than in the other concepts of life and religion and ethics. The percentage distribution is one of the things that the Court of Human Rights has used to justify its judgment. The percentage targets are also not in line with the other subjects in the school, which means that one sends out signals that the CRL is a different subject from the other subjects in the school, which do not have a percentage distribution. After the change, the school will be free to choose how to achieve the objectives of the curriculum. They'll be able to choose which method they want to use, what teaching tools they want to use, and how long they'll spend on the different elements. However, the objectives of competence in the subject stand firm, i.e.: that the curriculum has not changed with regard to the lessons to be learned by young people. In the curriculum, there are more matters of competence in Christianity than in other subjects. That means that you have more time, and will spend more time, on Christianity than on the other subjects. But it is also true that the actual use of time in terms of skills objectives could be shifted. That means that one in a school will be able to spend more time on any subject you want, as long as one reaches the goals of competence in the curriculum. That is the purpose of the entire curriculum: one shall achieve the objectives of competence that you have set, and one shall achieve the objectives of competence that have always been in the CRL field. It must be a relief for schools not to have to use stopwatches in the training of the new religion, life-vision and ethics discipline. The RLE subject implies that the teaching of the subject should give knowledge of Christianity, other world religions, views of life and ethics in a qualitatively equivalent way, and contribute to understanding and respect for different perceptions. Different religions and views shall be presented in accordance with human rights in an objective, critical and pluralistic manner. It's a task for us politicians to create an inclusive common school where we're engaged in what binds us together. After this change, we can stand upright and say that we have a common inclusive RLE subject that builds bridges and creates trust and tolerance, and that gives knowledge within the individual religions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e880	I discovered that the SV representative is still talking about a CRL subject that we have not had in Norwegian school since 2002. But my question is that SV wants a religiously neutral kindergarten and school where all religions and views of life are equal. How has SV intended this to be practiced, and how will SV, on that basis, ensure that Christianity continues to be the quantitatively largest part of the subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e885	SV wants a subject in school that complies with human rights. I would remind the representative that the reason we're here today is that we're convicted by the European Court of Human Rights because we have a subject that violates human rights. This is serious. The RLE subject that will now enter the school will be a subject that will provide students with a good knowledge of Christianity and other world religions and about life views and ethics in a qualitatively equivalent way, and it will be a subject that will create understanding, respect and dialogue and build bridges between different life views and religions. We haven't changed the skills objectives of what was previously the CRL subject. That means that all the objectives of competence that you have in your curriculum -- because the curriculum is the governing force for the activity that is taking place within each subject -- have not changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e895	The representative, Lena Jensen, is still pointing out that we have a subject that is contrary to human rights. But we had a subject that was in conflict with human rights between 1997 and 2001. That situation has now ceased. But there has been a lot of discussion about the verdict and what the verdict says. Then I have two very simple questions that should be very simple to answer for the representative Jensen. The first question is, does the judgment require a change of name for the subject to be in line with human rights? The second question is, does judgment require a change in the quantity of Christianity to be in line with human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e902	I want to remind the representative that the reason we are here today is that we have a sentence from last year on a CRL subject we have today that violates human rights. Our task then is to bring in a subject that will be inclusive and not violate human rights. We have used the highest legal competence and expertise in Norway in this area. They have given clear, clear advice as to what one needs to change to be within the framework of not breaking human rights. I am very pleased with the proposal put forward by the Government today, which shows that we will now have a subject that will be upbuilding for human rights, which will be inclusive, which will create respect, but which will also have in it the Christian cultural heritage that we have from before, because this government does not change the competences that have been underlying and have always been within the CRL field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e909	I registered that it was probably a little unanswered. But let me pick another angle of incidence. This must be a brilliant day for SV. We've heard articles in this room today and yesterday about historical sus. And today, SV has further reduced the place of Christianity in our society. I have a question. If a future state council uses the words that then State Council Djupedal used about the purpose section, that is, that it should be cut into stone, then there will be references to where that expression comes from and what that means. Few will have knowledge to understand the national culture and taxes of our society. So my question is really, briefly: is SV happy, and do you think it's historical nonsense about, the decision we're making today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e918	SV has always been concerned that we should have subjects in school that do not violate human rights, that we should have subjects that build up every child in school, and that create cohesion and build bridges. I am very pleased that the majority is now going to adopt a proposal that we are sure will not violate human rights. We now have a subject that's open, that's inclusive, and that will be incredibly exciting for the students to start off with. I'm very concerned that it's important that we remove the percentage, because it feels that this gives Christianity a qualitative advantage over the other religions. But then I would like to stress that we keep the curriculum, and it is the curriculum that governs all subjects. Now all schools will have the opportunity to dispose of their own time. They will have the opportunity to choose which way they will use to achieve the skills objectives, and how much time they will spend to achieve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e930	As the debate has already shown, this amendment is not an optional exercise, but a necessary adjustment to bring curriculum and special laws into line with the international conventions of which Norway is bound. Having said that, the central party believes that the proposed changes are in a good way in keeping with what has always been the intentions of the CRL subject, and that the proposed changes will thus give the subject greater legitimacy. The changes will, in the opinion of the Centre Party, make the subject more robust and ensure a revival that preserves the position of the subject as a collective subject in the school, which is also considered important by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. We have to keep this as a common subject. Some parties seem to have a clear marking need and choose to tighten the bow high in this case, we have heard that. But we believe that there is no reason. I have noticed that one of the architects behind the KRL subject, mountaineer Erling Pettersen, is optimistic on behalf of the subject and shares our opinion that the proposed adjustments do not pose a threat to dramatic changes in the subject, but consider the changes to be marginal. The party to the hearing indicates that the letter of formal notice contained a proposal to take out the indents of the applicable legal paragraph which describes the content of the subject itself, and to move them into the curriculum itself, because the wording of the indents of the first paragraph of Section 2-4 is central to the criticism of the subject in the judgments of the Court of Justice which form the basis for the judgment. The party at the centre is very pleased that the Government, at this point, proposes a substantial change from the letter of consultation by proposing to keep a separate paragraph in sections 2 to 4 which describes the content of the subject, to replace the indents taken out. This gives a clear foundation for continuing to reflect the particular position of Christianity in Norway, while ensuring that the subject complies with human rights. The centre party considers the actual content and framework of the subject to be of greater importance than the forward name of the subject. The proposal refers to the fact that the proposed change of name will give better consistency through the training cycle. Thus, in our view, the change of name will fulfil a practical function, while the name will not give the impression that one religion takes precedence over the other religions and views of life. In this context, it is worth noting that the hearing opinions of the Bishops’ Meeting do not consider the subject’s name to be a major and crucial issue. They fully support the proposed change of name. One important element in the matter is that the judgment does not affect the quantitative weighting of Christianity in the subject. On the contrary, Norway is of the opinion that the teaching of the subject may contain a quantitative overweight of Christianity based on historical circumstances. Let me therefore stress that the liquidation of the percentage distribution of the main subjects in the subject as expressed today in the curriculum does not imply a shift in the objective of competence. I would refer here to the proposition, which, on the contrary, argues that the new curriculum should explicitly state that knowledge of Christianity is still to have the quantitative majority of the teaching material. In practice, this means that there will still be room for local variation in the actual distribution between the main subjects of education in order to achieve these objectives of competence. In sum: The continuing legalisation of the subject directly in the Training Act, the wording of new § 2-4 and the continuation of the curriculum objectives mean that the place of Christianity in the current KRL subject is ensured in the new RLE subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e949	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e952	The representative of the Kärlaa cannot have discussed this issue much with his colleagues in the Socialist Left, at least, because their conclusion is completely opposite to the conclusion of the Kärlaa towards the end here, namely that the quantitative proportion is maintained. The reality is that when one now removes the 55 percent rule, one goes back to the competence goals as governing, and they will give room for that 33 pst. The term of instruction shall be applied to Christianity. So it's quite obvious that the Skjäla's conclusion in this area is wrong. I have to say I'm a little disappointed in the Center Party, because they say they won't be red, but they're going to keep the center part of being green. But they go hand in hand with the Socialist Left Party also in this area to erase large parts of what has been the speciality of Christianity in school, and they do so also with regard to the proposal of the Government on the new purpose paragraph. Is the representative of the Kschlalaa comfortable with the Central Party in these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e964	I am very comfortable with the Central Party in government and with what this government gets. I am also very comfortable - which I hope the representative heard - with the proposal relating to the RLE subject that is to be voted on today. I think there will be very much symbolism policy and very little consistency in what the representative asks questions about. I miss a concreteization from the Progress Party of what the Christian basic values are, and what it is about this change in law that erodes the Christian basic values, as the representative expressed both in his post and in a previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e971	Not enough that the representative Schjälaa could hardly have discussed his positions with SV. He can't have discussed them very well with his own parties either, because while the representative Schjellaa believes that these are necessary changes that in a good way fulfill the intentions of the subject and make the subject more robust, his party colleagues in this room believe the exact opposite. In our country on December 11, 2007, we could read that center party summits asked for help from the outside to regain the Christian heritage as a heavy base in the new philosophy of life. Hedmark representative Trygve Magnus Schlagsvold Vedum replies as follows: ‘No’. And Mr Per Olaf Lundtigen is equally cash: ‘I don’t see the need for a change in the CRL subject’. Then the question is very simple: which central party is what we're going to listen to? Is it the centre party that has the grassroots in the centre party to be oppositional to the changes proposed by the government parties, or is it the centre party that stands before me in the pulpit today, who suddenly believes that these are absolutely necessary changes that strengthen the subject and make it more robust?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e978	The bill for which we have a majority today in Odelstinget, has been changed in relation to the letter of consultation that went out. The Group of the Centre Party is pleased with the proposal for a legislative decision to be voted on by Odelstinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e984	There's a lot of people who don't recognize the Center Party these days. I understand the representative's need to minimize the differences here in the Chamber. We record that municipal representatives across the whole country understand the differences, and have supported the opposition that is now presenting in relation to the new CRL subject. But my first question is: doesn't the Center Party think it's a little bad that the Workers' Party lets SV decide on this matter? It's one thing that Stortinget previously put together - except SV. My second question is: if it becomes a majority in 2009, under the clear assumption that the subject is in line with human rights, will the Center Party oppose changing the subject, so that it gets a greater share of Christianity, or is it really this subject the Center Party wants in the innermost part?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e989	The centre party has never stated that we will go to the elections to change a bill that is today going to be passed here in Odelstinget. We're actually concerned that this subject is going to get calm. I don't think this subject will tolerate so many rematches. I am concerned, as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide also was, that this subject needs peace. So I'm convinced that what we're going to adopt here tonight is going to be standing for a long time to come. I think it would be sad if someone were to take a rematch about what the Christian People's Party has previously also referred to as a certain symbolism, among other things. in relation to name, etc. In fact, I have some problems seeing the enormous differences, which would require a rematch on this subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e996	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e999	I want to start with a personal story. It was not that I was originally for this subject. I thought that Norway had to have two parts. But I became convinced that we were going to have a subject that gave knowledge of Christianity and other religions in a real way, without preaching. I've had that attitude for the last ten years. I have been involved in the changes that have occurred in that subject. In fact, I have actively worked on the changes that have occurred, both to make a decoupling between the purpose paragraph and the subject, and to ensure that the right of exemption is effective. I experienced in its time that it was very important to do so, because it was necessary. With regard to the practical and good background of the subject, it is that in a country that Norway must be able to gather people with different backgrounds, so that we get to know the living Christian humanistic heritage we have and get to know different religions and views of life in a proper and proper way. To answer for myself, I don't want to polarize more than what I want to do. I would like to commend the Government for the fact that, in the consultation round, we have again been introduced in the section of the law the word 'Christianity', which is essential for the Left, that we have been reintroduced the words 'knowledge of', which is something other than 'knowledge' - that means that one has completely different dimensions in this subject - and that in the reference to Christianity as a cultural heritage one uses the form of presence, that is, it is presented as something that is living, which is active. From the left's point of view, this is positive. It is also positive that it is clearly stated that Christianity as a living cultural heritage should have the greater part of the time in the subject. Where, then, are the dividing lines relative to the left? First of all, they are fundamental to us - that we have never been able to understand why the content of Secretary of State Lisbet Rugtvedt's statement in our country on February 4th this year about ‘paying as much attention to Christianity as before’ can be implemented in practice through the curriculum and curriculum. [[...]] We never have that concept. We've expressed in our way in the setting that we ‘Considers that current practice in the quantitative emphasising of the different subjects in the subject area continues. It involves as many objectives of competence in the 2008 curriculum as in the 2005 curriculum, and will take as much time as is currently spent on Christian knowledge. ’ In fact, we can't see a single point in the judgment that hinders this understanding. This understanding means, as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said, that in order to meet others in a proper way, one must know the place of stand. That doesn't mean you're going to meet them in a way that can be perceived as offensive or demeaning - it goes on the qualitative, which the judgment is clear on. Of course, we're not going to do that. But it's not that the cultural heritage that we have came down into the parachute one day -- it's evolved in our society for a long time, and it has a living background. The fact that this cultural heritage means a lot, there's no disagreement about it. But how much does it matter? The left also believes and stresses that in this case it must be the way we have expressed it. We actually tried to express what the government parties don't want to say, not by using fractions and percent, but by using normal Norwegian principal sentences and saying the same thing, that it's going to be about half. The other relationship, which is not as important, but as, for example, those who work with the subject have underlined - because I do not understand that it is not possible to express it in normal Norwegian, even if you do not want to do it in legal Norwegian - that you should not have a situation where, for example, humanety shall be presented with Christian eyes, or that Christianity shall be presented with Islamic eyes. I don't understand why you can't say that. It must be quite clear that every religion must be able - and should - to be presented from its own point of view, and not from the point of view of others. And of course, you'll find out about the different positions in the field, and then you'll also have an opportunity to evaluate it when you get that knowledge. I have also encountered some strange argument about being afraid of experience in this subject. I myself have been present in it as in its time called bourgeois confirmations, and I can guarantee that there are experiences there. When you sing, "My mind is free," there's an experience in space. And I can't understand that any outlook on life can be presented without it being an experience. But it is when the experience can be perceived as offensive in the sense of ‘preaching’, one should not go on. It's a pedagogical challenge, but I want to say it so that it can be maintained. As far as voting is concerned, we have been invited not to vote for our own views. But of course we insist that in voting we will not vote for Section 2-4 of the Government and I have now justified why it is so. And a polite invitation from the representative of Gorm Kjernli, I have also responded from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1021	Should Odd Einar Dørum include the suggestion included on page 7 of the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1024	Thank you for this kind reminder. I got so excited about the argument-- so I'm doing it by the President's good help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1029	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1034	Yesterday, in Odelstinget, when we discussed marriage law, I think we saw the very best of the liberal left in battle for equivalency and for equal rights. In this case, I have a little problem understanding the positioning of the left hand side. I would like to ask the representative to help me understand. In the setting, the Left item is annotated by a group of oppositions, which ends with: ‘It is important to know yourself and their own cultural heritage in order to understand others. ‘... I'd like to ask the representative a little bit about those words: himself and others. I think it's a little strange that the left needs to talk about itself and others, so we and them, an old dichotomy that we've worked very hard to eliminate. Is the representative Dørum and Left agree with SV that we have a great and important job in terms of cleaning up this type of concept, and that the changes we adopt today when it comes to the CRL subject are actually part of such a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1050	The dynamics of the Left's view are the following -- and it can be explained in this way: I, who come from this country, have an inheritance with me -- others, who come from elsewhere, have an inheritance. We have that legacy with us. In that very meeting when we present it, a dynamic is created. That dynamics do something to us. I learn something about others, others learn something about me. It's not like we're all of a sudden getting the same thing, but we're learning something about each other. I've never believed in the baby song that outside we are different, but inside we're the same. I think we're different, but that just being able to live with each other around clearly central common values, like, for example. will be expressed when we discuss purpose paragraphs later, that's what the Left believes. And as far as this matter is concerned, it is so simple that we are on the programme on which we have gone to the elections both yesterday and today. In the program we've gone to, and I know very well, there's nothing to say that we're going to write down the living Christian humanist cultural heritage we have, but we're going to use it as a tool to meet people with a different background. And in that meeting, we're going to make mutual respect. That's what we're thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1057	After hearing the statement by the representative Dørum and also the clarification he gave in relation to the dividing lines between the Left's view and the Government's proposal, it strikes me that there are marginal differences between what the Left stands for, and what the Government is now presenting in its bill. I would therefore ask the representative, Mr Dørum, to explain what are the major differences that make it impossible for the Left and the Government parties to agree on a joint proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1064	I spent most of my speaking time saying that what is called quantity is pretty central. I tried to explain why it is central. So I said that I've chosen a language that makes me not eat things, but it's a real difference. And I've actually made a choice of words in the text where I avoid using sensitive percentages and fractions, but I've tried using Norwegian main sentences. The Norwegian main phrases I've used, for example. not possible for the government parties to go into, when I say you can continue with the hour distribution that is now. I believe from my honest conviction after seeing the verdict and reading it, that there is nothing in the judgment that prevents it. The second point that is really completely incomprehensible to me is why not the government parties can express that one should present different religions and views of life from their own point of view. I guess there's no one in the government parties like that. believes that human ethics should be presented on the basis of Christian judgment. I guess it's not like that. And I don't understand why it's not possible to say that. If you can't say that out of fear of a legal consequence, you can at least say it as a normal general statement. But here's where the dividing lines go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1072	First, I just want to thank the Left for being part of one of the Government's proposals, this with a name change, this with wanting a new name for the KRL subject, such as religion, life-view and ethics. The left often talks about knowledge and curriculum, and the knowledge goals of the curriculum, which are incredibly important to achieve. The change that the majority of this room is going to make today is to remove the percentage that you're saying today that the different religions are going to have. The Left Government Party does not support this. It is true that the knowledge objectives and the curriculum that you have had for the former CRL subject are fixed, i.e. that one will have more knowledge goals in Christianity than in other views of life and other religions. This is natural. Why does the Left not support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1081	Now I'm asked why we support name change. Well, that's because it's in the program I've been chosen for. Of course, as far as the knowledge of our living cultural heritage is concerned, I also have support in my party to stand on it. It's just to read the Left's wording on how we want the purpose paragraph in school. Then you'll see. Our starting point is what I said instead, that we need to know where we come from when we live in a society where all the great world religions are to meet. We have respect for that to happen. In that meeting there is a development. There shall also be a pedagogical meeting. In this context, we have respected that the government parties do not seem to be able to express anything with a fraction - they are afraid that they will then violate the judgment. We've tried to express what you can't express with a fraction, in Norwegian main sentences. I quote from the left's comment in the setting, where it says that "it will take as much time as today spent on Christian knowledge" to follow the objectives of competence. Government parties have not been able to participate in this. There is a fundamental difference, and it could be explained by the representative Lena Jensen - in a different context than this. So here we're not going to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1094	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1097	When the European Court of Human Rights presented its judgment on 29 June 2007, he was received with great attention in Norway. It's an important verdict. It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh... presented in a separate edition of particularly important judgments in the The government is decisively emphasising that Norway should have a subject in school that is consistent with and non-infringing European human rights. The KRL discipline should be a subject for dialogue - no conflict - and for respect. And a school subject to promote dialogue and respect must be in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. There can be no doubt about it. When the subject has been such that parents have gone to the stage of filing a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights, we are unfortunately a bit away from it. We're emphasising that we should have a subject where we avoid future lawsuits with a sentence to follow, so that the students and parents, schools and teachers do not have to be in doubt that the subject complies with human rights. One made minor changes to § 2-4 in 2005. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights criticised the provisions of the Training Act §2-4, which goes beyond the changes made in 2005. So we have to make changes, so there's no doubt that the law paragraph and the subject are consistent with human rights. The name KRL may give the impression that the training in Christianity is qualitatively different from the training in other religions and life views. By changing the name of RLE religion, view and ethics, a reference to the entire content of the subject and making the different parts qualitatively equal. It will be an important signal to the school, the students and the world that the subject complies with human rights. The judgment stated that compulsory training in religions should be objective, critical and pluralistic. It is proposed to include this wording in the legal text in order to underline that the subject should be based on the same entity. The government has chosen to follow the multiples in its listener and to include them in the laws of a section on the content of the subject. It shall ensure that the content of the subject is subject to qualitative and equivalent treatment. So the government emphasizes that it is going to come out of the curriculum that Christian knowledge should have the quantitatively largest part of the teaching material. This clarification underscores what Christianity has to say in Norway, historically and as a cultural heritage. The extent of the competence objective of Christianity must not be such as to give rise to qualitative differences, for which the European Court of Human Rights in paragraph 92 of the judgment criticises the 1997 curriculum. It is also explicitly criticised that about half of the subjects in the subject are about Christianity. I think the opposition should read not only the parts of the sentence that they like, but also the parts of the sentence that explicitly criticize the views they have expressed from the Greatness's pulpit here today. The European Court of Human Rights condemns us for the 1997 issue of the subject. Some of the points have not been followed that way, because changes have been made in the past. There's been changes in the exemption rules -- which have been done okay here -- that follow up parts of what the sentence represents. The changes currently being made by the Government are needed depending on the state of the subject. We've taken into account the changes that Storting's made in the past. We have also stressed that in a matter where the Norwegian Supreme Court has expressed its opinion and where the European Court of Human Rights has reached a different conclusion, we must build on our foremost legal expertise. I want to right what legal expertise the opposition is based on - except for its own opinions after reading the verdict. Please take a listener's statement or a source in a case that is strongly influenced by jus, because it is a judgment. That's election fight soon, and I notice that. I think the school will be calm about a subject that has been changed under the previous and current government because of external conditions. I also notice that there will be a rematch on the subject. And then my message will be: I think we're calm about the subject, to take care of the elephants and school. But if we take care of the election interests of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, it will be different. I want to ask that we take care of the school and the students. So I notice that the three opposition parties are opening up to a major change in the measure of competence. It will mean a greater change in the subject than it would be to go back to the subject as it is today. I thought it was worth noting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1136	The Council of State could help to calm down the subject if the government parties had been willing to go a little way towards what the opposition believes it is important to achieve. But as the Council of State says, this isn't about politics, it's just about jus. He confirmed Lena Jensen's reality description in many ways. She said here today stubbornly, repeatedly, that Norway has a subject for which we are condemned. That's obviously wrong. The subject for which we were convicted was the KRL subject anno 1997. Then I register that the Council of State is using the opportunity to shake my head. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State directly: Is there a judgment against Norway in the CRL case in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1146	There is a 1997 survey of the subject, as I said in my post. Some of that sentence goes on a point that is followed up and changed in retrospect. Other parts don't make it completely public, for example. point 92 of the judgment, concerning the quantity in the trade. It is therefore necessary to amend it. In the newsletter and in all the legal environments we've been using, there's a sign up. So I'll take the opportunity to say that we, as it has come out here, have had conversations about the changes. First of all, I would say that there were nice conversations, and those were constructive conversations. I'm very sorry that we weren't there. I think that in many ways we should have a good basis for becoming a few, not least because we need to calm down on the subject. But for the Government, it is absolutely necessary that we have a subject that is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1153	I think there must be an obvious confusion about what the verdict says, because the council is very concerned about referring to section-- or section--92 of the verdict. We can do that. First, the Council of State says in its statement that there is no change in the number of objectives of competence. It's solid. What the Council of State refers to in section 92 of the judgment is that the court refers to the curriculum reflecting that about half of the themes listed in the curriculum, i.e. half of the objectives of competence, refer to Christianity. That's what the sentence says. If that's the problem, the government's proposal does not solve the problem in relation to the verdict, because there is no change in the objectives of competence. And then the really question is, what is it necessary to change in relation to the judgment that has not already changed today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1162	Today, we are in the special situation that competence goals in all schools control what students should learn, and in the KRL field of knowledge, it's the same way. Then we have a special arrangement that says 55 pst. teaching should be in Christianity, i.e. it is not referred to competence objectives in the judgment, but it is referred to that about half of the subjects that are Christian knowledge are a large part, and that it underlines the difference in the focus between religions. There is a specific point in the judgment. On the other hand, one at the same time says earlier in the judgment that we can have a greater quantitative emphasis on Christianity than on other religions because of our history. It's just that the government is following up. The quantitatively largest part of the subject will be Christian knowledge, but we're removing the percentage that says today that 55 pst. It's supposed to be. And we do what we do in second grade: we stick to the skills goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1171	This is at least not the way to clarify what the sentence says. On the one hand, the Council of State says that quantity is equal to quality -- that's what he said in his post -- after the judgment. Then he says that after the judgment you are allowed to have quantitative foreordination, but that it is not half, but perhaps one third or the goals of competence to govern. My questions are: Does the name have to be changed after the judgment? Will a subject with a quantitative distribution of Christianity, about half, conflict with judgment? And: What is in the subject of 2008 that is contrary to the judgment we have received?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1184	The government has done a lot of good for this. We have to change the percentage distribution that is in conflict with the judgment, but we can continue to have the situation we are in today's school, that there are several objectives of competence for the Christian profession, that is, that most of the subjects in the subject are about Christianity, because of our history and tradition. So the health of the subject, as it appears today, even after something -- the special exemption rules -- has changed, we are forced to change it so that it will be in accordance with human rights. There are legal paragraphs 2 to 4, the need to shift skills goals, and the name that is among the most important changes there. Because people in Norway have to feel confident that the subject of promoting respect, dialogue and understanding across different aspects of life is in line with human rights, we have to make changes that guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1191	The councils want peace, and I give him right in that he has made many attempts to get to it. Now he's going to get a chance to do it, and I'm not going to be polemic in any way. One of our greatest Christian educational environments - what in its time was called IKO - have responded publicly to the bill that has come, because you cannot express in normal Norwegian or in any other way what the Left has mentioned in its proposal, that you should present different beliefs, different views of life and different religions according to their own nature. If one abandons the legal form of peculiarity, does the Council of State believe that Christianity, Islam, should be presented on the basis of its own stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1198	I mean that all religions should be presented respectfully, so that it gives insight. And I have to say that I perceive it so that the factual basis for SV, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left would not be able to become a few about a common law clause and a common understanding of this subject, is not really present. When reading the programme to the left against this proposal, it is my opinion that there are other reasons than factual ones when it comes to content, which means that we have not become a few. I also have to regret that, and we all share the responsibility that has been done this way. When the dust after the 2009 election campaign and the discussions that are good for us now lie down, I hope it will be possible to renegotiate a broad deal on a subject that secures the different religions and life's views, and that may ensure greater tranquillity than we've had in the last ten years. I think we're dividing an exposure to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1205	Unlike SV, I'm proud to live in a state of law. I have no fear of that reason. I'm proud that we practise the principle of power-sharing, that we have a legislative assembly, a executive power and a judge-- I repeat: a judge-- power. My question to the Council of State: What legal competence does the Council of State rely on, when he claims that the CRL we have had since 2001, than in 2005, actually violates human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1212	The background for this is a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights - we are condemned for the 1997 edition of the subject, where one thing at a certain point holds out - the Christian part of the subject that one think is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Some of the points have been changed, especially in the exemption rules, others have not. We've got advice from the top expert in the government. But we have also sent this on an extensive hearing, where hearing aids have spoken, e.g. Institute of Human Rights. The answers are very clear: we are forced to make some changes to bring this into line with the domain that has fallen. The government's intention has been to bring the subject into line with human rights. My perception is that when that's the question, we have to put decisive emphasis on the legal advice we get. We are politicians who ultimately take a position on the question, but we have to put decisive emphasis on the advice we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1221	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1224	On 29 June 2007, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Norway has infringed fundamental human rights. We're going to take it seriously when we get such a verdict. Today, when we look at proposals for changes to the training law for the CRL subject, there is a natural follow-up to the judgment, and it is emphasised in the proposition that there should be no doubt that the subject complies with human rights. The changes are also in line with the detailed advice of our leading legal experts in this area, which the Council of State has made thoroughly clear now in the exchange of views. Norway in 2008 is a multicultural society, with all religions demanding the same respect. Therefore, it is important that the school provides knowledge of religions and views of life in an objective way, with equivalent treatment of these. Critical voices claim that the Government is now tying down our cultural heritage. It is with respect to report wrong. On the contrary, we want to make the subject an inclusive subject, where no one is discriminated against in the name of human rights. The Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party fear that the knowledge of the Christian cultural heritage and thus the basic understanding of society will be confused over some generations. Of course, our intention is not to deprive future generations of knowledge of the Christian cultural heritage. The place of Christianity in the current CRL subject is ensured in the new RLE subject. In addition, the Christian cultural heritage is actually woven into history, literature, art and philosophy. Students do learn so much about the Christian cultural heritage in other subjects, especially in Norwegian and history - but also in social sciences, linguistics and even in natural sciences. After all, it is these subjects that treat the Christian cultural heritage in a historical light. For how can you read Alexander Kielland, without getting into the Haugians? How can students read Arne Garborg, without talking about Christian tradition set up against secular modernity? Students who read Arnulf Upperland quickly realize that Tore Renberg is not the first to view Christianity as a country plague. I could give much more examples. The point is to show that the role that Christianity has played in shaping our society is something that students get good and critical knowledge of in most subjects. It is therefore with some wonder that we record the enormous mobilization that the Christian People's Party in particular has now had against this matter. It is also surprising that the opposition is trying to make the distance between the lots larger than it is, and does not want to enter into a broad settlement. The Christian People's Party calls the amendment a new temporary RLE subject, and at the same time it signals that this will be an important election matter in 2009. The Progress Party has also spoken about this. Then I wonder, Who is making trouble? The party of progress also claims that we are neutral in value and do not dare to take a stand on values. It's also wrong. It is precisely values such as equivalency, tolerance and respect for fundamental human rights that underlie our view, together with Christian and humanistic cultural heritage and tradition. Christian knowledge has been a compulsory subject since the school began in 1739. Then it was part of the Church's baptismal training. Society and school have undergone major changes since then. I am therefore pleased with the changes that are in the position today, and pleased that we, as a multicultural society, equate the different religions and views of life, while actually taking care of the place of Christianity in the Norwegian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1237	CRL - Christianity, religious and life - was introduced as a subject in primary and secondary school ten years ago under the Danish Council of State. An almost 250-year history of religious Christianity education and an almost 25-year history of alternative life-vision education for those who were exempted from Christian knowledge were replaced by the subject of CRL. Christianity had existed since the start of the Norwegian primary school and was defined as baptismal education within the state church, and there was little or no place for thought other than Lutheran and pontopidian. The CRL subject was to embrace more widely and give the students knowledge of other religions within Christianity and of non-Christian religions and views of life. I think it is a little special that we are now going to deal with this matter about the CRL subject at school, while the matter of the school's purpose paragraph has been postponed to the autumn because the government parties need more time. They need more time, either to correct their position in relation to what they've gone through in the past, or they need more time to try to get one or more of the opposition parties to change their vision. For me and for the Progress Party, the CRL subject and the purpose paragraph are closely linked. The interpretation of the purpose paragraph has been important for understanding the CRL subject. Cooperation between school and home is also an element of this case, as the Human Rights Court points out that parents must have sufficient knowledge of the content of training in order to apply for exemption from training in the CRL field. The government refers to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights as a background for a proposal on the table to amend the Training Act so that the KRL subject is transformed into a religious, life-view and ethics subject. One important point is that the Government goes much further in its amendments than the Strasbourg judgment provides. One important element in this is that Norwegian law and curriculum have already been changed in line with the judgment. What the government is actually doing now is going further in the direction of toneing down the natural place of Christianity in Norwegian school. There is a cross-political consensus here that there is knowledge to have the main focus in Norwegian school. For this reason, it is also stated in the form of law that teaching in the CRL subject should not be a preaching activity. The course shall be an open school course in line with the other subjects. It should be able to gather all students, but it should also be possible to open up to allow those who want an exemption to get it. It is knowledge of different religions, life views, ethics and humanistic values that must be the focus of teaching. Just because of the fact that there is no service or exercise, it is not a matter of highlighting one religion qualitatively in relation to another. But even the European Court of Human Rights says that it would be natural to give Christianity a quantitative precedence from the history and tradition of Norway. It is thus legitimate, according to the Court, that Christianity is given a greater place in teaching than other religions and views of life. Until now, it has to give an understanding of evangelical Lutheran Christianity and knowledge of different Christian denominations made up of 55 pst. of the objectives of competence in the CRL subject. The government parties will remove this percentage, but the Progress Party believes it is essential that the speciality of Christianity in Norwegian cultural heritage indicates that precisely Christianity must be the main emphasis when it comes to emphasising the extent of the various religions in a religious teaching. I have noticed that SV's educational spokeswoman, Lena Jensen, on the party's websites, says that she is very pleased that the emphasis on Christianity is now going away. It may not be so conspicuous from a party that started its time in government by wanting to remove table beans. Then the Christian purpose paragraph was reviewed. Yesterday they congratulated each other on having wiped out the nuclear family, and now they will eliminate the emphasis on Christianity in religious education. A question is, what's next? How much more can the red-greens get torn down before the people get an opportunity to throw them out of government offices in 2009? For several years, international reports have identified Norway as one of the world’s best countries to live in. Now we have rightly been turned off by Iceland, but I will venture to the assertion that Norway had never experienced such a status unless it was precisely because of our Christian cultural heritage. Had not Christianity been introduced here in the country, we might still have flown around and clubbed each other in the heels or thrown stones at each other. We had not emerged as a nation-wide nation, and there had certainly not been any basis for our ancestors to adopt a Norwegian constitution that made provision for freedom of expression, freedom of religion and legal certainty. The Christian cultural-historical heritage has laid a foundation for our development of a democratic, free and well-functioning society. Why is it so important for today's government to tear down stones for stone by something that has been so successful, and that has been built up through a thousand-year history? To me, it seems that the red-green government uses its majority to realize the vision of the Workers' Party Vice President Edvard Bull expressed in the 1920s. Among other things, he said:We're going to make school secular. We're going to fight irreconcilably with the existing official Lutheranism as with other stupid sects. We're going to have an ongoing and ruthless church policy, because we believe that religion in itself is a private matter. We're going to create a socialist school by taking power and using it ruthlessly. The standard solution we now see, along with the dismantling of the defence, immediately makes me think about what the committee heard that led to the fall of the Roman Empire. We have a framework for human rights. The opposition has found a way to the CRL subject that meets the demands of the court, while at the same time taking care of and seeing our common Christian heritage, of which we are proud. I wish our proposal could be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1263	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1266	The Christian People's Party is concerned that knowledge of the Christian basis of values and culture should not be lost. Therefore, knowledge of Christianity must have a good place in the school, not in the form of preaching, but in the dissemination of engaging knowledge. Students need to know what has shaped our society over a thousand years. Soon three years with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have seen clear traces. The discussion on the prohibition of prayer, the removal of the Christian point of purpose in the school and kindergarten, the removal of the CRL subject, the problematisation of religious services and the marking of Christian celebrations in the school show a new course in value issues that we have never seen before in Norwegian politics. From being a niche point of view of a single party, this has been a Soria Moria vision for a government. It almost seems as if SV gradually takes care of everything that smells of the Christian's blood. This is by no means surprising when we look at SV's history. What's surprising is that the Center Party supports all of this. The central party has traditionally cooperated with us to fight for the Christian fundamental values. We had hoped that the Center Party would function as a counterweight to the SV of the Government. It has not happened. It is sad that the Center Party is now supporting this weakening of the Christian cultural heritage. Major changes are not required in the KRL discipline. The curriculum has been revised most recently in 2005, not least to ensure human rights. The European Court of Human Rights does not require a change in the name of the subject, and he states that a major emphasis on Christian knowledge must be accepted in the light of the place that Christianity has in the national history and tradition of our country. In our time, it is more important than ever to be able to gather all the elephants in a common subject that provides knowledge, a common cultural reference base, which contributes to respect for different aspects of life, and which also imparts the necessary knowledge of our Christian and humanistic heritage. The CRL in the school is crucial to get this done. 80 pst. of the municipalities that have expressed their opinion on the Government's proposal, according to our Land are dissenting in the Government's proposal. This shows a government that is in line with SV, but is in disrepute with the people. I can confirm that in 2009 the Christian People's Party will go to the elections to build up the dissemination of the Christian cultural heritage in the school!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1283	I must say that I am very disappointed with the Christian People’s Party’s position on this matter. From one day on, the Christian People's Party has believed that the subject was not a human rights issue. We were convicted in EMD. I had then hoped and expected a certain humility from the Christian People's Party, but instead the party declared war. I am very pleased that the Government has promoted the proposal Odelstinget will adopt today. With this we will end a long, bad and most unnecessary chapter in modern Norway history. I remember that when Christian knowledge with religious and life - oriented orientation was introduced in 1997, all religious minorities and life - vision minorities protested. Today, when we open a new and more pleasant chapter, I won't be very scratchy. I will not claim that the majority, knowingly and willfully, wanted to hurt the minorities, even though after today's debate I have a bad taste in my mouth. I have to say that the minorities felt that their pain was effective and arrogantly overheard and rejected. Since 1997, an increasing majority in the United Kingdom and in governments has considered that the minorities overreacted and that the subject was within the State's right to impose mandatory education on them. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights had to respond, and that is when things happen. That shouldn't be necessary. The majority must be generous and inclusive. Minorities shall not be hairy, but fundamental rights are not negotiable. I am proud that only SV has had a clear and clear position on the matter. If you had listened to SV, you would have put this battle behind you for the longest time. We had escaped criticism of violations of human rights. It is imperative for me to stress that the minorities are not interested in dechristening Norway or denying that Christianity has had a decisive impact on the Norwegian Christian heritage. They respect that. I had the pleasure of sitting in the Housing Committee, which worked out a new purpose paragraph for kindergarten, elementary school and the rest of the school run. The minorities showed maturity and respect for their cultural heritage. They were only interested in being allowed to participate in shaping our common future. That is a legitimate requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1299	What is agreed in this room is that everyone should have knowledge of different religions and views of life. There is also a consensus that the Christian cultural heritage should have a strong place. The disagreement applies: how strong should that place be? If that's what's going on, the debate will turn. So that's one point of disagreement I don't understand, and that's why I went to the pulpit. It's that you can't define pedagogical methods with legal techniques. So, if for some legal reason you are afraid to use the word ‘genuine’, because someone is going to experience the word as something qualitative, you have to be able to say in pedagogical Norwegian to those who are going to teach in a schoolroom, that of course you should not present Islam through, for example. Fundamentalist Christian eyes - no more than one should present Christianity, for example. through extreme Muslim eyes. This must be absolutely fundamental: when presenting human ethics, Christianity, Islam or Judaism, it must be pedagogically based on what the source writings and the documents available tell us. If this is to be contrary to some court of law, I must say that it is quite strange if the courts are to comment on pedagogical working principles. I refuse to believe that. I can, of course, imagine that if you take the juxtaposition completely-- take what we can call the thinking of the lawyers completely-- it becomes a quite demanding world. It is not easy to understand which rules we should then follow. I feel that the Council of State is terrified of taking something that can be interpreted as qualitatively offensive. I respect that. I don't want to provoke it, but from this pulpit I take it for granted that you shouldn't have a caricature situation, where some faith or some vision of life is to be presented through the eyes of others. It is also true, of course, that knowledge of different religions and views of life will tell us that there is debate about them. It's actually part of the knowledge. You cannot initially – when presenting Christianity or other religions and views of life – present it from any point of view other than what you have. How in the world should you do it pedagogically? To do that pluralistic means to tell you that there are multiple answers - so more religions have different answers to the eternal questions. That's what we're going to do. It would be a schooled pedagogue because it is simply a pedagogical job to answer it. This is how the answer is given there, and so the answer is given there. It's a pedagogical problem that has to be solved. It will be difficult for me to experience that I cannot get an answer from the Storting Chair to the question of whether to present something from its point of view. This is not an attempt to lure anyone into a trap to stumble into jus, but it is to establish some simple, pedagogical principles. It was also an attempt to conduct a dialogue in the lines instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1314	Election Strategy for the Christian People's Party: It's with respect to report flat, and it's historyless from a government council and from a party that's never tried to get to a gathering profession - like the subject we have in school today. It's a party like the Christian People's Party, which was one of the keys to the subject we were able to reassemble the students in the Norwegian school in 1997, to sit together - in respect and dialogue, with different backgrounds - and discuss faith. It is a party that has wanted to cooperate on this matter from the beginning, after the judgment was given. It's a party that has asked for conversations to see if we can agree on something that will bring peace and a broad majority for the profession. The reason why the Christian People's Party has needed to say that this is something we want to raise in the election and see if we get a new majority after 2009, is just to make it easy for all the 80 psts. of the troubled municipalities wishing to make changes other than those proposed by the Government. We want to create a profession that allows you to wait for a two-part course in Norwegian school, because we have not given up the struggle to get a common course. We want to say to parents: you can wait to send your children to private schools to make sure they get a job that you want. In 2009, we want to do the job that the Government has not completed, namely to get a profession in line with human rights, but which is collective and has a much broader majority. I want to remind the SV politician Chaudhry that in the two evaluations we had of the subject, the minorities were satisfied with the CRL subject we had, because their culture and their religion were moved into the Norwegian school, and they met with respect, dialogue and diversity. I listen to what the SV politician Chaudhry says here, that you never wanted the subject, but I also listened to what the minorities said about the evaluation. President, I see that time is running out so fast that I wait with my summary, and report to a new three-minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1325	It'll allow the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1328	I think we have to be so honest as to admit that calm and a broad majority in the staging room are unfortunately not always the same as the tranquillity of a subject among the elephants and parents. The situation with regard to the CRL subject has been that we have had groups of parents who have first gone to a United Nations committee and then to the EMD. It has therefore been our case of the subject, discussions and considerable unrest and several rounds with minor changes under previous governments and now under the red-green government. So the need for calm that leads to those who have children in the school can accept the subject and end up about it, is great. There have been conversations with a view to what did not happen. I have to say, I'm sorry, because it would have been a very great advantage. So I just want to point out that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party write in their comments, is not that we're going back to the subject as it is today, because they write the following: «In particular, the assumption that knowledge of Christianity should be about half the teaching time in the subject must be reflected. In view of this, it would also be natural to review and expand the objectives of competence in this main field. ‘... This is, of course, an indication that one would rather have a curriculum revision, one would go through the objectives of competence and increase the Christian dimension there. It's worth noting that what we're facing then, if we're going to understand the comments from the three parties, is not that the name should be changed, and that a percentage should be reintroduced as today, but that the measure of competence in the Christian field should be increased, that is, a change in the curriculum and therefore of how the subject is put together. There is something different than the subject we have today. But it was actually to comment on the post to the representative Doorum I took the floor. His analysis of how one should understand different religions, we have talked so much about in company with others and alone, that he knows that we look very much like it. I therefore believe that we must be so honest with each other and say that we both know, both the representative Dørum and I, that it is not on the basis that we are not some and are not going to vote equally here today. It wouldn't be hard to find a solution. The left and the representative of Dørum are very hard on saying clearly that the quantity must be as it is today. As I said earlier, I think point 92 of the judgment says that we can't have the half that is expressed in the curriculum today, but we have to follow the measure of competence. If the representative of Dørum has a slightly different view of it, I don't think it would be a problem to be able to deal with the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1342	During the debate we have not received an answer as to whether the Government is satisfied with and it seems good to get a subject that is only behind the government parties. A headline for all the parties in this Chamber through the debate has been that everyone wants a subject in line with human rights, and they have made changes to their paragraphs in order for it to be in line with them. But in terms of name and quantity, representatives from the Government here in the Chamber argue that the name is a symbolic matter, and that it's not because of the judgment that you have to change it. You quote the College of Bishops, who also said that this is a symbolic matter and not the most important thing, and then you forget to say that the College of Bishops said that in terms of the content of the subject and the quantity of the subject, there is something else. As far as percentages are concerned, it is argued that there is only a percentage in the CRL, and it is not based on competence objectives - therefore the opposition's comment that if that is the problem, we have to adjust the objectives of competence in line with that teaching. Getting a profession where you are absolutely sure to prevent process risks and are not in doubt is the word the council has used. Lawyers are nice people. We have two nice lawyers in our committee, and everyone is satisfied with them. But we ask lawyers to be sloppy, then we get a subject that is within the framework of what the human rights say, but it will also be within the passepartout. That means you have more to go on than when a lawyer will be absolutely sure. I know that in school today there are a lot of CRL teachers who have done a great job communicating a subject in a qualitatively good way, where you have treated religions with respect. They had deserved the Stortinget today had managed to gather on a subject of respect and dialogue, where they recognized our nation's heritage and identity, but had the inclusion of new religions and expressions that are currently valid in school, and that were not there before. We in the opposition also think there are many other good paragraphs in the Training Act. That's why we're not going to vote against the law in its entirety and the title of the law, but I think it's quite clear from this debate what it is in this law that the opposition does not accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1357	I hear you're trying to get the debate to go around the jug. I had hoped that the debate would revolve around politics and social development. The task of politicians is to see the realities, the changing and changing new realities, and to make policies based on them. We live in a new society. We live with new realities that require courage, and that require a different kind of policy today than what we had maybe ten years ago. From day one -- I repeat what I said in my first post -- the minorities have said that this is not an inclusive subject. All minorities, both religious minorities and life-vision minorities, at least the important tone-setting minorities, have said so. Firstly, I would say that both the SV and the minorities have said that they want an inclusive profession. Then it may be that I remember so badly that I cannot agree with Eriksen’s representative that all minorities thought this was a good subject. I don't remember. At best, Dagrun Eriksen's statement is to stretch reality very far; at worst, it's history falsification. It is in any case important to see the realities of the day. We have to say once again that we have to be inclusive and be bright. My understanding is not that the minorities are looking to dechristen Norway or deny the country’s cultural heritage. They are only out to participate in shaping the future, which is common to Christians, other new religions, and life - vision groups. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1368	There have been many interesting articles in this debate. What we see in the debate, which is interesting, is that the SV and the Central Party obviously do not agree on what is required in the judgment. While the representative, Lena Jensen, with a great deal of weight, believes that a change is required both of the name and of the quantity in the subject, contrary to the representative, Rune J. Schylaaen of the Central Party believes that the Court does not attack the quantitative primacy of Christianity. So you can wonder how the government has come up with its position. The opposition batches have tried several times to get answers to very simple questions in the line changes. Two of the questions have been simple. One has been as simple as this: Where in the judgment does it say that a name change is required to bring the subject into line with human rights? The second question, where does it say that a change in the quantity, i.e. about half of the subject used for Christianity, is required to bring the subject into line with human rights? None of us in the opposition have received answers to any of these questions, which should be very simple to answer since they are clearly the basis of what the Government decides today. I think the representative of Gorm Kjernli was the one who was most liberating and honest. He said what it was in his first post: ‘The changes would be in place independent of the judgment’. We're just at the nucleus here. Whatever the verdict, the ruling parties want to weaken the Christian and humanistic heritage and the foundation of the KRL subject, precisely because you can ignore the judgment and what the sentence says when you create a new subject. That's what the Workers' Party's representative says, and that's what obviously got through to the Government. Thus, when you read both the Norwegian and the English versions of the judgment, you can see that the points that the court refers to as critical in Norway are points that have changed. It's about the connection between the KRL subject and the Christian purpose paragraph. This is about the exemption, which was not previously of such a nature that it kept notifying the exemption, but one had to apply for an exemption. All these things have changed in 2002 and 2005. The subject we are discussing today has little to do with the subject that has been condemned by the EMD. It should also be brave enough for the representatives of the government parties to admit. Then we might like to have a discussion if we should change the subject completely independently of the judgment, which the representative Gorm Kjernli had in his opening speech. There is an entirely right debate, but do not cover the debate behind an attempt to say that the court requires a change in name, and the court requires a change in quantity, because it does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1379	The opposition situation can at times be frustrating, especially when it is not possible to get any clear answers from the position on very clear questions. We have now tried to find answers to the questions raised by the representative, Eriksen Soreide, both in reply exchanges and in several articles earlier today. Obviously, we don't get it. Then it's funny, and maybe a little liberating too, when the representative Chaudhry goes up to the pulpit and says that this debate is all about jus. It should have been about politics. Yes, I basically agree with that. But it's the government parts that make this a discussion of jus. It is the government parties that have the sole argument for these changes that it is required after a judgment. Therefore, the discussion focuses on jus. It's not because the opposition thinks it should. On the contrary, the opposition believes that this is politics, and it would be a much, much better debate if the government parties were honest from this pulpit and said what they actually thought, that these changes are not required because of the judgment against Norway in the EMD, but that the government parties believe that the bill they are now promoting will improve the subject. Then we could have a political discussion about the content of the subject, and whether it will actually make the subject better or not. But it's the government parties that use the law here as a plough for their policy. And it is also quite remarkable to hear the Council of State stand and say that we must be absolutely sure not to be re-judged in the EMD. He gives almost a guarantee that if you adopt the Government's proposal, no action will even be brought against Norway. At the same time, we are dealing with another matter in this house at the moment about the Information Society's fund, where there is strong legal disagreement as to whether the Government's proposal is within or outside the Constitution. Then the government parties are not concerned with law at all, as it is about politics. It's a strange political world!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1386	Now I got a direct challenge, I got a direct comment here. But first I would like to say that the description given by the representative Gåsvatn in his statement about how the situation could have been in Norway if one had not received the Christianization of Norway is an attempt at counter-factual history that at best makes us draw on the smileband. If it was meant to be serious, it becomes more visual. If I'm going to lay down on the level of the representative of Gåsvatn, I can only remind him in what way and by what methods Norway became a Christian. There was definitely no Sunday school - nor the crusades or witchfires. But I'm going to leave that mike. These changes are made on the basis of the EMD judgment. I also made that clear in my first post. In this way, my personal view coincides with the judgment of the EMD. The judgment of the EMD, among other things, points out, and which is general, that the overall framework around the subject is unclear. Overall, the judgment points out that it is unclear how to achieve the goal of a comprehensive school subject for respect, dialogue and tolerance, as the framework of the subject is. For the government parties - with the support of legal expertise - that means that we need to make the changes that we are now making, as well as the changes that have already been made. We are responsible for the changes we are proposing. The opposition thinks we're going too far, and it's based on its own interpretation of the verdict. We conduct policies in this room, but in the case of a case as serious as a binding judgment, we also choose to support what legal expertise says.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1398	The law is that, as Anundsen said, the government parties have gone up. I think it would have been a lot better if you had called a spade for a spade and called them misleading changes for misleading changes. I think I'd created a clearer debate, but that's not what we're recording. We also recorded that the First Commentary of the Public Prosecutor when the judgment came was that we had already made many changes to the law, and that it was the law after 1997 that was passed on. But the main reason I asked for the word was because I was accused of history falsification. I think I can nuance what I said by saying that I believe the Human-Ethical Association was never for the subject, has never been satisfied with the subject. That's exactly why they brought the case first to the Norwegian court, where they lost, and then to the Human Rights Court, where they got their support. But the government parties at the time - where the Christian People's Party was involved - listened to those challenges. We changed the name, which at the time was Christianity, religion and life philosophy, which could give a qualitative favor to Christianity. We made changes to the exemption, which meant that you should not tell us why you wanted a waiver when you had to report it. We listened to it. But I have to ask the representative to go and read the evaluations of the subject that were made in his time, where other minorities were clear that for the first time their background had been moved into a common subject in school, and that it was known as a recognition, and it was known as having a subject of respect and dialogue. I think there is someone who will not be satisfied until the subject is gone. I do not believe in non-slip lawyers who may have been told that you should be absolutely sure - who were the words of the representative Lena Jensen used about how this subject was to be interpreted with jusic eyes. I don't think we'll get a subject that gives it the combination of respect, inclusion and dialogue and clarity of what our nation has been and has been formed from. We don't want to go into the campaign with this as a war theme. We've tried from the opposition to give a handshake to get a common subject, but we can't erase the K of the CRL to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1418	The President will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1480	The President will first vote on paragraph 28 under I, which the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against. The remainder of the Committee's position shall then be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1498	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1508	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1518	During the debate, Ms Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left, put forward the proposal included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1584	For § 12a there is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal sounds. ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 64 on kindergartens New Section 12a shall be replaced by the following: § 12a Right to sit in kindergarten Children are entitled to kindergarten from 1 year of age. [[child care law]] In order to be safe, applications for nursery facilities must be made no later than four months before the place is to be used. The municipality is obliged to provide such space by the end of this period. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1609	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1619	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1629	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Odd Einar Door on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1660	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1720	There are two different proposals here. The President will first vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1747	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1791	The proposal for decision § 2-4 is then put to the vote. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will go against the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1820	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1830	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-12-lower.ana.ud1075e1842	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
