ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e22	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Britt Hildeng, Gunvald Ludvigsen and Sonja Irene Sjøli on leave from 10 November to 17 November, and from the representative of Rune J. Skjölaen on leave from 10 November to 15 November, all to take part in the appointed Grand Delegation to Tibet and China from the representatives of Erling Sande and Bjørg Tørsdal on leave from 10 November to 14 November, and from Bent Höie on leave from 12 November to 14 November, all to take part in the appointed Grand Delegation on official visits to Germany from the representative Jan Petersen on leave from 13 November to 19 November to take part in the autumn session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Valencia, Spain These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Sogn and Fjordane County, Knut Magnus Olsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Erling Sande's leave from 10 November to 14 November, due to foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Cathrin Bretzeg and Sylvia GrahamFor Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Hordaland County: Sigrid Brattabø HandegardFor More and Romesdal County: Modulf ExtraanFor Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Khalid MahmoodFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling and Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Laila Milkevoll and Bjørg Mikalsen
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e122	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e125	On behalf of Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to develop my own reception in the field of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e130	The representative Ib Thomsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e133	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I propose to prevent state discrimination and distortions of competition between local shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e138	The representative, Mr Giltun, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e141	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on the right of establishment and the removal of the arrangement with agreements for physiotherapists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e146	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e150	On behalf of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Per Sandberg and myself I would like to suggest that as soon as possible start planning, designing and building a new bridge on Rv. 80 between Løding and Vikan and submit proposals for state funding in the context of the 2009 revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e155	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e181	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – Minister for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, – Magnhild City Council, Kleppa – Government Council Board Vegar Solhjell The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e196	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think it's right and fair that in a day like this, questions are raised in the Great Britain about the American presidential election. Tonight, there's a story written. For the first time, an American president with African-American background is ready to take the White House. It's an event that gives hope to large groups of Americans, but also to peoples all over the world. The new American president is facing major challenges at home. He will fulfill promises to resolve the consequences of a major financial crisis. He will fulfill important promises to create accessible healthcare for all Americans, not least for the many tens of millions who stand without. But the hope of a new role in world policy too is great, and the question we should be asking is how the US presidential election can affect the possibilities of combating the greatest ethical challenges of our time, namely extreme poverty and extreme weather. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs goes along these lines. How does the Norwegian Government intend to work with the new US administration to raise these major issues of international policy to a better track than they have been under the current US administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e209	To save time, I will join the representative of the Høybräten's talk of the night's event – it's historical in many ways. Everyone who is involved in politics around the world has followed the American campaign. Tonight we got the result, and that's a historical result. What's very important is Obama's communication about hope -- not divisive rhetoric, but collapsing rhetoric, and an inspirational speech that extends across the political dividing lines. I think it's a lot to learn from it, and it's also crucial for the problems he's now facing. Then I agree with the representative, Højbrätten, that the questions he is pointing to are a big question of our time. It's my opinion that these questions are not being solved, you're not getting any progress here if the United States is not part of the solution – they can't be part of the problem. Then we must warn against believing that this election overnight will change American policy and course. Obama himself in his speech last night was concerned that it had to be chosen step by step, step by step — not one year, perhaps not one period, but longer. There are some big, complicated processes we're going to go into. Norway has tried to keep in touch with the two campaigns throughout these months. We have a good network in front of them, and we come from the first moment to use the chances we have, in another pretty close stream of people who want to get the new leadership into speech. We are among them, and we want to do so in those areas where Norway too has something to contribute. We must have the United States in the process towards Copenhagen. Both McCain and Obama were busy making a new uplift in the climate field. They must be held responsible for this in a positive way. In the fight against poverty, we must have the United States – it is linked to the climate, and it is linked to the solution of the financial crisis. So I can assure you that for Norway, the United States is our most important ally. We will develop the contact network with the new administration from day one, based on what Norway can contribute, and where Norway can cooperate, continue and deepen, with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e224	After all, the newly elected President of the United States has placed great emphasis on active diplomacy and international cooperation and international law in his foreign policy line. On the one hand, it is very important and provides a basis for hope, but it has also highlighted a new policy in relation to Iraq and in relation to Afghanistan, which may also affect European countries and European contributions to international operations. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs expect that the new elections in the United States will have consequences and challenges for Norwegian involvement in the solution of these important international tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e231	I think we're going to see a more influential United States, because we're now going to be impressed by what really inspires us with the United States -- the creative force, the whole breadth of what the United States stands for, the power of the example, and not just the military power, although military power is also important, not least to us as allies through NATO. Norway will actively engage in dialogue with the United States in these two areas mentioned by the representative. We have called for a greater degree of willingness to share tasks and engage allies from the United States. If and when that will comes – and it is likely – we cannot turn our backs on it. We also need to be open to contribute. It's about contributions along a very wide scale. Afghanistan is priority number for us. One of the two areas mentioned by the representative, for which we are committed. And it's now a very important refocusing time and time again among contributors. There the new president will come into the middle of a process where Norway is very well protected to contribute, and we will use this opportunity from the first day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e238	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e241	We will all join in the congratulations to Barack Obama. It is clear that in some areas he has been very clear about wanting to change, especially American foreign policy. This may be the case primarily with the issue of international free trade, where, throughout the electoral campaign, Obama has been clearly on a more protective line, despite the fact that there are negotiations on a broad international free trade agreement which will be important not least for the Third World's ability to escape deep poverty. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the possibility of setting up a broad free trade agreement that allows for the poor countries, with the relatively gloomy signals of more protectionism from the newly elected President of the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e250	I would like to emphasise the strong emphasis of the newly elected President on multilateral cooperation, international law, binding agreements and a focus on the impact that the United States can have on world development through active participation in those bodies. That an American president in times of crisis must be listening and in dialogue with people who are concerned about jobs resulting from international competition is natural. Both candidates have been. We also recognize it from our own political environment. But I actually expect the United States to be a positive and creative force even in the continuation of WTO work. We notice that this work has been going on throughout the harvest at expert level. It's going to go all December up against the new American administration, and I think we're going to be able to get into good action with that administration in this area as well. For the United States, there is so much more to lose than the challenges we're all going to face with a new agreement that will be particularly beneficial to poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e258	Follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e261	This is the time for speculation about what's going on in the United States, and what changes had to occur. I think we're all satisfied that the election campaign is over. It has been strenuous for many of us who have been interested in this. But there's also a lot of tension about what's going on. What's interesting to see is that even the Democrats in the Obama camp in American politics have incredibly strong expectations of how to meet a new president. They have an understanding that they're going to get a stronger position in the world view, because the problem has been Bush, not some American positions. Similarly, we have great expectations of meeting a new president who will give us new answers and greater participation. Then, in many ways, one main challenge comes back on the agenda, and that is reform of the UN. Because the UN is leading the world order, which is the government's mantra in many contexts, is one of the problems at the moment that the United Nations does not lead, and the United States has filled a vacuum in leadership perhaps in the wrong way – there is the challenge. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e268	I agree with the description given by the representative of Solberg. I'm glad she's happy with the result of the night. I believe that the influence of the United States in the world organisations will increase by making these organisations more representative, that they are catching up with new countries that are now central to the international economy and politics, but which may not have been the case when these institutions were created. So that reform, inclusion and wider participation may give the United States and other Western countries relatively less influence, but actually increase influence, because the organs become more important. At least I read about the new president's rhetoric about this, that it's drawing in that direction, that's a broad commitment. This is the strength of the United States: engagement policy – towards allies, towards opponents and towards the institutions that the United States was actually fully instrumental in creating. We will also have close cooperation with the United States in this area when it comes to new thinking in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e277	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e280	It's great to be able to start this spontaneous questioning session by sharing the joy of the changes Obama can bring to all of us. If I'm going to be allowed to give a witness, it's about a lifelong love for America and the American people, and that today I can get rid of eight years of love. That's a good feeling, I must say! But then that's all of the expectations we have of what this can represent. At least I want to put on an important expectation, which I've really followed closely in the Obama election campaign, and that's what this can represent of change in American energy policy and the use of renewables. Think what can happen when American heads, research environments and industrial capacity are deployed with Obama's enthusiasm! It could be the beginning of something big. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e287	I am happy about it and the love life of the representative Sponheim in this area, to which I – without any misunderstanding – will join. [[Laughter]] There is no doubt that climate issues, renewable energy and energy security cannot be resolved without the wise heads of the United States. The United States has the wise heads. They have carried out fundamental transformations on the technology side in the past, and it gives cause for optimism if the United States unleashes that potential. But I think it's important to come back to the newly elected president's words tonight that this will take time. There are demanding processes to turn around, but he has pointed out in his election campaign that parts of the solution to the US crisis are now in environmental technology, in new ways of doing things, and not least in choosing another energy track that makes the United States less dependent on fossil fuels, and more innovative in finding the new forms of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e294	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e297	Martin Luther King outlined in his famous speech ‘I have a dream’ a dream that the skin color should not delineate the possibilities of society. The strong separation of races kept the blacks down, both when it's gallant possibilities for breathing, to ensure health and to get a good human dignity. It was said that they did not have the same human value as they whiten. Today, the dream of Martin Luther King has become a reality. Many thought it would never be possible to get a black president in the United States. But with the choice of Barack Obama one has shown that the blacks have the potential and are as good and competent as all the others. What kind of signal effect does the Foreign Minister think this option will have for the black or minority's position, and their ability to be able to take responsibility and work and make a difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e304	It is an important question and an important signal from this choice. First of all, it's a signal that in the United States everything or everything is possible. It is Americans of the representative's age and my age who have grown up that they could not sit on benches because they were of a particular skin color. Today, an African-American president, a black president, has been elected in the United States. I think it's going to have a huge signal effect – not just after this night. Now we're going to see a colored American representing the United States on all the scenes, the national ones, around the United States, and in international contexts. We have seen a lot of evidence of this from Americans themselves – not least from those who have voted this over, and many of them have for the first time in life gone to the polls in the belief that democracy actually meant an opportunity for them, and that it was not just something for others. I think that also sends a signal to the whole world, to all minorities, that it is possible, and to all the majority that they must keep that opportunity open, because it is in the interests of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e309	The story goes to the next main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. The President will remember the time of speech. That means that when the red lamp goes out, you close your mouth!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e314	Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate our close ally, the United States, the American people and Barack Obama on the historic election of the 44th President of the United States. So to something completely different: municipal economy. My question goes to the municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. We are now in a situation where the municipalities are far inside the budget processes, planning the economic activity for next year. In the view of the Progress Party, one has a government budget to deal with which it is very difficult to see any realism, not least in relation to the tax estimates that are being operated on. In reality, the state budget is raising to a rather formidable growth in tax revenue next year. These are assumptions that municipalities are now planning on. At the same time, we hear several municipalities reporting problems in raising capital to build new hospitals and schools. In the view of the Progress Party, it is absolutely necessary, now that we have the real effects of the financial crisis, to strengthen the local economy. That's why the Progress Party does it. We are strengthening the local economy by nearly DKK 5 billion until next year, while seeing the need to increase the grant scheme and the interest compensation scheme in order to start developing the municipal sector. Does the Council of State not see any need to strengthen the local economy when we now have the real effects of the financial crisis also in Kommune-Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e324	I'm following closely what's now happening in the municipal sector. I have to say that I was very pleased to be able to present a budget of NOK 8.4 billion to the municipalities next year, which means that a loan scheme for the maintenance of schools, swimming pools and church buildings is in place, which means that there are also grants for 1,000 new care homes/sickness centres and 1,500 rented dwellings. The budget for the following year will be required, not least because of the cost increase for 2008 and, of course, because it is now insecure. If something's certain, there's a lot of security right now. The representative of the tax estimate. In the budget, the Government is laying down a total tax increase of 3 pst. for municipalities and counties. That's our best estimate. Then there is also a page that is followed closely. It is possible to amend the revised budget. It's common for us to look at it then. So the representative also has the possibility of getting a loan in Municipality-Noreg. It is quite obvious that the municipalities will be able to participate in the loan arrangements now included in the budget for 2009 and should be able to carry out their activities in the best possible way, they will depend on a well-functioning loan market. There is also a page that the Government is currently following very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e335	I note that the Council of State does not respond to the question, but only refers to these small amounts contained in the State budget, with the interest compensation scheme for school and church buildings, which actually amounts to only 62 million. kr to next year – so not the big deal to talk about. If it is the case that municipalities have to wait for the revised national budget to be cleared up in a lower tax entrance and to have capital made available to build Municipality-Norway, it must be better for us to meet the increased unemployment that we see for ourselves next year, by letting the municipalities invest in new hospitals and new schools, rather than paying social security to unemployed construction workers. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is a point, an offensive way of meeting the challenges we are likely to face next year, instead of waiting for unemployment to change and become a reality, which, to a large extent, unfortunately, is also going to hit the Municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e342	I take away from the expression expected and see. What I underlined in my reply is that, in fact, measures have been put forward in this budget that I believe it is important to make things work from 1 January. The national association of the construction industry, for example, was very positive to the budget on 7 October. The difficult situation may either worsen or improve. I'm not ready to connect to $5 billion plus here and now, even if the Progress Party suggests it. Now let's see how the budget works. Then we'll have our readiness, and then we'll have to get involved. The most important thing for the municipalities, too many inhabitants in this country and too many who are afraid of their work, is to reduce interest rates, and the Stortinget has joined the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e351	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Michael Momyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e354	I have the following additional questions for the Council of State: We now see many examples of the financial crisis leading to the postponement or cessation of municipal investment, because the institutions of the Municipal Bank and the local government credit institution have put a stop to the loan. When we discussed the package of measures last Friday, the Right called for a more offensive approach to these institutions. I allow myself to ask the Council of State what the Government now intends to do to get municipal credit and the municipal bank more operational in relation to the credit problem to Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e361	Let me first say that the government is busy ensuring that the municipalities have a well-functioning loan market to stick to. The local government bank is still running a loan, but they can meet the slowdown in their lending growth due to the requirement to own funds. I have met with the Municipal Bank, Municipal Credit, KS and several others just to be up-to-date and to take the necessary action with the Government. When local government credit is involved, they are in a special situation. They are eight of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. There are, of course, also interministerial discussions, because it is important to secure local government credit so that there is competition among the two main actors in the local government sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e370	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e373	This is the first time I've heard Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa say that next year will be demanding for the municipalities. It is good that she has got the right opinion. We are given many signals that there are many rapporteurs, municipal politicians and advisers around Norway and are striving with the budgets. It's good that the municipal minister sees this, but it's serious that she doesn't do anything about it. We see that it's going to be less tax revenue, it's going to be higher expenditure, and it's going to be cut off in the municipal budgets. Then it is serious not to have a majority government take over, re-apply the cards and take the situation seriously to avoid a need to cut teaching positions, cut help care positions, make a worse offer in Norwegian municipalities for the next year. Can the Council of State please look at the figures again and say something optimistic to Norwegian municipal politicians and give some money now and not wait half a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e382	In fact, I am a little uncertain about whether the representative Tørresdal has followed up on what I have said in connection with the submission of the State budget. I have never hidden that on the one hand I think that 8.4 billion kroner plus, which is actually more than the municipalities could expect from the May warning in the municipal bill, is a big difference. On the other hand, I don't think it eases all the sorrows or solves all the challenges for next year. And now I've also traveled around a lot of municipalities. I have concerns, of course, on the one hand – but remember we have a worse situation now, in fact, more alarm than in October. On the other hand, there are also many who say that it could be worse if we had not had a government that shows that she is betting on the community. I can then make sure that I follow the situation every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e391	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e394	It is recorded that the Council of State has been visiting Hedmark and Uppland and has met with the local government in the two counties with a message that they have reason to be satisfied with the next year’s budget. But what's the answer? I quote from the Kommunal Report: ‘We have to cut 23 million in 2009. We have never experienced that before, said Vice-President Svein Erik Hilmen in North Aurdal. [[Sp]] In Eastern Toten, President-in-Office Hans Seierstad, who is also head of the KS in Oppland, must cut 10-15 million in the next few years.» In addition, we get a message of concern from the KS that the economic outlook is gloomier than what had been established when the budget was created. KS fears a tax failure in the local government sector for next year – the assumptions are, in other words, wrong – and asks the Storting to adjust the taxpayer. Is the Council of State in agreement with the CS and signed that the budget of the year has been set aside and expired?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e409	The answer is no. The State budget has not expired. So I can confirm that I agree with KS that it is important to follow the situation closely. I also think Kongshaug should read the reactions from KS when the state budget was presented. Sitata from Hedmark and Oppland also showed that the situation in municipalities is very different. In fact, there were also some who got up at the KS conference in Hedmark/Oppland and were happy because they had actually got more than they had expected. I visited the representative's own home country this week. In Gemene's municipality, which has a demanding economy, they were very happy that they now got part of loan arrangements and were able to equip the Gemene's school. I think I'll repeat it once again: all the challenges are not solved until next year, all the sorrows are not finished. $8.4 billion makes a difference. We're following very closely, because we're a government that's busy strengthening the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e418	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e421	The red-green government has flagged that all empty swimming pools in the municipalities should be filled with water. It was also the big campaign case at the last big shot. There's been a part of this in the staging room; you've called for exactly this. In fact, there are many municipalities that do not have satisfactory swim offers for their inhabitants. And there are new challenges to the Council of State. The swimming pool in Lørenskog, for example, has been closed for three years, and there are gloomy predictions as to whether this hall will ever be opened. What does the Council of State say to the inhabitants of Lørenskog, who have not received water in their pool, and to the desperate Labour Party rapporteur, who would have preferred to afford to rehabilitate the swimming pool there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e428	I am impressed by all the municipalities over the three years that have now passed, that in 2006 and 2007, they made sure that 35 more young people were put into kindergarten every day, that they made sure that 15 new ones were added to the care sector every single day of the two years. Then, as Thomsen here pointed out, there are still challenges. It is that many municipalities have increased costs, but also go in plus to next year. So there is a loan arrangement that some municipalities will now be able to use – 2 billion in total next year at the school and pool. I'm not that detailed about Lørenskog. I see that Lørenskog is now taking a roof for his difficult times in the housing market. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e437	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e440	I think the Stortinget has come along with the Minister of State, but now I want to ask the Minister of Knowledge to follow. The Ministry of Knowledge has sent a proposal for a student register at the hearing. The proposal has aroused strong reactions, and that is not strange. Let me quote from parts of the draft hearing: ‘Personal relationships such as health, sexual orientation, ethnic background and religious perception can have a major impact on the individual’s experience of the physical and psychosocial learning environment. In order to facilitate the learning environment for vulnerable groups so that the quality of training for this group of students is no worse than for others, it is important to have the possibility to carry out studies to this effect at an aggregate level, including in the context of the student survey.» Further: ‘In order to view the data in a life-long perspective, the Ministry considers that there should be an opportunity to keep the data in the central register several decades before anonymisation.’ The right considers that the proposal conflicts with a human right such as the right to privacy and is a serious attack on privacy – perhaps the most serious outcome of the ‘big mother’ accompanying you in all phases of life. In a press release on Friday, the Ministry tried to exonerate the proposal by saying that the claim that the proposal for the registration of sexual orientation is incorrect. However, all data protection experts have taken the view that the proposal is the same as the Right. This concerns the Ministry of Innovation, the Ministry of Justice and the Data Protection Authority. The parental committee for primary school writes that this proposal is a serious attack on the privacy of our children. I believe that the Minister of Knowledge now has a very good opportunity to remove the misappropriation of this proposal, by being clear and clear to the Stortinget and saying that this proposal should not only be put in a drawer, but go straight from consultation to the department's machinations machine, so that we do not see it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e461	We can simply get rid of the misalignment by saying that it won't be created a student register where we're going to record individual data about e.g. sexual orientation or religious perception. There are no suggestions from me, it's not in the listener's letter, and we're not going to do it, because that's not desirable. The easiest way to clarify it is to read the next sentences, which Bent Höie didn't read, from the letter of hearing. He quoted exactly two sentences from the hearing letter, and then he stopped. What he says after what he read is the following: ‘The provision on the processing of data in the Training Act and the Private School Act should therefore be amended in the light of the Ministry’s assessment to allow them to collect and process such sensitive personal data. For today’s purposes, this information does not need to be stored at individual level in the national database. They may be stored at an aggregate level after collection at individual level before being deleted.» I underline again: it is not relevant to store individual data on e.g. religious beliefs or sexual orientation in a database. It'll be completely wrong. We are not asking for such an opportunity in the proposal, and we are not going to do so. But what we're going to do, as we do today, and as we think is important, is for example. asking the elephants whether they have experienced being discriminated against on the basis of their religious beliefs, or whether they have experienced bullying on the basis of their sexual orientation. It is possible to ask today, and data is stored at an aggregate level – we will be able to do that. But I repeat, we're not proposing individual registration, it's not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e473	This is obviously not as clear as the Minister of Knowledge wants it to, as long as both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Renewal and the Ministry of Data Protection perceive this in the same way as we do, as well as a number of municipalities, county councils and the Parental Committee of Primary School. In addition, the legal framework proposed provides the basis for what I addressed in my main question. Although the Minister of Knowledge now says that they do not want to use the funds in these circumstances, there is no doubt that it will give permission to do so. And it should be removed. It is misleading to compare with the student survey. The student survey is a voluntary study in which the information is provided anonymously. At all events, it is a scheme to provide this information to students who have been named, initially an infringement of privacy. Can the Minister of Knowledge confirm that this draft consultation sent out will be withdrawn and that a new draft will be drawn up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e482	It's not misleading to refer to the student examination, because it's just the student examination that the representative, Höie and I were reading from, is about. There's information that we're collecting that's about the learning environment, where an elephant is asking about them, for example. is bullied or discriminated against in the school. We ask for an opportunity to store some of the information on the learning environment at an aggregate level. Then we ask for the possibility to save some other information. It can be, for example, is about special education at individual level, which is specifically mentioned, so that one can compare the extent to which special education is effective for later learning. In that case, it should be pseudonymized, so that one can never trace it back to the individual or person again. But I agree that when confusion arises, we have a job to do. That is why we need to have close contact with the proposal further, for example. with the Data Protection Authority. There must be no doubt about this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e489	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e492	In a school that is struggling with great quality challenges, it's an absurd idea to think at all about bringing up registration sexual orientation in children. The point is that this comes into focus. Governments say that bullying is the main issue in the student survey, and relations with what is to be recorded. But the question in the student survey is precisely the relationship to sexual orientation, whether you've been bullied because of sexual orientation, and that's the information that's to be recorded. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to avoid misunderstandings in this context. So far in the Question Time, the Council of State has not helped to clear up those misunderstandings. Can the Council of State now guarantee that this type of information will not be registered under any circumstances under the supervision of Solhjell in the Ministry of Knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e500	I can guarantee that we do not want to store or register information about e.g. sexual orientation or religious perceptions in a central register, as it has been claimed in the media and from here that we will do. We're not suggesting it, it's not up to date. But what I think is important, however, is that we in an anonymous investigation, such as. The student research is, in fact, can ask the elephants if they are being bullied on the basis of their sexual orientation, for example, and a number of other questions. The student survey is in many ways a student's work environment survey. Among those who have been concerned that issues of discrimination and bullying should be addressed are the Student Organisation, the National Association for Lesbian and Homophilic Liberation and others. But based on privacy considerations and because it is completely unnecessary and incorrect, we should not store that kind of information in a register.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e505	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e508	In the previous Question Time I asked questions about the transparency process that SV and Left have agreed on. SV and left have also been very involved in privacy. In the previous Question Time, the Swedish Government that then met had to admit that she had lost the fight in the Government on openness. When we see this consultation note, which states that you can really trace information back to the students – sail if the Council of State claims that you cannot – and that you really should register the very most personal data about a student, without the Council of State being able to explain why it should be done, and why it is so crucial that these personal data should be recorded, I wonder: Has SV lost in the Government again, or have you just been tricked?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e513	I repeat: we do not propose to store that type of personal data at the individual level in a register. It is not desirable. That would be wrong. I'll never make such a suggestion. I haven't suggested it. I don't agree with that. I don't know how to express the more clearly. But I agree that there has been doubt in the public debate about it, and that both the opposition, the Data Protection Agency and others have claimed it. The question is itself a problem, because if one, for example: should be able to ask the elephants if they should be able to feel safe and secure that it is not stored, but that it is in order to obtain information on bullying or discrimination, we need to remove that doubt. It's a job I have to do in the future. If we're going to go on with some kind of register like this, we need to have a process with all the people involved. We have to close all the doors for any doubt that we have to store that kind of information at the individual level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e520	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e523	A lot can be done for the good, but it is probably also so that things can be used in the wrong way. I'd like to quote the Data Protection Authority: ‘This is in practice a blank authorisation to require and record all types of sensitive information in the foreseeable future’. And then we've heard what kind of information that might be. The State Secretary responds to the Data Protection Authority by saying that the Data Protection Authority ‘acts more as a fighting body than a supervision’. The State Secretary further states that ‘the Data Protection Authority manages it in a way that damages their credibility’. Although the Council of State does not want to listen to the opposition, these are quite clear messages from the Data Protection Authority. We hear that you don't intend to do that, but this is to give a blank authorisation to ask children about something that you don't have the right to ask about in your working life. Does the Council agree with its State Secretary in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e543	In the Ministry of Knowledge, we have great respect for and trust in the Data Protection Authority. I've read their hearing statement myself. I think they understand our proposal wrong, because they also write that such a register should be created and that it is a blank authorisation. But we don't suggest it, which I have now read from our own letter and insured about here. On the other hand, I think it is now important that we actually go into this process and first assess whether there is a need for a register after the hearing statements, but not least, if we are going to go on with it, remove all doubts, close all doors for a suspicion that it might be relevant to store a type of individual data on, for example. sexual orientation. That's 100 pst. I understand that it would be wrong, not desirable, completely unnecessary. I'm against it. The type of insurance must be available to all if we are to gather the type of knowledge at aggravated level or other important information that can contribute to a better education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e550	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e553	I note with satisfaction that the Council of State is steering as best he can. He rode quite well, and he is now approaching the bridal edge in view of what is a rather difficult theme, for the government has a rather poor record of privacy. This isn't the first time this kind of issue comes up. For approx. One year ago, we had almost the same problem with kindergartens. We thought that ball was dead. However, in a letter from the Ministry of Justice as late as 23 October 2008 on this matter, the Ministry of Justice says that they have ‘explained previously critical of the establishment of their own register of all kindergarten children’, and that they are ‘understood that the two proposals have some similarities’, and that they are close to each other. It is therefore pointed out that ‘the need to carry out an adequate assessment of necessity’. Can we now feel confident that this does not apply to kindergarten children too? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e562	The type of information it would be completely out of date to collect for kindergarten children. To calm down or not to calm down – what I have done here is to read from what we have actually sent on the phone. I want to repeat the central phrase: ‘This information does not need to be stored at individual level in the national database for the current purpose. They may be stored at an aggregate level after collection at individual level before being deleted.» So it's not suggested, not applicable. But I agree that doubt about that kind of question is a serious matter, because it's a matter of people feeling safe, of being able to participate in investigations without any abuse of information later. That is why we must take this very seriously in the further process. I'm going to have close contact with the Data Protection Agency, the Student Organisation and the opposition at Stortinget and discuss whether we're going to present it, and then how we're going to be 100 pst. ensure that important data protection considerations are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e574	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e578	I have a question for the Minister of State. In less than two years, up to 10,000 people in housing camps have experienced losing their homes and being put in a lifelong economic squeeze. Many of these are young people, and they've bought themselves into so-called low-income homes. The house bank has financed about half of the 4 000 low-deposit dwellings that have been built in recent years. Today's economy has referred to some of these projects as state-funded debt bombs. On questions from the Left's Trine Skei Grande in April this year about the Husbank has given loans they should not have given, the Council of State replied no. Is the Council of State still standing by this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e589	I think I said at the time that the House Bank was going to give a full overview of the project they have been in. It has also been done by the House Bank, and it turned out that the production that had been in several media was strongly exaggerated. The household bank has followed up the commitment they have had. So, they've borrowed a barricade, which has borrowed, which has made it possible for individuals to go into debt. We're not going to have it that way. The house bank has gone directly into concrete projects to help clean up, both in Tromsø and in Verdal. It is also the case that screening work can be carried out to see the overall size of this sector. As soon as we have that overview, we will also look at the necessary changes on the law page. It is true that both the Consumer Council, property brokers and many others have already been in a position to do so. The whole price is going to be, because here we have one of the dilemmas when people think about whether they're going to buy into a barricade. What I can say is that the copies mentioned here have shown that it was necessary to react both to the House Bank and others, and that it is also necessary for those who purchase a warrant, to carefully evaluate and bring all the details with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e596	I thank you for this answer, and have an additional question: The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The government will: – launch a comprehensive programme for the construction of non-commercial rental dwellings, low-income dwellings, student housing and small owner-occupied dwellings’. The government has now had three years on it, and in Stavanger Aftenblad on Saturday 1 November this year, Eirin Sund said, ‘Ap fails in housing policy’. Has the government’s social housing policy really been left to creative housing speculators and a little naive home bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e612	I think the House Bank has an important role to play, and I believe the House Bank in the current situation will have a more important and clearer role in 2009. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has launched a very ambitious housing policy, and I am happy to say that there are many points that are actually being met in the 2009 budget. We are taking important steps forward. The most important thing is a new and improved support, which will mean that from 1 July 50 000 more households will be able to get the key to a safer home. There will be consequences for the rental market, because it provides security both for the tenants and for the tenants, and there will be more rental properties... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e619	There will be two follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e622	In the context of the year’s social security settlement, the Government increased the minimum pension only for the same – the Progress Party wanted as well as known to increase the pension for all up to 2G. This has had consequences for housing support. Because the tables for the Household Bank have not changed, the new income is not fully covered. This results, inter alia, in: in that some of the minimum pensioners with whom I have been in contact have now received less net income than they had before the increase. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable arrangement of the housing support scheme? Is this something you want to have consequences for the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e629	I think I should address a special thank you to the representative for this question, because I have noticed that there is concern among many minimum pensioners when it comes to the disabled. Let me say that the bumps are paid with a background in the equation number. Therefore, no changes shall be marked in relation to social security at that time. When it comes to social security, it is said that there may be unwanted reductions in relation to groups of pensioners. It's a matter for the government to come back to. So there's something that the government and the negotiating parties in consultation have been told about how to write, and the government has a mission to follow. There's no reason to worry at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e636	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e639	We're in a situation of falling housing prices. The evening post today reports that there is only one thing worse for young people than rising housing prices, and there are falling housing prices. The Government Party's response to the challenges on the housing market has been so far that the Centerpartiet Lundtigen has proposed to remove the tax deduction on interest on mortgages, Heikki Holmås of the Socialist Left Party has proposed to reintroduce the housing tax, and the Government has in fact increased the housing tax by raising the value of the equation in relation to its government budgets, also in the proposal that has now been put forward. The right considers that it is a goal that most of the Nordics should own their own housing, and therefore it is wrong to have the dwelling as a tax item. On the contrary, the removal of house taxes is an important means of maximising the ownership of their dwellings. Does the Minister of State agree that the introduction of new taxes on housing will be an important means of housing policy, as the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have called for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e648	I don't think it's up to the municipal minister to comment on housing taxes in this forum. It's the other part of the government that handles it. I am behind what the Government proposes. But I understand that the representative Höie has not come to realize that the government actually has a strong commitment to a more social housing policy. Among other things, there will be: in the 2009 budget. There, we propose a new and improved housing support, which accounts for 50,000 households, and we propose the addition of 1,500 new rental homes, where it is possible to bind the interest rate in the House Bank for 20 years. And then I have to be allowed to say that the House Bank is a very important tool for the Government at this time. The House Bank has been told by me to use its operating space, so that several young people can have the opportunity to finance their loans these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e657	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e661	My main question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. We have behind us a period when very many former child-restraints have come up with their stories that they have not received the training they are entitled to. Sorrys have been sent from all parties to these children. Many of them have applied for a cheap substitute, and we've all really assumed that this is something that belongs to the story. Then we experience that there is control in the South Trøndelag County, where child-restraint children do not receive the training they require when they are in the institution. In the World’s Gang on November 3, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Of 22 children living in institutions in the South Trøndelag, only two children had received the education they were entitled to.’ This happens when the Council of State Solhjell has guarded the Ministry of Knowledge, and I would like to ask the Council of State to make a brief and frank explanation of what he has done to ensure that this situation does not arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e673	Children’s protection in institutions have the same rights under the law, for example: training law, like all other kids in Norway. They should have the same good schooling and offer an equal level of education as others. One of the reasons we've been active in supervision is that we want to check if they actually get it. It's true that it's covered, not only in the South Trøndelag, but also elsewhere, that children's protection at the institution don't get the training they need. That's also why we've been so busy checking it out. Unfortunately, I have to say that we know that there are also other children in the ordinary school who do not receive the training they are entitled to and who do not receive the special education they are to receive. It's very serious. The most important thing we can do with it is in the first round to check and find out. Afterwards, those responsible for the training of the individual municipality or county municipality should correct the failure and arrange for the training provided for them to be actually provided. In the end, it will be a matter for us if we are forced to go in and see if there is anything wrong with the rights or the training itself that is not good enough. I believe that the law in this area is covering, but that is the practical follow-up, what is actually going on in schools and in individual municipalities and institutions, which is not working well enough. Therefore, I would like to demand that what is now covered by several checks is corrected and followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e680	I think that this answer was very passive, because it shifts responsibility, as the Council of State often does, to others, in this way municipalities and county municipalities. The situation is more than serious. It says, among other things: here: ‘Some students are denied schooling and offered horse riding or random jobs on businesses.’ So now this government has been sitting for three years, and they claim they've spent a lot of time revealing these relationships. But in this situation, with this result, the impossible state council can lean back and point to the county council and the municipality. Immediate action is needed to correct this situation immediately, so that no more children in child-rescue institutions suffer from the passivity that this Council of State is now showing on this issue. This is something that can be solved much faster. The question is then: how will the Council of State sit in the chair to solve this problem that is serious for the children of the institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e690	The truth is, there's been too much time without even finding that we have that kind of unacceptable conditions in child protection institutions when it comes to training, some places in Norway. It has been important that we actually check and get it on the table. Then we demand that this be immediately seized, corrected, that the law be followed, and that one give it the offer of a shell. In fact, there should be a regular schooling, and there should be the same requirements for students, the same supported and the same help. And then we'll also have to go through this and see if there's anything more we from national law have to do when it comes to laws or promises. But in the first place, the most important thing is that they are offered the same school that the county and the municipalities are able to offer to everyone else – that is, the same requirements and the same support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e695	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e698	Now I think the Council of States is almost close by taking its mouth a little too full. He said he was active in overseeing. I would like to say that it was more random that a director of the South Trondelag was able to reveal this, because it is also stated in the same article: ‘But the county councils lack routines and often the institutions themselves were responsible for the education of the children.’ We know that the Norwegian school has a challenge of actually reproducating social differences instead of balancing them, as the goal has been. Maybe that's one of the weakest groups we're facing. I would say, as the previous representative, that it is more than passive what we actually see from the Council of State. Is it so that the waiting and watching attitude that is described in several staging messages now, e.g. in the last that came from the department, Quality in School, goes all the way up in the department to address these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e708	That's quite the opposite. It's because there's too many unacceptable offers and elephants that don't get what they're demanding, we're in favour of a significant increase in supervision, i.e. making quality checks, in the budget for next year. We want to double the capacity outside of the individual county. We allow approx. Five million. kr more to supervise the schools in the county. In addition, we increase the capacity to supervise and check the private schools and bring them up at national level. It's precisely because we need better capacity to discover the kind of things that are not only covered in the South Trøndelag, but also elsewhere. The most important thing we do with it is that we systematically take up faults that are discovered, with those who are responsible, explain what the rights are, provide support and guidance, and demand that it be corrected. If we see that there is no capacity for it, we go on with actions at national level, as we have done in a number of such areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e713	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e716	That the Council of State has not known how difficult child-restraint children have had it is perhaps a truth with certain modifications. NOVA has conducted a study covering children’s protection between 1990 and 2005, approximately in 2005. 120 000 children, and the findings that were made there, were not very uplifting. Three out of ten child protection children complete secondary school — three out of ten. It's nine times as likely that they get into disability when compared to others of their own age, which may also be due to lack of schooling. What will the Council of State do now to avoid that four out of five child-restraints do not get the education they are going to have, and that they are entitled to, and thus end up in social security or in a very poorly paid job?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e725	I am very well aware that child-restraint is among the groups that come out the worst in both the challenge system, in the workplace and socially later, that we are unable to smooth out social differences, and that many of them end up very badly in Norwegian society. We're doing a lot to improve that situation. I mean, the most important thing, maybe, is the babysitting revolution that we're about to end. 95 pst. Of all 5- and 6-year-olds starting school, there has now been a childcare facility. The provision of young people about a social arena where they can learn and get a better basis with others is far better than ever. Then we strengthen the early efforts of the early school years. If you want to tackle those challenges, you have to do it right away, you can't wait to see them. This is exactly why we spend NOK 1 billion on several teachers and systematically introduce the first years of schooling to tackle all those who are tired, early.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e734	Let's go to the last main question – Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e738	My question goes to the Minister of State. The councils, I record, are brilliantly satisfied with the state of things in Commune-Norway. But after three red-green years, more and more municipalities are in the process of experiencing serious economic difficulties. With greatly increased interest rates, increased wage costs and ever new red-green promises, there has been an expectation crisis in which more and more municipalities are being pushed into a corner. The red-green municipal transfers do not go far, and we see cuts in welfare services, school closures and depopulation. Municipal property tax is one of the really big and principal issues of local politics, and the theme has been central to a number of municipal elections throughout the country. In this situation, a growing number of municipalities experience that they are being pushed, on the one hand threatened and, on the other hand, lured into taxing property at an entirely premature pressure from the county office in different counties. It is true that in 2009, the county councillors were supposed to distribute approx. 1 500 million. kr in discretionary funds. Let me give you some examples. In my own county, the municipality of Råde has been clearly informed by the county council that 1 million have been set aside. kr in discretionary funds, if the local council decides to make better use of the entire municipal income base. The same is true of Stord in Hordaland. The municipality has not imposed any property taxes. As the municipality does not exploit its own income base, the county must be cautious about providing the municipality with a discretionary grant – cf. Guidelines of the Ministry. My question to the municipal minister is: can the municipal minister be as clear as Erna Solberg was as municipal minister in the last growing-up period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e751	It is very nice that the Right is occupied by both the local economy and the local self-government, and that the Right now follows closely on the cuts that many municipalities need to evaluate. I think that the Right should also include that the situation in Kommune-Noreg today is somewhat different from that of Bondevik II, for example. when it relates to the number of municipalities that have to be followed up in particular by the county because the local economy is extra demanding when they do not have their budget in balance. On the ROBEK list, the number was at some point under Bondevik II 118, now it's 43. It's a big difference. There may be more people coming in in 2009, but still. So to property tax: it's the most I could want to congratulate Right on a successful campaign around the country. Because I have quite unexpectedly been assigned some headlines in various newspapers, in the direction of untimely pressure from Kleppa, Kleppa presses the municipalities and many other headlines, because I am going to have given new guidelines to the county councillors for the allocation of clients. That is not the case. I have changed the guidelines for 2009 at one point. It is that I have asked the county officials to note that tax revenue is not included in the calculation of their free income, just as property tax does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e760	Then the council can now have a golden opportunity to put this ball dead once and for all. Can she now be as clear, from the spokesperson of Stortinget, as the then municipal minister Erna Solberg was, that property tax is a voluntary municipal tax, that the county cannot oblige municipalities to impose property taxes, and that the county cannot require the use of income opportunities? For this is what we see examples of from state to state over a number of municipalities, that the county put a number of municipalities under an untimely pressure, on the one hand threats, on the other hand lures and on the other hand pushes the municipalities to impose property taxes. If you don't, you don't get these beauties from the red-green government. Could the Council of State be as clear as Minister of State Erna Solberg was at this point in his time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e767	This government, like the previous government, assumes that property tax is a voluntary tax. This government, like the previous government, assumes that local government is responsible for its own economy. It will also be reflected in the guidelines sent by the Ministry to the county councillors, which are designed to maintain a level playing field in the field of employment. Then I must be allowed to say that what Erna Solberg, among other things. the following were taken into account: the population should be careful to distribute skinners to municipalities that do not exploit their own income base or who oppose the implementation of defence-related expenditure-reducing measures. So it's an emphasis on the overall assessment that the statesmen are going to carry out, which is identical to what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e774	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e777	The council now has the opportunity to say clearly yes or no, do not tone this down and talk away from the heart of the matter. Is it to understand that no municipality that refuses to use property taxes will be denied discretionary means, or will it be reduced to discretionary means, for 2009? If this is a standing and current policy for this government, it's very nice if the government prepares it here and now, quite clearly. For this is an important part of local democracy. Yes or no to property taxes and the prioritisation of possible use of money are an important part of the local policy debate. I really thought the Center Party was a party that was a supporter of local democracy, local decision-making. Now that the difficult economic situation of municipalities enters into 2009, it will be totally unsustainable for municipalities to be forced to introduce property taxes. Yes or no, I want to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e784	Thus, property tax is a voluntary tax that is up to the individual municipality to decide whether to introduce. The answer to that question is yes. Then it's the way clients are means that the county officials have at their disposal to individual municipalities after an overall assessment. At that point, what has now been stated in the guidelines for several years, namely that the municipalities themselves need to clarify the means to be used to achieve a balanced economy and a good operation of the municipality. This means that the municipalities themselves must also assess both their income base and any cuts in expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e789	So the oral questioning process is over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e794	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered before question 18, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 16 and 17 from representatives Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and Tord Lien of the Minister for Oil and Energy respectively have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e811	Question 1 – as usual from Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e818	Let me first thank the Presidency for always being set up as the first questioner. It gives predictability in time usage here in Stortinget. My question then goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Court of Auditors has found, in its control, that the tax rate has not achieved its objectives in the prevention and control of tax crime. Far fewer traders than before have been checked in the last two years, and the intention to control more complex cases has not been fulfilled. These are discouraging results when one knows that appropriations have still increased in this sector. What will the Council of State do to reverse this negative development in such an important area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e829	I thank you for this weekly opportunity to meet the fleet and the president, and I would like to answer the question. The government has been committed to strengthening the work against tax evasion and financial crime from day one. That's why we've strengthened the tax rate financially, we've spent money hiring our own tax auditors at the political borders, and we've made it easier to act law-abiding – to mention something. However, reducing the level of tax and tax crime is very complex and challenging. It is a question of finding a proper balance between how much is to be checked and how, so that resources are used in the best possible way. It is also about allocating limited resources between direct control work and more indirect and preventive work in the form of information and guidance. A lot of good work is already done. Both Riksrevision's Document No. In my opinion, 1 for 2008-2009 for the financial year 2007 and the Annual Report of the Tax Directorate for 2007 give a more nuanced picture than the question can give the impression. The number of businesses checked has fallen slightly, but in particular the proportion of persons checked has fallen significantly. This is because there has been a strong growth in the number of new entrepreneurs, especially in 2007. It is linked to a strong economic boom. In addition, it is the quantity of the relatively simple equation checks that have been reduced the most, not to a significant extent, the number of heavier book surveys. But I will not deny that it has been demanding for the tax rate to follow up on a high economic cycle. The tax administration's control work is the most experienced in times of tight labour market and high turnover in the main job groups constituting the control expertise. 2007 was such a year and, in my opinion, developments in the monitoring results of the establishment should also be assessed in the light of this. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the efforts to reduce the size of the black economy and tax evasion remain one of the most important areas of the tax haven. Therefore, Stortinget joined a proposal from the Government to grant 50 million. additional to this objective in the context of the 2008 revised national budget, and therefore the Government proposes to strengthen efforts in this area by nearly 100 million. kr in 2009. This last major effort is detailed in the budget proposal submitted to the Ministry of Finance and is particularly intended to strengthen the complex control work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e844	I thank you for your answer. Let me first say that my question is initially not unfurnished, and if it is, the Riksrevision's presentation is also unfurnished, because it's taken directly from there. I perceive that the Council of State is very concerned that more is being granted. It has also been the right hand side. We have been for the appropriations that have been made. But I'm also concerned that the resources are being used correctly, and I think it's particularly important now because we've had six months, or maybe longer, where there have been a number of things that have been unfortunate for the tax haven. This does not apply only to the packaging of the Riksrevisionen. We have had a lubrication case, we have had personal data that has gone astray, there have been significant complaints about the shareholder register tasks, and this sums up to a lot of dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e853	First just a little comment on the question. It is not much less business that has been checked, but the proportion of people checked is that they have not been able to maintain in a situation of high economic activity. However, I agree with Mr Fletten on the importance of this work, because it concerns the seriousness of all traders, respect for compliance with the tax rules that are in place. It also has to do with the seriousness of things that are not directly related to tax or tax payments, but those that relate to employment, i.e. a general check of the seriousness of the industry. That is why, both in the context of the revision and in the context of the State budget, we have now proposed to the Stortinget to strengthen this effort. So just a brief comment on the other questions that were raised. There are several demanding issues that the Tax Directorate has had to deal with. The question of the numbers was immediately raised. This matter was strongly addressed by both the Tax Directorate and the Ministry of Finance. The second question that was raised, I have no further comments to make now, except to say that in the routines of what applies to the future, it has been tightened up in terms of what is considered acceptable in relation to business activities up to the Tax Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e866	I think it's important that the tax rate has a good reputation among the audience, and of course it's important that it gets more resources. I also think it is important to look at how it works, to look at the organisation. In the early autumn, we have exchanged views on the tax haven's management of e.g.: old tax cases where the media press had to move the positions. So there's been a bunch of things -- I don't know if it's because most people are also concerned about it. But I think that the tax rate should in some way be raised over at least too much criticism. People should be dissatisfied with paying too much tax, yes, but this should be checked and followed up in a good way. I hope the Council of State can contribute even better to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e873	We have surveys among the population about the kind of trust you have in the tax rate where the tax rate reaches very high, and people are very happy with the service they get. It's incredibly important, and it's quite well done as well. Of course, people have to pay their taxes and taxes with understanding, but it may not be that you would initially think that the tax rate was among those who ranked high on the trust barometer. However, I fully agree with the fact that it also requires that both in the activities carried out in relation to controls are kept in mind, that people see that tax evasion is not avoided, and also generally in terms of how to process personal data, and that they are professional in relation to the border between the Tax Directorate and the tax administration and private enterprises, which are suppliers to the same department. I agree that we need to focus on this all the way. But the Tax Directorate and the Tax Department have succeeded so far. It's not done by itself. You have to keep working on that in order to maintain your trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e883	«The availability of loans is now greatly reduced for municipalities, according to reports from both the local government credit and the municipal bank, and interest rates are increasing. The so-called risk weight for Norwegian municipalities is 20 p.p., as opposed to the other Nordic countries, where it is 0. The credit supervision has previously recommended the weighting reduced to 10 pst. In view of the debt crisis and difficult economic times for Norwegian municipalities, will the Council of State take an initiative to reduce the risk weighting in order to reduce the costs of local government loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e890	In Norway, we have stressed that the capital adequacy rules for banks and other financial institutions should ensure that these have good and sufficient soundness. Amendments to the laws and regulations on capital requirements implementing the Basel II rules and subsequent EEA rules, Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/48/EC [[CRD]] [[CAD]] On 14 June 2006 the Ministry of Finance sent letters of consultation on ‘new capital adequacy legislation – draft regulations’. The consultation note and the proposal for a new capital requirement attached to the letter of consultation were prepared by the Credit Authority. The consultation note shows that the credit supervision assesses the risk of exposures to a municipality or county municipality as higher than the risk of similar exposures to the Norwegian State. The Ministry of Finance agrees with the Credit Authority’s assessment that loans to Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities have a higher risk than loans to the Norwegian State. It follows from the first subparagraph of point 9 of Part 1 of Annex VI to Directive 2006/48/EC: ‘Liabilities with regional governments and local authorities are treated as exposures to the central government of the country concerned if there is no difference in risk between those exposures because the former have powers to recover funds and if there are specific institutional provisions that reduce the risk of their default.’; This is a Danish translation. At the discretion of the Ministry, the abovementioned Directive does not allow the establishment of a risk weight on loans to Norwegian municipalities and counties corresponding to the risk weight on loans to the Norwegian State. The lowest possible risk weight for loans to municipalities is therefore within the meaning of Directive 20 pst. On this basis, the risk weight for loans to municipalities is set at 20 pst. In addition, the risk weight of loans to municipalities was not changed in relation to the previous rules of the capital requirement regulation laid down on 14 December 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e915	I thank you for your answer. I was going to bring the discussion down to a more practical level than all of these rules that we have now been presented. It is true that the Basel II regime applies not only in Norway, but also in other countries. In fact, across Europe, you have a weight of 0 pst. Without discussing directives, implementation in Norway, etc. I could like to ask the Minister of Finance the following: if possible under international obligations, agreements, etc. Which we have, to get down to 0 pst. thus saving Norwegian municipalities for a cost of perhaps 600 to 700 million. This year, would she contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e924	Of course, it's important to go through how these things are weighted. But the starting point for the questioner is the current situation in the financial market and the situation of the Municipal Bank and Municipal Credit. I want to warn you that in the light of these challenges, we are now lowering the requirements of soundness. There could be a question we get up in many contexts. Apart from this, I will not reject the issue, but I believe that the reason for setting the capital adequacy requirement where it is now located is good, and is well-lit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e931	Then I would like to ask the question in a slightly different way. I'm once again starting from a comparison with other Nordic countries, and also most other European countries. It has been assessed at political level and in the institutions, the credit supervision or the supervisory bodies they may have, that municipalities do not provide any security worse than the State. We have not seen any examples in Norway that municipalities have gone bankrupt. If that happened, it would be a very special case, where I expect the state to get into the picture. So, from a practical point of view, does the Minister of Finance not think that the same relationship should speak for us to look at the provisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e938	We are not aware that some municipalities have had serious problems at times. Nevertheless, one has managed to deal with those situations in such a way that one has not come into a situation where one has defaulted, as far as I know. I agree with the starting point of the Credit Authority, that there is a difference between the security provided by the Norwegian State and the municipalities and county councils, and that the risk is assessed differently. I think that's a pretty good reason for that. So to the situation for municipalities that are now reporting on funding challenges. We have a challenge with regard to the financial market, with interest rates, etc., which the questioner initially raised. But I think we should be very careful about connecting our desire to see a better-functioning financial market, with better opportunities for municipalities to borrow and the issues raised here by the representative Fleet. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e945	The President is asking you to keep your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e958	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e964	The question is: ‘The National Audit Office has carried out 25 major road construction projects showing that 10 had large exceedances. In addition, serious breaches of the rules, such as: lack of tender, root and delay. More than half of the projects were delayed. The National Audit Office therefore points out major shortcomings in the implementation and finalisation of road projects under the direction of the State Road Administration. What will the Council of State do to clean up the matters referred to by the National Audit Office and to ensure better implementation of road projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e973	This government has invested in the road – we haven't just talked about road – we now have more money to operate, maintain and invest in our road network. We're concerned that the permissions that come in our area should give the most possible way and path. The rules on public purchases are one of several measures designed to ensure this. I take the Riksrevision's comments seriously, and we've used them, and we want to use them, to get better and better. I would like to make it clear that the sample of the Riksrevision on the specified road projects is primarily linked to excesses on contract contracts. On larger road projects, many individual contracts are common. The time and cost deviation of an individual contract need not lead to a corresponding deviation of the total road project. The state road service benefits in all significant contracts with adjustable quantities. The nature of the work is such that quantity adjustments will always occur, and they could lead to time differences and costs compared to the contract entered into. Such regulations should not be confused with changes such as cancellation or as ordered additional work for the contract entered into. There may be more additional orders in a contract without the need to obtain new offers for the additional work. I am concerned that the quality of the State Road Service’s planning, design and cost management is good. The ratios taken by the Riksrevision show that there is room for improvement. For example, the costs of additional work ordered in the contract contracts represent an over-percentage compared to the contract total entered into. A number of measures have been taken by the state road authorities to improve the quality of the management of contracts. The state road authority is now working with improvements in the areas pointed to by the National Audit Office. The Ministry of Transport will follow up on this. Statistics for all completed road projects in 2007 exceed 5 million. kr shows that the total final cost on a national basis is 2 pst. lower than the sum of original estimates of costs. This is a really good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e994	I thank you for your answer. The contents of the report from the Riksrevision strongly support press releases related to the Riksrevision conclusion, namely that we have road projects that seem to be out of control. In fact, the National Auditor’s report refers to Norwegian road construction. In order to have additional work, a tender must be used, so that if you choose to buy or give specific orders for additional work, it must be documented. If road projects are delayed, different economic instruments shall be used where the contractor is required to pay for delays and when the road project is completed, evidence of termination shall be provided, not least related to post-work and responsibility for possible post-work. Is there a need for a major cleanup in the state road system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1003	The state road service went through a major conversion for a few years ago. I believe that the state's road system has dealt well – even though such a major reorganisation has made great demands on an organisation – both in terms of regionalization and separation of Mesta, which came relatively close in time. I have full confidence that the Swedish Road Administration's organisation will implement project management in a good way. The cost control to which the State Road Service refers shows that they do. And we see that in the annual annual reports that we get. I could go further into every single project that the Riksrevision has taken up. However, additional requirements from contractors who have been rejected in court have been included in the Riksrevision’s report. So here's a lot of things I could've seen the finger on, but we're going to go into it in detail today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1010	I thank you again for the answer. Equally fully, I assume that the Council of State takes the Riksrevision report very seriously and takes the necessary steps. It is not the first time that the State Road Administration is in the light of cost management. It is also not the first time a searchlight has been sent to the Directorate of Roads. We treated yesterday St.prp. No 70 for 2007-2008, on the T-link, which costs almost DKK 1.5 billion. The Quality Assurance Report, which we have subsequently received for the various projects, and which we also received for the project I refer to, says: ‘The Quality Assurance Team assesses the uncertainty of the cost estimate to be greater than the project itself has concluded.’; This seems to continue. It continues in entirely new projects — projects of a size of EUR 1.5 billion — where cost estimates seem to be optimistic. This suggests that there is still a lack of understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1022	Whether we look at closed road project statistics greater than 5 million. kr, which shows final costs on a country-by-country basis as a percentage of the original estimate of costs, we had a situation in 2001 where an actual figure was quite far above, at 13.2 pst. It went down in 2003, to 8.8 pst. It continued to decline in 2004, in 2005 and 2006, and is now at 2 pst. during the 2007 estimate of costs. What I'm saying is that in the State Road Service there is a continuous focus on cost management, and today one has a system that works. And then you'll see if one goes into the projects that the Riksrevision has taken up, that, among other things. has been breeded, which may result in additional costs. It has our demands from the entrepreneurs, but in the material there is that someone is rejected in court and someone is still being treated, so here one actually has to go in and see what's there. But the important thing is that I take this seriously. I've taken it up with the State Road Service. They are now working to get even better management, both in the projects and in the liquidation and termination of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1030	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «The largest forest fire in Norway's history in modern times started in the municipality of Fromand on Monday 9 June. It was already asked for helicopter assistance, but the answer was no. The fire wasn't priority, it was. The fire came out of control. Nearly 27 000 targets became the blast of flames in the Great Fire, which ran until Friday 13 June. Only then, but then too late, did you intervene with enough helicopters. The municipality of Fromand is now asking the state to contribute 10 million. to a fund for repatriation after damage to the main fire. What will the State contribute?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1039	I was in the Mykland area on August 29th this year and also got to be in the helicopter over the area. I knew the smell of fire. I met people who had stood by day and night. I'm impressed by the huge efforts of the locals. It is not difficult to understand their turbulence for the future. In a meeting with the municipality of Fromand I was briefed on the situation in the municipality and what plans are now in place. They want to do so, among other things. a repatriation fund of 10 million. kr from the country. I agree that the situation for Fromand is difficult, and that there may be a need for state aid. I have therefore been in contact with the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for the Environment. The government has not yet concluded about and in case we can help the municipality to the best possible extent. The questioner seems to suggest that the effort made by the forest fire helicopter would previously have limited the extent of the fire. Let me stress that the fire was caused by the rental at the place considered to be under control of day one, and the intervention team was discharged. The Ministry of Justice stated that there was a lack of follow-up work in combination with generally high forest fire hazards and heavy wind that caused the fire to have the opportunity to extinguish again, after he had been considered to be under control. When the fire at day two was reported out of control, both available forest fire helicopters were sent to Fromand. Thereafter, additional helicopter resources were taken in, and additional crews were put at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1050	I thank you for your answer. I could of course have wanted it to be clearer. I have to say it was a diffuse answer. I'm probably a little disappointed that the Council of State couldn't be more concrete. I would also like to remind the Council of State that the working group set up by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, published the report on forest fires in Mykland a few days ago. This report was very critical of the fire management in Mykland. The report also shows that a greater effort, as requested by the municipalities, would have significantly delimited the extent of the damage. But that did not happen, even though the rapporteur in Fromand asked for that. I hereby claim that it is clear that it has failed on the part of the central authorities in this matter, which means that the municipality will end up in a straitjacket. Let me ask the Council of State: does not the Council of State mean that it is a state responsibility to contribute to this matter? I believe that it was the central authorities that actually failed the most initially, which caused the damage to be so large.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1059	I do not know this report. I'll get into him. Let me stress that the contact between the spokesperson and central powers at that time was with other state councils. The report is under the Justice Minister, so I can't answer this right now, but I brought some sections after claims from the questioner. So I want to stress again that I see that there may be a need for government help. I had actually also hoped that I could now be more specific than I am, but I thought the questioner would be pleased that I am working on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1068	At least I am glad that the Council of State has not concluded, either in one direction or another. The rapporteur in Fromand, Sigmund Pedersen, as the Council of State knows from his own party, the Senterpartiet, has had a good communication with the Council of State. Governments know what this is all about. Then you can ask, why has it taken so long? It is clear that all the elements in this matter should be known to the Council of State through the channels she has to the municipality that this concerns. The promises the council gave when she visited the fire area this summer, were at that time very positive. Now, as I see it, they're not that positive anymore. You could ask, what's happened since the summer? Does not the Council of State realise that she places rapporteur Sigmund Pedersen from her own party, in a very difficult situation in this matter, after the promises made by the Council of State in fact so clearly this summer to give the municipality assistance in this difficult matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1077	It was strong to be in Fromand. It was also very useful, not least because I met people in the city who had both been and were committed to cleaning up the situation and putting the search light on the future. Then, of course, Fromand had the municipality, in conjunction with the county council, which is the government representative in East-Agder, the county council and others, even the need to spend some time, not least with regard to who would cover the expenditure already incurred, for example. to an inter-municipal fire protection system. There I think the peddling of Pedersen is well pleased with the involvement of the department and the county. It was the most important thing there and then. So now we're going to focus on the future, and we're going to have a job going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1087	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In a letter to the Ministry on 12 September, the County of Eastfold writes, among others: in the Råde kommune section: ‘The county has decided to set at 1 million. kr which is made depending on whether the Municipal Council decides to make better use of the entire income base of the municipality; [[...]] Does the Council of State consider this acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1096	In a letter dated 12 September from the County Council of Eastfold to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, it appears that the municipality of Råde has received 1.7 million. kr in skinners until next year. In addition, the county has seen 1 million. kr that the municipality can obtain under the given conditions. In a letter dated 23 November from the County of Eastfold to the Council, the statements are intended to allocate the additional funds. Here are the statements in point 2.2. of the Department's guidelines to the statesmen for the ham allocation quoted, and the counties summarise these as follows: «The expectation of the municipality of Råde is that the municipality should make more use of its income base or implement sound expenditure reduction measures. The municipality shall adopt an undertaking plan for conversion measures.’;» The municipality is not confronted with any absolute requirements for how to meet the county council's expectations. In this it is that no claim has been made to the municipality that they must introduce a property tax. It is the responsibility of local government for its own economy, which is also reflected in the Department's outlines for rail allocation. Local authorities must decide for themselves which means should be used to achieve the economic balance and good operation of the municipality. Property tax is a condition that the municipality can assess in line with other measures. The guidelines assessing tax income and other economic circumstances currently state the following: «The determination of the income-balancing grant is based on taxes paid and distributed in the tax accounts. Property taxes are not included in the tax income that forms the basis of the income-balancing grant. Also, tax revenue is not included in the calculation of the free income of municipalities. However, this does not prevent the county councillors from taking account of other types of income in the context of an overall assessment of the municipality’s economy. Citizens should be careful to allocate discretion to municipalities which do not exploit their own income base or which oppose the implementation of sound expenditure-reduction measures.» The Bondevik II government had the same wording in this part of the guideline, except for the sentence on income from taxes, which is new this year. In the section on «Communities with a difficult economic situation», the Bondevik II government had the following additions that have been drawn out later: «The county must not impose any requirement for the introduction of property taxes as a prerequisite for obtaining a discretionary grant.» For the sake of order, I would point out that, as the Council of State, I have made a single change to the policy, namely the quoted sentence on tax receipts. Let me add - one could start to wonder if I had not finished with this answer - that in order that there would be no doubt that the municipalities would have a real space for action in relation to what measures they would like to take, I would add the following to the guidelines of the members: ‘People shall assume that priority should be given to increasing revenue or reducing expenditure by each local government itself, as well as to sources of income which should be increased or which category should be reduced.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1132	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In principle, this question might have been drawn into the ordinary questioning procedure, since we had a round on this in the spontaneous questioning session. But I experienced through the spontaneous question hour that the confusion about what the council thought about this question was brought up to a higher level. Therefore, there was a need to implement this round in the ordinary Questionnaire as well. What remains after the answer to the Council of State is whether the Council of State crystal clear from the Spokesman's office can say and guarantee that none of the municipalities that refuse to impose property taxes refuse to increase or extend the property tax, will lose any discretionary means for 2009. Can the Council of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1139	Let me say that I am pleased that the representative Engeset kept up the question, because it was advisable this started, and it was good to be able to spend some more time on the answer, and thus also have the opportunity to site these guidelines so directly, which was not possible within the time we had at the end of the spontaneous question. In the case of tender for 2009, there is a first round of award. I don't see any reason why they'll be re-evaluated. So it's like the statesmen have some funds left. They are required to make an overall assessment after having had contact with each municipality. That means that when it applies to the part of the pot that the statesmen have left, I can't say how the funds are distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1146	On a very clear and simple question to answer, I find that the Council of State uses a lot of words, feels that in reality it is a sanctuary, that everything can still happen. When I used advice as an example, it was natural that there is a municipality in my own county. But I can inform the Council of State that it has not lacked examples from other municipalities and other counties – also the State Council's own county. Also, a number of other counties and municipalities around the country experience that they are put under an untimely pressure, where they are lured, threatened or pushed into taxing property. This I had believed that the Council of State, which belongs to a party flagging high that they are occupied by municipal autonomy, had been able to strike down immediately and say that this was not in line with her position and policy. But I note that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1153	In this case, I have actually been forced to use some words, because I feel that Right, with advice as the starting point for the question, has raised doubts about the county's guidelines and the government's handling from state to state. Let me stress again: it is local government that is responsible for its own economy. It also means that there are still local authorities to decide whether or not to introduce property taxes. Property tax is a voluntary tax. But then there are some municipalities that are in a difficult situation, and they ask about clients. I guess it's not like that from the Right's side either that they go away from the guidelines they were behind under the previous government, saying that there's a difference between a municipality that exploits its operating space on the income side or, if necessary, cuts costs, and a municipality that doesn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1172	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 8 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1187	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1193	I have a question for Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. ‘In Fredriksstad Blad on 14 October you can read that the Hospital Østfold has been examined in relation to suicide cases. The hospital has received strong criticism from the Health Inspectorate both in terms of the lack of competence of employees and the lack of risk assessment. It appears that there have been serious violations of health legislation, and so far this year the hospital has reported five suicides. The Chairperson states that the report is not a matter for the Governing Board. Will the Council of State ensure that the Management Board takes responsibility and follow up on this serious matter?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1202	I believe it is important that reports from the Health Authority are submitted to the boards of regional health companies and health companies in an appropriate manner. This is also conveyed as a management message in the business meetings of the regional health enterprises in 2007. The Managing Director of Health South-East RHF has informed me that the Hospital Østfold has established such a routine, that the results of the supervision of the Health Authority and other supervisory authorities are reported to the Management Board. The Management Board shall be given a routine overview of any non-conformities detected and whether the non-conformities in the event are closed. In the case of non-closed deviations, the Management Board will request action and follow-up until the deviations are closed. In the Management Board meeting on 13 October 2008, which appears to be the background to the issue in question, the Management Board considered, in line with its usual practice, two issues of this nature: the closure of the emergency reception deviations following the supervision of the Health Authority and the status of fire protection measures. The statement in Fredriksstad Blad to which Mr Giltun is referring probably stems from the fact that the journalist did not find the current supervisory report as a matter of concern in the Governing Board meeting on 13 October 2008. In a brief interview with the director, the director did not perceive that the journalist asked for the management of the current report of this supervision. Therefore, the Chairperson did not explain that the supervisory report in question, in accordance with the established procedure, would be reported to the Management Board. However, the director pointed out in the interview that he expected hospital management to have a plan for suicide prevention and measures to ensure implementation of the plan. The current question from Vigdis Giltun’s representative seems therefore to be based on a misunderstanding between the journalist and the director of the board about what the latter’s view of what should be presented to the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1213	I thank you for your answer. It might have been well and good if it was a misunderstanding. What was said, however, in Fredriksstad Blad, and I have not seen any dementia, is that the chairman confirms that he is informed about the report, but that he has not read it himself. He goes on to say when the journalist asks what he wants to do with the case, that he considers it important that the hospital should be a learning organisation, and that he expects them to have a plan – and a plan for how it should be implemented. That's what makes me ask the Council of State what role governments should have in following up matters. There have been many oversight cases in the last four years at the Hospital of Eastfold regarding suicide. It's been a follow-up, but the follow-up didn't lead to results. These are quite serious cases, not just in the case of suicide – one can also imagine all the patients who have not received the necessary follow-up. Why has the Governing Board not discovered this during its evaluations and follow-up meetings? That's what I'm asking for, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1224	As I see it, we disagree with the description of reality. The representative is based on a reality that we don't think exists. The reality is that supervisory reports are submitted to the Management Board. It is routinely established and the Management Board follows-up non-conformities reporting and requests non-conformities reporting until non-conformities are closed. It is not only governance practice in the Hospital Østfold HF, but in line with the directive we have given through our business meetings, which should be established procedures throughout Health-Norway. And that would just be missing -- I think the asker and I have exactly the same intentions. Then I feel that there is disagreement as to whether this is being practised, but both Health South-East and Hospital Eastfold have assured me that the procedures I am now describing are also established there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1231	I also thank you for that answer, but what worries me is that this has been going on for four years, and the deviations are clearly not closed. There are serious conditions when there are so many suicides, which may prove to be a cause of lack of competence, lack of risk assessment, etc. It's also a fact that there's a lot of coercion in psychiatry in Eastfold. This can also be evidence of a lack of competence. A year ago, I had a question to the then State Council, Brustad, about unannounced jobs. In the case of psychiatrists and psychologists at the Hospital Østfold, the number was 50 pst. of the posts unoccupied, and there was extensive use of temporary workers. Very many such things can lead to that service not as it should be. As I see it, at least the board cannot have followed up and evaluated along the way that the measures taken have worked. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1240	I agree with the questioner that the questions raised here are relevant – i.e., how does the board handle the deviations? How do you follow up? How have surveillance reports been followed up? How is deviation closed? What about the use of coercion in psychiatry in Eastfold? What about the lack of specialists in psychiatry, etc. in Eastfold? That's good questions. I do not have an answer to them today, because I have not been asked any questions about it today in the Questionnaire. We can come back to those questions, because they are important enough, but on the question I have been asked – whether there are routines in this field – the answer is yes, it does. Then we can probably discuss the second in a later question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1250	‘Young people with drug problems need more adapted treatment services. The Bergensklinikken Foundation has the opportunity to establish such offers quickly, but has received a refusal to do so from the Health West. According to the NRK, the Communication Director of Health Vest, Bjørg Sandal, has stated that this is due to the fact that ‘There is no need to strengthen offers with new private clinics, it needs to be strengthened indoors in hospitals’. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the Health West decision and its justification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1257	In connection with the question asked by Mr Sjöli, I have asked Health Vest RHF for a statement in relation to the quoted statement, in particular, and in relation to the treatment offer for drug addicts in the Health West in general. The answer from Health West is – and I quote when the answer I have received is: ‘Private institutions represent an important and major part of the multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug use in the Health West. Health West has annual discussions with these institutions within the agreements concluded where measures are also discussed to strengthen supply. Health West is, among other things, on the basis of such discussions, aware of the possibilities available to strengthen the supply of more than one institution. We are also familiar with the proposal to establish an offer at the Bergensklinikken Foundation for Young People. These proposals will be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary discussions, inter alia. based on the regional plan and national leadership. The proposal of the Bergensklinikken Foundation will thus be assessed together with other proposals. Health West has a major feature of private institutions. On the basis of the intention of the drug reform, inter alia: To strengthen the health services of drug users, Health West has also considered it important to strengthen the provision of services in health establishments. The goal is, among others: to achieve a good integration of drug-using competences and competences in the field of mental health protection and somatics. From the Health West side, the point is to strengthen the service in the rural area, both in own enterprises and through private institutions. It is desirable to create an overall good offer with good cooperation between the private institutions and the public. The development of the drug reform 01.01.04 shows that Health West has strengthened the offer both in the private institutions and in health companies. For the interview with communication director Bjørg Sandal, this is clipped and handled in an inexorable way by NRK Hordaland. This is recorded with NRK Hordaland. In the interview, it is underlined that Health West should strengthen the provision of healthcare companies while private actors will be important actors in the future. The question of financial support to the Bergen Clinics has also been answered in line with Health West's strategy in the interview. Review of the raw recording in conjunction with the contents of the news entry sent in NRK Hordaland shows that the editor made does not give a correct picture of the interview. It is recognised by the NRK.’ With that, I end the quotation from the Health West. I just want to say in the end that I hope with this that the representative Sjøli has received an answer to his question, and I can assure you that we have many of the same intentions. That is why I will also follow developments in the drug field carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1281	I would like to thank you for the answer, which I see as positive and clarifying in relation to the special situation that arose in the Health West, and which for the many addicts waiting in line, has been a desperate situation. We saw that when the Bergen Clinics actually had an opportunity to offer treatment to young drug users, it could be a good measure, which could expand capacity and enhance the quality of the services. Now about 4,000 drug addicts are waiting for treatment, and that waiting time has increased in recent years. Health South-East has cut out 69 treatment sites in private institutions, although the average waiting time for treatment has increased by more than two months, and no corresponding capacity has been built up under public authority. Is the Council also equally positive that one in other parts of the country, in regional health enterprises, can have an offer in cooperation with private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1288	I believe that the reality of drug treatment in Norway is that there are a good deal of private actors. There is a lot of good cooperation between health businesses and private actors, and that is what we are going to have in the future. But at the same time, I think it is very clear that there is a need to build up drug-related competences and drug treatment capacities in the public sector, not least on the basis of the reasoning that I quoted from Health West, that strengthening the competence and treatment capacity of our hospitals is also important, because it helps to improve the overall supply of drug users. For many drug users, mental illness, somatic problems, and the strengthening of drug-using skills in health firms also make the overall supply of hospitals better for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1293	In any case, I perceive that the Council of State is more positive than the former Council of State to have private items that may be both a corrective and a supplement to the public offer. I fully agree that we must build up and strengthen the public offer, precisely because there are complex disorders. Nevertheless, we are concerned that places will be closed when there are 4,000 queues that need treatment quite quickly. But, as I said, private people also stand for diversity. I think it is important to have more offers both public and private, and also more offers within the private sector for this group that need treatment. But at the end of the day, I just want to thank the Council of State, as I said, for taking such a positive view of the private feature, and for being able to make a good offer together with the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1298	I think we fully agree that the treatment capacity in the drug field is too poor. This is also the reason why the government is increasing its efforts in the drugs field by 300 million. kr next year. So since the government took over, we've strengthened the roughness by almost 700 million. kr. And of the 300 million. over half of the kr should go to treatment capacity, i.e. to strengthen the treatment capacity of health establishments. Then I agree that it is demanding in a situation where there is a lack of space, while at the same time completing some of those places. But I'm very concerned that that's right. For the answer is not necessarily the most possible space – we could get that for a cheap money. The challenge is as good as possible places, which provide treatment, and which give results. Therefore, at the same time, we need to rebuild a new plant, dry to liquidate something that does not work well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1308	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The Data Protection Authority carried out in spring 2008 checks related to the handling of personal and health data in the National Information System for Patient Transport [[NISSY]] What will the Council of State do to ensure that regional health businesses respect the applicable data protection rules?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1317	It is an important question that the representative for wages and salaries addresses. The transport of patients is a statutory task for regional health companies under the Patient Rights Act § 2–6 and the Special Health Service Act § 2–1a. For the patient, both direct and individual settlements are made by reimbursement of transport costs. Direct settlement shall be made directly between the carrier and the health undertaking, while reimbursement shall be made on an individual basis after the journey has been made. Direct settlement is currently being addressed through the National Information System for Patient Transport, i.e. NISSY. Health South-East RHF v/ Ullevål University Hospital is the system owner for NISSY. The Data Protection Authority pointed out in its assessment that there was a lack of data processing agreements required by Section 18 of the Health Register Act. Norwegian Healthnet AS, which operates NISSY, has now entered into a data processing agreement with all healthcare companies that have a driving and/or settlement office. This shall ensure the proper use of NISSY and the establishment of procedures to ensure that patient information is handled in accordance with the provisions of the Health Register Act. As we see it, this will also reflect the data protection assessment that Health South-East RHF has instructed underlying healthcare companies to use schemes that are contrary to current legislation. I have been in contact with Health South-East who is now working to close the deviations that have been pointed out by the Data Protection Authority. Several of the conditions mentioned have already been corrected and plans are in place for when and how to close the remaining deviations. This has also been notified to the Data Protection Authority. The Ministry is now in dialogue with the Data Protection Authority to clarify whether the information to be processed in the context of patient transport settlement is to be considered as health information and should therefore be established as a health record. In this case, the Health Register Act will apply to the use of NISSY. It will also be assessed whether such a register should be established under concession. It is important to me that patient information is treated in a good and reassuring way. This also applies to information recorded in NISSY, even if it is not considered to be particularly sensitive – it concerns the birth number, name, destination and delivery address. It is important that the information is not retained beyond what is necessary for the management of patient transport and excesses. Other encrypted birth numbers are stored. I am very concerned that privacy and professional secrecy are well cared for in the health sector. NISSY records limited information on each patient, but its management, both at the system owner, operator and at the data controller, must be sound. The Ministry will, once the Data Protection Dialogue has been concluded, follow up the case with relevant initiatives towards Health South-East RHF.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1330	I thank the Council of State for a detailed and detailed response and am pleased that he is taking the challenge very seriously. Of course, it is possible to say, as the Council of State does, that normally this kind of information will not be particularly sensitive. But at the same time, it has to be seen in the eyes that knowledge that named patients are transported over time to certain treatment sites allows the unauthorised person to draw conclusions about the patient’s diagnosis, to make assumptions about it and to circulate rumors. So in given circumstances, this is clearly personal information. Would the Council of State be able to guarantee that the measures he has asked Health South-East to take will be in place within a reasonably short period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1339	I agree with the representative, Wohnning, that although what is registered here is not very sensitive information in itself, there is nevertheless every reason to pay attention to the information, and that is exactly what I am trying to express that we have. I have not been given any more details about the time when you expect to be able to complete the dialogue we are now doing with the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Therefore, I have to ask to come back to the representative with an assessment of the time perspective. But I assume that it happens without delay, that it happens as soon as possible. But the definition of the term ‘as quickly as possible’ must then be allowed to come back to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1346	I thank you for your answer. I've read the Data Protection report, and it's a pretty strong diet. Data protection is very cumbersome in the points where it is pointed out that the conditions of the legislation are not met. On the one hand, things have been done that are directly contrary to existing legislation. In view of the experience gained in this matter, which I then expect will be corrected as quickly and effectively as possible, will the Council also consider more generally going out to healthcare with a reminder that the legislation in this area is to be complied with, and that it is not acceptable not to be careful to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1355	My general impression is that health care establishments, hospitals and the healthcare system as a whole are concerned with the issues raised by Wage, but it may well be that Wage has a point that it should be pointed out and underlined. I would like to take along that call from Wage and ask if we should, and in that case how we can send that signal out again to Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1364	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘In Norway, we need a modern and functional training centre for police. Since the Oslo Police Department, most of the heavy operative units such as the emergency team, the bombing team and the police helicopter to name someone, such a facility should be located in Oslo. It's been talking about it for a long time, and as far as I'm aware, most of it's planned. What remains is to grant funds and start setting up. Does the Council see the need for such a centre, and when is it possible to start construction?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1373	In the planning of a new base for police helicopter services in Oslo, Oslo Police District has also set in motion the planning of a co-location of police helicopter services, the emergency team and an operational training centre. I understand the need for such co-location and also the need for all the elements of such co-location – in response to the first question. Currently, the police are in dialogue with State Building on the acquisition of land/development. We are talking here about a significant investment or increased rental costs, which will have to be incorporated into future budgets. From the department it is a prerequisite that the establishment of helicopter base comes in the first stage of construction. It is therefore not possible today to say an exact time for any construction start for the different parts of the project before Stadsbyg has provided clarifications. In my opinion, it is important that the police have good practice and training conditions. Expenditure needs to be looked up to other police needs. I can therefore not say anything concrete about progress now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1380	I must say that, with respect to reporting, I am disappointed with the answer. The Council of State is otherwise reasonably clear in the case of e.g.: the queue and the ambition there. So here's one of the most important tools that the police need. It doesn't have the same priority at the Council of State, but I take note of that. I think the Council of State should consider another element of this, and that is the vulnerability of today's location in Oslo. So it is that a single vehicle can stop the exit from the police station in Oslo. It has just been an example today of a truck that was stuck and blocked the centre police station. I assume that when the Council of State assesses the establishment of a new centre, vulnerability should also be a factor in the whole, not least in the light of the experience of the NOKAS-ran – the police in Stavanger was barred from one vehicle on which it was set fire. In that way, I had hoped that the Council of State would have a little more ambition. It's okay to wait for State Building. But can it be understood that when the plans from State Building are available, will the Council of State immediately put the spade in the ground – as was done in a Nordic municipality for some time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1387	I like to put the shovel in the ground, and we've done that to the greatest extent in the field of justice. But we're dependent on going some processes to get to know the first where we're going to put the spade in the ground, and then how much it costs to put the spade in the ground. So I am glad that the Justice Spokesman of the Advance Party sees that we have built the reconciliation queue and that we have really shown that we have been able to put the shovel in the ground and build 400 new prison sites. When it comes to this particular issue, I just have to repeat that we also see the need for this, in particular against the plans that you have, and the needs you have, with regard to the police helicopter service and the possibility of co-location. Then I have to come back both in the budgetary process and in other contexts too and say something more about concrete progress when it has become more concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1394	I should like to thank you for this answer, and I hope that the Council of State agrees with me that this is a very important matter. The Council of State took part in a decision in this Chamber on police helicopters and locating in central Oslo on 16 May 2002. Six and a half years have passed, so we are still struggling with the efficiency and use of one of Europe’s most advanced police helicopters – not least based on localisation, which has been a problem. I hope it gets better. The next hope is that the Government has ambitions to use the same tools and to reduce their vulnerability, cf. the current situation with respect to e.g.: the location of the standby team. At the same time, there should be an ambition for the Government to set up a training centre. I have registered that the state council has been at Fornebu and looked at the temporary plant you have out there, and I believe that you should have greater ambitions than that. Because when we look at what the Swedes have done in terms of training facilities, it's miles ahead of what we have. I would argue that in Norway we have an economy that makes it possible, and I think it will also be involved and contribute as a positive element in recruiting the police... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1403	I very much agree with Mr Ellingen on the need. We now have great opportunities for action against the police, both in terms of staffing, education and new premises in the future of the Police College. And then this comes in with police helicopters, which it is therefore absolutely necessary to go through, even if I am not going to assume responsibility – prior to my government council – for why that matter was in dire waters. But it is known that there have been many discussions about localization, which is probably something outside my area of influence. But I take with me the invitation from the representative that this should be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1411	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Sometimes, there has been a strong focus on the Oslo Police crew situation and what needs to be done in the future, while the same focus has been only slightly linked to the serious situation in the district. As an example, I would like to refer to a review of the requirements of 24 and 25 October, where it appears that during the weekend before there was only one police officer on duty in the Kristiansund area. This meant that they were too few to move out. Such situations create uncertainty in the population. What will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1420	The Ministry of Justice is currently working on – and has done so for a long time – both resources and framework conditions that will meet the needs of the public for service and preparedness. That's why we've increased the police budget to next year by 789 million. Nominal crowns and a real increase of over 200 million to the police. kr. The Directorate of Police has investigated the training and staffing needs of police and county officials, both in terms of police-trained personnel and other trained personnel, up to 2020. It is proposed to establish 2 700 new police posts and 1000 other police posts in the period up to 2020. With the 2009 draft budget, the Government follows up these recommendations, including: by increasing the high-record number of 552 students in police high school — under the previous government the figure was 240. If we had had the high level of police higher education then, we probably had 600-700 additional police officers during this four-year period, among others. to the districts. I remember that, especially directed at those who were in the government then. I believe that the Progress Party is largely free of its back when it comes to this particular question. In addition to increasing the recording at the Police College, we are working to better organise the police. Trained police officers need to become more active, and the tasks that can equally be performed by civilians should be carried out by civilians. The Directorate of Police has launched a number of actions, including: Recruitment of personnel with other education, such as detainees — which we now employ in several districts — to release police officers from police duties. At the same time, we are working on measures to keep older policemen out of work. With regard to the manning situation in the Kristiansund area, the Police Directorate informs that Kristiansund Police Station has been conducting a lot of operational training during the past few weeks on the introduction of new weapons of service. In periods of extensive internal training, it may at times be difficult to fill all service lists. In addition, when sick leave arises, there may be cases where one is dependent on orders to maintain a good level of preparedness. Furthermore, the Police Directorate confirms that Kristiansund Police Station was staffed with an official on Saturday, 18.09. 8 a.m. 1800-2130 and Sunday 19.09.08 hrs. 1600-2200. The reason was sick leave and no other officials were available for order — which is an opportunity for the police chief. Usually it is not a problem to order overtime officials, but we have recently seen policemen want to protect their spare time. It is important to stress that during the time of one-man security guard at Kristiansund Police Station, there were several officers on guard in the Molde region who would provide police district assistance if the need had arisen. It's not that long since I was in Kristiansund, so at the same time, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to commend especially local authorities for good crime prevention in the area. Among other things, by shutting down food serving in a kiosk at a gas station in Kristiansund, violent crime was significantly reduced. Wide and powerful crime prevention efforts depend on good local cooperation. It is also an important way to save police resources. The situation in the police has been a challenge for years, simply because it has been trained for a few policemen. In the autumn, the situation has worsened significantly because police officers seem to have decided to protect their leisure time by not taking on overtime shifts voluntarily. Despite a time-consuming operating situation in the police and officers' seats, we have a police officer here in Norway who is doing a great job. We have a police force with a good education and a high level of competence. In several important areas, inter alia: in the Kristiansund region, crime is heading in the right direction, and we have a police force that therefore has great confidence in the population. I am also pleased that we will be able to harvest the fruits of increased admissions at the Police College last year and in the current year – which, fortunately, the Progress Party has also been and supported. So we have a record record of 432 students, and we're going to go on. This means that we will next have 100 additional police officers, and they will be employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1443	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Of course, I'm aware that the Minister of Justice is working on these things every day to get new students, higher admissions, etc., and to get better arrangements in place. What worries me is that the debate you have in this room is very often about the central eastern region, about Oslo and the special metropolitan problems we have. I want through this question to focus on how it actually is in the districts. The station manager in Kristiansund says, among other things: in Tidens Krav Friday, 24 October, that there are problems getting the watch lists to go up. Of course, it is because policemen take less time on a voluntary basis. My question to the Council of State is: When the new students come into practice and you can start harvesting the fruits of what you've done, will the Council of State much more facilitate the conditions so that more of these ports in the districts and not be "caught" by airports and the Oslo area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1452	My answer to that is unequivocally yes. We need to do this in many areas, primarily by bringing up students at the Police College, making the police districts and local communities simply send their own, which is coming back. I believe that the representative Nesvik is raising a very important issue about districts and cities in terms of police resources. It is high time for this debate to rise. That's what I'm saying first and foremost because we have too much focus on the Oslo region in terms of police resources. It is a police district that has increased its budgets over the last eight years from just under a billion dollars to now close to NOK 1.7 billion. The time has come to focus more on the manpower situation of the districts, not least because of the need for additional staffing due to, among other things. quite woody infrastructure, long distances and longer response time than what we experience in Oslo. So I hope that when we reach, among other things. will have students out in practice, it will benefit the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1463	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What's quite obvious, and what worries me about the low manning, is that everyday crime is suffering. The priority must then be much stronger, and trust — if you need help — goes down. That trust relationship is absolutely something that we are very dependent on to have a good offer to the population, and the interaction between the audience and the police is highly dependent on the best possible. One of the things that comes up very often is – and the council itself was involved – that if you only have one police officer in Kristiansund, you have the Molde region to play on. It takes approx. 40 minutes to drive to Molde, and then both thieves and others may have come far above all the piles before you possibly come. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State also look at the size of the variable unit costs in the police? It's a recurring topic, and that's where you put the extra costs in terms of overtime and some other things. Will the Council of State help us to increase appropriations for variable unit costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1474	It is the Police Directorate who distributes these funds, but it is done by a key – it is the so-called Fürst and Höverstad report that underlies it. We now have a review of how we distribute the funds. I'm going to bring with me the aspect that the representative Nesvik brings up here, because I think it's more important than ever. If we are to maintain trust, which is also the responsibility of the representative, we are totally dependent on the presence of the police around the whole country, not just in the press areas, where crime – I was talking about tabloidism – seems to be the best. At the same time, I just need to stress that in terms of everyday crime and also more serious crime, it is amazing that Kristiansund has managed to significantly reduce the crime of violence. I mean to remind – subject to – that the reduction was about 30 pst. by taking preventive action. Clearly, it is important that we in the region feel that such a serious crime is falling so significantly. The best thing is to create societies that have less crime and less need for police. I believe that Kristiansund should have more police officers, but at the same time they are also making good preventive efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1486	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In written question No. 1539 for 2007-2008, the Council of State replied that there were no professional or other considerations that are so important that the location of the Court of Justice in Søndre Vestfold needs to be re-examined. The professional evaluation concluded that Larvik was best suited. Economic considerations made the elections Sandefjord. Now the premise of the Storting decision has completely changed, and the economy of the two options is the same. Why will the Council of State not give Stortinget the opportunity to assess the matter on the appropriate professional basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1495	In its decision of 21 May 2001 on the reduction of the number of courts in the first instance, from 92 to 66 – and this was in 2001, so it is a long way back – the decision to merge Larvik District Court and Sandefjord District Court to new Sørdre Westfold District Court. The Storting decided that Søndre West District should be located in Sandefjord. As I explained in my answer on 24 September 2008 to written question No. 1539 from the representative Anundsen, I cannot see that there are any professional or other reasons that are so important that we should now launch a new localization process of the new Søndre Vestfold district court, seven years after the Stortinget decided that the court should be localized to Sandefjord. One of the main arguments for structural reform, as mentioned in my previous reply, was the desire for major courts, including: in order to ensure professional quality and to improve resource utilisation. Other considerations that were considered included: travel time, regional development in the district and the premises of the courts. That's how I see there's no weighty argument now that suggests that Larvik appears to be a better alternative than Sandefjord. However, in the context of this assessment, that the extension of Sandefjord District Court premises no longer appears to be a valid option and that new premises for the new Sandefjord Court are likely to have to be provided, I would again stress that this would also be the situation if the Court had been decided to locate Larvik. Against this background, I believe that no new case or proposal should be promoted for the Stortinget on the changed location of Søndre Vestfold District Court. This judicial reform was, of course, a major issue involving many courts. Many people might want to change their mind about this, but I can't see that there's any basis for going into it either in this case or in other cases at the present time. I also believe that, in my view, the administration of the Court of Justice implements the structural changes in a good and efficient way in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1510	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm basically a little surprised. The professional assessment in the Norwegian public investigation was unambiguous and unanimous in the view that Larvik was the best professional choice. But in the news, the department recommended Sandefjord. The reason for this was as follows: ‘If the merged court is located in Sandefjord, it will be possible to carry out the merger with an extension of the existing premises. If the court is located in Larvik, new premises will have to be acquired. The Ministry has therefore chosen, on this basis, ‘to propose Sandefjord as the seat of a merged court’. Now this is old stuff, and it's happened a lot. One of the things that's happened is that the economic advantage Sandefjord had is gone. Larvik and Sandefjord are now equally economical, while professional Larvik was preferred seven years ago – and Larvik may still be. The starting point is that, when such premises are changed, the decision of the Grand Duchy should be able to be reformed. It is also the case that the administration of the Court of Justice in Eastfold and Telemark allows such a change and has taken the initiative to make such a change. Why does the Council of State not want to be involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1524	I maintain my answer to this. An assessment is carried out in a very broad reform – geographical and otherwise – it takes time to implement the reform and it is carried out in a stage-by-stage manner. I think you should be very careful to open that whole discussion again. First of all, this could mean that we have a lot of discussions here in Stortingen – the more representatives have raised questions about the court that is closest to where you live. So I'd like as much as I can, advise not. The second thing is that when time goes by, you realize that it is the place that has been chosen, that will be the solution to this particular court. For this reason, it is appropriate to have very important arguments in order to reverse such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1529	I thank you again for the answer, but I wasn't particularly excited. I just want to make it clear that the premise that I have raised the question is not that I will necessarily have the location to Larvik, but that the best professional and financial location should be chosen. As the Council of State itself says, these decisions are seven to eight years old, and they are based on a basis that may have changed. Now, when we get completely new premises seven years later, and the implementation of the location has come no further than what it is in Søndre Vestfold, it is completely incomprehensible to me that not the Council of State believes it is right to have a new, professional review of where this court should be placed. Perhaps today's conclusion is different from that of a unanimous structural committee seven years ago. But the premises are now different. There are important arguments, the courts look different, and the whole main argument for which the Stortinget was presented, and on which the Stortinget based its decision, is now turned upside down. I find it hard to understand that the Council of State does not take this more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1536	Now the questioner is moving in the direction of not concluding that the other place would be the best, but says that the situation is such that you should have a new process around it. It gives me an even better reason to say that there are no relationships around this situation, neither here nor anywhere else, that should mean that we just have to open the process and the discussion around it, to possibly fall into the same solution that you chose seven years ago. I think you should have reinforced arguments for having to go into it. So I'm maintaining the answer I've now given for the third time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1551	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1564	This question has been drawn. We go back to question 8, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development. The question is answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1572	‘If global environmental work is to deliver desired results, it is important to avoid national framework conditions that simply shift emission sources to other countries. The working party announced in a press release on 21 August 2008 that ‘there shall be no free CO2 emission allowances after 2012’. On the other hand, the EU will have a significant allocation of free climate allowances to its industry. Thus, Norwegian industry will have its competitive conditions greatly aggravated. Can the Council of State ensure that the Government does not work towards the strange line Workers' Party has announced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1579	The Government is working to sell a maximum share of allowances for the activities subject to allowances beyond 2012. In this way, the allowance system will respect the polluter-pays principle. I will further refer to Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007 on changes to the Climate Change Allowance Act, also referred to by Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre in Stortinget on 24 October, where it states: ‘The government will work to ensure that the EU ETS is based on the fact that no allowances are allocated free of charge after 2012. Therefore, Norwegian enterprises subject to allowances cannot rely on the allocation of free allowances beyond 2012. However, this will need to be assessed in the light of EU policies in this area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1587	I thank you for your answer. What I want the Council of States to be clearer is what line Norway will take in relation to the EU. Will this be the best way to auction away, be independent of the EU, or will you actually try to stay close up? I agree that it is okay to have a tight regime to cut emissions. However, the important thing must be to avoid carbon leakage by providing the industry in Norway with such high costs as to reduce it, or at least avoid reinvesting, and to reoccur in the EU or at the worst in China. For Norwegian industry are among the most environmentally friendly in the world. It has already used the most widely available technology. There is not much to get in the short term by being strict in Norway. But by moving abroad you get everything from a quadrupling to a three-time doubling of CO2 emissions, depending on what industrial activity you're talking about. That is why I would like clarification from the Council of States: If you want to stay up to what the EU is doing, or if you want to try to be more stringent than the EU, regardless of... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1597	As I said, what is important now is that we work for a system after 2012, both in Norway and in the EU context, where quotas should be sold as much as possible. For Norwegian enterprises, this means that they have to assume that there will be no free allocation but that allowances will be sold after 2012. Then it is that, when the EU has finally agreed to its system, the framework for its quota system, we have to come back to making the necessary assessments of how to set up our own system here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1604	The problem with the political debate is often that you do not understand the realities that business needs to deal with. I've been visiting several industrial companies all over the country for the past few weeks. Many of them have large industrial investments that they want to make in the next few years. But without fundamental clarifications about framework conditions, they don't dare. Finnfjord melting plants in Troms are one example of investing for billions of dollars, but they need to know that in principle Norway will work for the same framework conditions as abroad. The approach taken by the Government here, which is based initially on paying for all emissions — while it is known that in the EU at least 80 pst are charged. free of charge – does not provide the prima facie clarification. The fact that the government says it will come back to this in 2013 or 2012, does not give the clarification that you want. I want to get a very clear answer here: If you want to get on the line of the European Union in principle, or if you want to say as a starting point that you have to pay for everything, is it possible to change your mind if the European Union does not follow the Norwegian line? It's a very important clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1609	It is such that the framework for the EU’s long-term system is not finally defined. But both we and a lot of other jobs for a system where quotas are going to be sold as much as possible. It will be the most efficient system and the most efficient market. It will be what is largely based on an important principle, which is otherwise widely negotiated, i.e. that the prioritizer has to pay. Therefore, Norwegian enterprises must not assume that it will be free allocation after 2012. That is what we are working for vis-à-vis the European Union, too. Then, of course, we have to come back, once the EU has finally established the framework for its system, to how we are going to finalise our system in Norway. But the starting point is that one does not have to assume that there will be free allowances after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1616	We go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1622	I will address the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘On the TV 2 news on 16 October, the Council of State held an interview on special education in the municipality of Lunner. The municipality must cut costs. The rapporteur stressed that the municipality should run a school in line with the law, but the Council of State helped to raise doubts about this. The municipality of Lunner has had an offer of special education in the youth sector in addition to what is required by law and carefully assesses its actions. Was the Council of State in contact with the municipality to inform himself about the situation before he commented on TV 2?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1631	My comments in the TV 2 news on the occasion at hand gave the obligation that all municipalities have to provide the special education that is required by law. It's extremely important. Unfortunately, we know that too many elephants are not granted their statutory right to special education, and someone has to stand up for them and make it crystal clear. The comments were not directed at the specific budgetary situation in the municipality of Lunner, and I had not been in contact with the municipality on this matter. I can't see that the comments would lead to doubt, rather the opposite. What I was busy about was pointing out that it is important for all the elephants who need it to receive the special education they are entitled to under the training law. I also said that in my comments, and I think on the contrary made it clearer that one must comply with the law. The right to special education that students have cannot be ignored, and the content of special education should not be reduced because of, for example: missing coverage in municipal budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1638	I have seen the entry several times, and I think there is little doubt that there is any doubt as to whether the municipality will comply with the law. The Council of State and I fully agree that we should have a tougher follow-up to what is actually required by law, even in the case of special education. But the municipalities are also required to adapt to an economy within the limits they actually experience. Here it was a municipality where the rapporteur stood and guaranteed that that adaptation would not be at the expense of what was required by law. I think it's a rather important distinction in our way of driving society that municipalities have both a right and a duty to adapt as they find it most sensible, as long as they don't break the law. That is what I reacted to when the Council of State was out commenting. I want him to clear it up for the future, so that you don't help to doubt what's going on in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1647	Of course, it would be totally undisputed for me to interfere in the budgetary procedure in a municipality in Norway, because it is a local responsibility. What, on the other hand, is my responsibility to involve me in, and what I think is important, is that all the elephants in Norway who are entitled to special education should have their right to do so. I want to use every opportunity to continue making it as crystal clear as possible, because I think it's a censure that rarely reaches both local politicians, parents and young people themselves. Secondly, I would also like to say from this that there will often be a need for more than the minimum provision required by law to ensure that the provision of special education is good. I would like to encourage you to evaluate it and make it as good as possible – even in addition to what is required by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1656	So I'm satisfied with the answer. But the Minister of Knowledge also knows that in Norwegian school we have a major challenge in finding new solutions for just special education. We've focused a lot on this with early efforts, that you might have to give special education a lot earlier. There is a great deal of creative power in the many municipalities around the country, and again it is important that the Council of State sees the difference between commenting on matters that violate the law and the conditions in which the municipalities adapt within their degree of freedom – the freedom that the law gives. It was to take up what I thought was a little overstepping towards the municipality of Lunner in relation to just the degree of freedom the municipalities should have to adapt their services, I asked questions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1663	I just pointed out what the law says and that it has to be followed. And I will continue to do that. So I couldn't agree more that we have to make a better early effort. The red-green government has a completely different way than before in Norway. There is now a big message for treatment in the Storting, where we notify what has already been presented in the budget. There will be DKK 1 billion for the municipalities next year, for several teachers and other educators in the first to fourth classes in Norwegian and mathematics, and for mandatory screening tools when reading the first school years. In addition, it is an obligation for municipalities to have a quality report that reviews the quality of training; it is a teacher education that should focus on early follow-up – not to mention what happens before school starts, that we have now had a kindergarten revolution. That year I was born, in 1971, went under 3 pst. of the children of Norway in kindergarten. Now it's 95 pst. of those who begin school, who have the professional and social basis. This is early work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1670	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1677	Due to a lack of communication, a permit application was ignored at the start of the meeting. It has to be voted on, so I ask the representatives to take their seats before we go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-05.ana.ud1323e1706	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
