ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e49	The representatives of Vera Lightcloth, Laila Davøy and Tord Lien, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e64	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the current week - and considers it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week. The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e73	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I have the honour to propose a police study to build a larger police force in the fight against crime in the community, nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e78	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on today's map has been completed. - No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e96	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 60 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e105	Veterinary training and the future link of the veterinary environment have been a hot topic for many years. There's a lot of reasons for this. There is a large undercapacity in education for veterinarians in Norway. The annual need is about twice the capacity of 60 veterinarians that we have today. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that a training capacity of 90, as proposed by the Ministry, is a reasonable future level. This is assumed to give a coverage of approx. 75 pst. of expected needs. This increase in the number of students and the fact that the clinical situation at today’s veterinary high school is critical in relation to modern requirements make investment needs high and clarification is needed. It is a major strategically important decision for the veterinary environment to be taken. The future development of education and the environment will be influenced by the solution chosen. There is considerable consensus that the environment is too small to continue as a self-contained, independent environment. Therefore, the projected growth rate we are dealing with today has been both notified and awaited for a long time. The choice has been narrowed to stand between further developing the veterinary environment based on today's location at Adamstuen and a merger with the University of Oslo, or moving to and merging with the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås. This is therefore about locating an environment within the press area of the Oslo region. This is not district policy. There also appears to be a strong consensus that the government's assumption that Norway's veterinary high school and the Veterinary Institute are to be held together as a single environment is sensible and desirable. In the right, however, we find it highly critical that the Veterinary Institute is hardly mentioned or has been heard as an independent environment in the process. This is not good. It is also agreed that the Government has not presented the Stortinget to either the cheapest or the most economically profitable decision. If what the Government wants to join, society and the higher education sector are charged an estimated extra cost of 1,214 million. kr. The government says in the proposition that «Societal economics is location on Ås and co-organisation with UMB not the most profitable option, also in assessments where the sal value of the property on Adamstua is included». When this is said, I also think one has summarized what there is agreement on in this case. From the Right, we believe that there is an eye-catching thin proposition presented in such an important matter, and it bears the mark that there is a horse trade within the Government and not the best of the veterinary environment that is in focus. The figures and analyses referred to are partly years old. The cost estimates reflect, we suspect, not today's cost level, and the case leaves behind expert opinions that crack. The majority of expert opinions are for a merger with the University of Oslo. To be a matter of great strategic importance, there are too many questions and issues that have not been answered or addressed with this proposition. The most serious thing about the whole thing is that the government presents a «solution» to the Storting without itself taking any consequences of its own decision. The consequences and the bill are sent to a future government on a very thin basis. One sells this in as if NVH and VI were to be moved to UMB at Ås, and one of the expectations, of course, is that something should happen. If you want to stick to what's in the proposition -- and you should probably -- it's not going to happen especially in years. You put the entire veterinary environment on hold. The government says that ‘realisation of new building mass at Ås will not change the government’s prioritisation of new buildings in the university and higher education sectors’. This gives many reflections. It would have been a lot of noise for those who are already prioritized, if you had touched this priority. With today's allocation rate, there are many years until construction can begin. In addition, it seems that in this way it has been possible to protect the decision of a debate on how this will actually affect all the other, provisionally unpriority building needs in the sector. It's obvious that an extra cost of SEK 1.2 billion -- and I repeat: as we in the Right Fear will be much higher -- will shift other needs far into the future. Debates such as this one have been able to go straight down on the details. Then you lose the strategic. The government presents us with a decision that is not the most economical and not the most socio-economic solution. Then it should be crystal clear and unambiguous that you have a solution that is professionally and strategically best. You don't either. Looking at this historically, there is little doubt that a move to UMB at Ås 20 years ago would have been considered natural. Ten years ago, some forces might have called out a warning. Today, the majority of the veterinary community, whether at the NVH/VI itself or at the Veterinary Association, is opposed, and in eight to ten years, when this movement is to be implemented, perhaps no one will understand it. I have therefore tried to understand the development of the veterinary profession. The strategic element in the decision and the long-term crucial issue is whether veterinary training and the environment are to be medically oriented or production-oriented. Underlying this lies the important central issues of society such as how we best achieve food security and preparedness in relation to public health, etc.. When the Food Authority was located in Adamstien, proximity to VI was an important argument. Now we move without commenting on this in a word. It's a paradox. The historical trend is clear: the veterinary profession is in the medical and diagnostic direction. Among newly trained veterinarians, no more than 15 to 20 veterinary students could expect to work within the livestock segment. The rest will work on everything from public health and food security to the family and sports animal segment. The forward projections suggest that this number might go even lower. If this is the case, the only sensible decision today will be to secure the NVH/VI place on the building priority list in the UH sector, and then to present the Stortinget for an updated strategic and cost impact assessment on the day of the preparation of the decision. Given the indicated needs for scientific equipment, maintenance and investment in construction, it is striking how little one belongs to the rest of the sector in relation to this decision. Is there a belief that a sareptac truck will show up at some point in the future here? Instead, the majority in their comments do almost everything wrong. Expert selection can be used in so many ways. The Norwegian Committee is quoted many times in this case. What is not quoted by the majority is that the Norum Committee also said that, at the same time as a decision had to be taken, ‘obligatory and tight allocation plans’, and that organisational coordination had to take place quickly. This, of course, reflects the complexity of merger processes. The repellents are always there, and they will thrive in unsolved waters. Instead, the majority's comments go in the opposite direction. It is repeated that the institutions should continue as independent institutions and further tighten it up by saying that "it is assumed that veterinary training continues as an overall professional training course". Furthermore, the majority refers to letters from the Ministry and says that the institutions should enter into the co-organisation in a constructive way. Of course, with respect to reporting, another assumption would be pointless. The majority also refers to the fact that ‘the coordination is to be led by an interim board which has confidence and legitimacy in all the established professional environments’ — well maintained, but this concerns many charged concepts such as ‘equivalent’, ‘trust’ and ‘legitimite’. When you start making decisions and actions that affect people's everyday lives, I fear that this interim regime will either be what is called in English 'alame duck' - that is, to nothing more than adornment - or take power in your own hands, and then the conflicts will come. A waiting time of eight to ten years until the environments actually start to work together is an eternity when you're dealing with such processes. The risk is evident that today’s strong and vital veterinary environment is becoming confused and fragmented in the process. It is not natural to conclude in a case that has such a strategic importance for several environments when the case base and analyses are deficient. That's them in this case. That reference is made to the fact that answers have been received through questions from the Committee to the Ministry supplementing part of this is not satisfactory risk factors and analyses cracking in several directions, and we know that the majority of expert opinions are moving towards co-ordination with the UiO. Therefore, I would like to take up the Right's proposal for a decision and recommend that the Storting go to send the matter back to the Government, but on the condition that the NVH/VI environment is placed on the Government's building investment priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e136	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e139	Today we are dealing with a matter which, in my view, is a very important and joyful matter. Finally, the Stortinget may decide on the location of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute after several years of investigations and uncertainty as to location. Today, we are choosing co-location with the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås, showing an offensive commitment to veterinary education and research in Norway. In this way, we get a bigger and more robust research environment and a stronger educational institution. It is a forward-looking decision that gives us an integrated university and a compact biological research environment, which is new in Norway. We often talk hot about interdisciplinary and holistic thinking. At Ås we have the opportunity to create such an environment with food, health and the environment in focus. We get a strong professional environment that will continue to be good applicants for research funding nationally and not least in relation to the 7th EU Framework Programme, where we would like our research communities to lead. If our research communities are to compete internationally, we need to provide more robust environments that are attractive to researchers from both Norway and other countries. And that's exactly what we're doing now in moving the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås. This has been and is a demanding process for many. Mergers of environments and not least the transfer of institutions are demanding. There is considerable uncertainty in the professional community that is being affected. I have great respect for this -- also that all kinds of arguments are used to express the uncertainty and skepticism you have. The trade environments in the Adamstudio, for which I have the greatest respect, have also expressed fear that the direction and focus they focus on in their work will change when they are combined with an environment that focuses on other directions. The environment at the Veterinary Institute is afraid that the search light should be turned away from biomedicine to bioproduction and has also indicated that it is becoming more difficult to deal with infection by moving from Oslo to Ås. We take all such concerns seriously. The majority of the Committee has also made it clear that, when the new university is to be planned and built, it is important that all parties become equivalent to the process. Only in this way will we take care of all professional aspects and create a new university that will focus on education and research that ensures food safety and animal health in the future as well. There are many new challenges to safe food that change the content of food science and veterinary education. In particular, recent international food scandals have resulted in high attention being paid to food security work. I believe that a collection of strong trade unions at Ås will help further strengthen knowledge of the context and the whole in the production of food - whether it is meat, fish or plant production. The most important thing is to prevent the occurrence of disease. Knowledge of contexts and of the whole is crucial. This is also a matter of creating a good place of training for new veterinarians. Then it's important that they're part of a living research environment. In addition, it is essential that there are satisfactory study facilities for a sufficient number of veterinary students. It is not today, and the most critical is the old clinic building located in the Adams room. It's too small-- it's a side. In addition, one must be able to say that it does not meet current hygiene and protection requirements in case of suspicion of contagious animal diseases. There is an almost impossible task in the clinic building that exists today. One in no way needs a separate house or area to deal with infection, but there must be opportunities for isolation and the establishment of modern barriers to infection. Knowledge of infection and hygiene is not enough. Physical barriers must also be in place. In order to meet these land needs and the need for air space for animals, in my view, it is not appropriate to build new buildings in the Adams Room. Although overall building and co-location at Ås is more expensive, it is also much better to have the new premises there, based on study and clinical practice. Although today's students are enjoying themselves in Adamstien, I'm sure future students will find their way to the new university. Another point of view that has been discussed along the way is the relationship with the University of Oslo. Of course, veterinary research and cooperation with the University of Oslo should not be weakened by moving to Ås. Today, there is also close cooperation between all the institutions on important research projects. When I visited Ås, I was in a research environment there -- an environment that deals with genetic research and is part of the FUGE platform set up by the Norwegian Research Council. The research environment is international and the centre itself was full of laboratory equipment with advanced electronics and computer technology. One analyst drove during my visit and analyzed data for researchers at the Rikshospitalet. It is a common phenomenon and shows that a person cooperates both professionally and on the use of advanced and expensive equipment. It is important for us that this cooperation continues and develops further, so that we acquire even more knowledge about diseases that can be transmitted between animals and humans and about the infection that can be transmitted to humans through food. This knowledge can be even better developed by linking the knowledge from the Swedish Veterinary Institute and the University of Oslo even more closely to the research environments of the University of Ås and Nofima. This process has been demanding, but also exciting. After the matter came to Stortinget, we have had close contact with others in the professional environments. It has been of great benefit and benefit to us who have worked on this matter. In particular, I would like to commend the headmaster of the veterinary college who has remained calm throughout the process. Although he has never hidden the fact that he preferred to see the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute at Adamstuen and that the Veterinary College became part of the University of Oslo, he has made a good contribution to the process so that we have a clear and clear understanding of what is absolutely necessary to ensure that the move - and co-location - to Ås is successful. It is good for all parties and a good start to a process I think should give us a new and more robust university and research environment in an area where it is absolutely necessary that we as a nation lie in front. I have to comment on some of the comments that have been written during the examination of the matter in the committee - among others. by the Progress Party, which states that the Government has focused exclusively on bio-production and strengthening of the University of Environment and Life Sciences in the process. They also say that the biomedical aspect will be harmed by co-location at Ås. I think the Progress Party should take it easy. Biomedical research will be strengthened by taking into account the entire production process from breeding, feed and raw material production to further processing and industrial processes to the consumer. It will promote holisticity in the disease prevention work of veterinary medicine. I also believe that the fear that moving will weaken the cooperation with the University of Oslo and the Food Authority is exaggerated. After all, we're talking about moving 30 minutes by train from Oslo S. There is also the fear of the lack of access to small animals for clinical practice for students. In large parts of the country, the physical distance aspect in this context is not relevant. What is important is that one in the process to be undertaken should make clear the professional aspects to be taken into account. Biomedical research is a high priority in Norway and thus has nothing to fear in this process. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party for their good contribution to a good solution for the matter, and that we are now starting a necessary process to secure Norwegian veterinary medicine and the development of the University of Environment and Life Sciences for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e165	When we received this matter, it was almost that one had to pinch his arm. Here we are facing a huge move that alone affects far more jobs than Victor Norman moved out of Oslo. The matter is about a significant change in course in relation to Norwegian veterinary medicine, and it also affects a number of other professional environments, directly or indirectly. So we're going to have a thin case proposal on a little over two sides. Conclusion: NVH is moved from Oslo to Ås. A brief statement also states that the veterinary institute should be included in the draft vacuum. This is too bad. The Committee had a number of unanswered questions, and the Government's response to these questions was almost five times as far as the proposition itself, while referring to 400 pages of annexes. Discussions and assessments of the material normally contained in a landfill proposal flashed with its absence. Here the conclusion was taken in advance. And since we have a majority government, it doesn't bother to substantiate the recommendations, because the outcome is given. It smells like the center part a long way from this matter in more than one way. We know that the Central Party in the election campaign fought to move 6,000 jobs out of Oslo. And I'm sure the move of NVH and we will be credited with this election promise when the rise period goes to the end. But I want to remind everyone that Åslaug Haga assured that emigration was to be based on volunteering. Unfortunately, we see little of that in this matter. Due to weak case proposals, the members of the Committee have had to dig down into background material to find out what is talking about a move, and what is against it. The more one gets involved in the matter, the better one sees that the main emphasis of professional recommendations is in the direction that NVH and VI should still be located in Oslo. Many of those who point to an organisational consolidation with the NLH environment at Ås see a two-campus solution. The Dovre report, which is the Government's own KS1 report, shows in its utility analysis that the solution proposed by the Government is the worst and most costly. The alternative analysis from KD shows that it is only relative to agricultural production that the stakeholders point towards UMB. In terms of fish health, food safety, sports and family animals, education and research, there is continued localisation in Oslo and substantial cooperation with the UiO as it appears preferable to the professional part. It is therefore very regrettable that the Government focuses solely on the bio-production side and a strengthening of the UMB. The biomedical side will be harmed as a consequence of the Government's proposal. It is also of great concern to mix environments with environments that focus on industrial production with environments that are intended to monitor the soundness of this production from a health point of view. Through today’s location, good cooperation has developed between Norway’s veterinary high school, the Veterinary Institute and many of the medical institutions in Oslo. This has provided positive synergies in relation to animal health, food safety and preparedness. The proposal assumes that the NVH/UMB shall cooperate closely with the University of Oslo in relation to biomedicine in order to strengthen the development of the veterinary profession. The University of Oslo says that this will be difficult to achieve with the veterinary settings at Ås. Moving NVH and VI to UMB is therefore likely to lead to a weakening of this cooperation, which could go beyond the preparedness page, among other things. in relation to pandemics and the preventive action to be taken when an animal influenza virus that presents a real risk to human disease is detected. Terrorism preparedness and water security are also essential elements. I would like to remind everyone of last year's tragic events in relation to food and animal health, where E. coli bacteria led to deaths among children. There was close cooperation between the Institute of Public Health, the Food and Veterinary Administration and the Veterinary Institute to find out and stop this situation. Let's remember that when people get sick, they get hospitalized and not at the Agricultural College. The close contact between the medical environment and veterinary medicine is a key factor in tracing microbes and finding sources of infection. I can personally sign that this is a nine-time job that must be based on interdisciplinary work in order to be able to succeed in the best possible way. Veterinary training cannot be based on problems of food safety and veterinary medicine alone. Sport and family animal medicine and veterinary social medicine in the broadest sense must be given equal attention. Even in agricultural animal production, the number of animals in the region of Ås will be too low for veterinary training, so that parts of the clinical training must take place elsewhere, as at present. This applies not least to aquatic medicine and fish, but also to small and family animals where a clinic in Oslo is likely to have to be maintained in order to obtain an adequate basis for patients. Even today, patients have access to education for small animals at the lower limit of the EU standard. When moving the business to Ås, access will decrease significantly. A localisation of VI to UMB will be a step backwards in relation to the desire to separate administrative and industrial research. We must also remember that the main testing station for farmed animals in this country is located at UMB. It is important that these animals are protected from infection. Veterinary clinical activities indicate that there is a high risk that infected animals will be treated. This will therefore impose high requirements on building design and road solutions, and strict procedures and security measures must be established to prevent the spread of infection. The Progress Party believes that the Government's proposals are both expensive and poor, and there will be negative consequences for the entire university and higher education sector. We will therefore promote our proposal to continue to localise NVH and VI in Oslo. I am therefore addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e191	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e194	Today, the Stortinget takes an offensive and important decision that shows that a broad majority of the Stortinget wants to invest in further development and is in favour of a future-oriented solution for veterinary education and research in Norway. Research on and on food health, food safety and animal health is increasingly important and necessary both nationally and internationally. The Stortinget today decides to move Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute to Ås, and to merge Norway's veterinary college and the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås. The decision-making process has been a long one, and there have been a number of investigations. The debate has been going on for many years in the various parties and in the different disciplines on different solutions. Because there has been a broad consensus that it has been necessary to strengthen NVH through a merger. NVH and the Veterinary Institute are the only two veterinary research institutes in Norway. Individually, they are small compared to other international research institutions, but together they are strong. They have good cooperation today, and together they publish a significant number of scientific publications. They cooperate on scientific equipment. NVH also buys education from VI. The Norum Committee, various fascinations and the Norwegian Research Council have clarified that these two institutions must be co-located. For SV there is therefore no doubt that the decision we are taking today also implies that the Veterinary Institute should be moved to Ås. The majority emphasise that the Veterinary Institute is an independent institution, with key tasks related to both preparedness, diagnostics, monitoring and counselling. VI is continued as an independent institution, but in close cooperation with NVH. There has been an extensive process in Stortinget. I want to commend the important cooperation we have had with the Christian People's Party and the Left to get to this good position that is currently available for the Storting. SV has been very concerned about strengthening the priority research areas, such as food, health, the environment and aquaculture. Food production and food security are key national and international challenges in this century. The move to Ås, where both the veterinary profession, scientific research and education in an interaction with UMB will provide very good opportunities to strengthen students professionally, while at the same time providing students with opportunities for new educational combinations. The majority have argued that ‘a training capacity of 90 veterinary students seems to be the right level’, which is also very well justified on a professional basis. The majority option, the Ås option, offers good opportunities for growth and development in veterinary education. We assume that post-combination veterinary training with UMB should be continued as an overall professional training course. The decision taken today is important in order to strengthen the professional, both in terms of research, and - not least - in terms of the research-based education to be given to students. Newly built at Ås, infrastructure will improve working conditions for students and employees, provide better outdoor areas for animals and provide even greater opportunities for animal isolation when necessary. There are many other construction projects on the list of priorities in the university and higher education sectors. New buildings at Ås shall not be at the expense of the construction projects at the top of this priority list - new odontology building at the University of Bergen, new construction for nursing training at the University of Oslo and a project in connection with the co-location of the University of Bergen. Int. S. No The majority of 176 have given further attention to a good process of bundling and moving. UMB and NVH shall enter as two equivalent partners. There shall be a reciprocal and equivalent process between equivalent partners, a process in which all important professional environments shall be heard - and in which all important professional environments shall be involved. In the form of a decision, the Stortinget decides to establish an interim regime. We have stressed that it is important that this interim regime should be put in place as soon as possible, with 1 January 2009 as the last deadline. It is necessary for the Interim Board to have confidence and legitimacy in the various professional environments. It is also important that the new veterinary college continues its good cooperation with the medical environment at the University of Oslo. We also have other disciplines, such as: in Tromsø, and in Sandnes, which shall stand, and it is important that these also be further developed. It is important that the Ministry has a close dialogue with the Interim Board, to ensure that this important process continues in a good way - so that it becomes painless - and that the Department can come back to the Storting through propositions with any adjustments. It is a great responsibility on the institutions to get a good process going and to get started quickly. As I said initially, this has been a long and thorough process. I would like to thank all the professional communities and institutions for the good, constructive and decisive, important input through meetings, visits, e-mails and telephones throughout this process against the important decision that we are making today in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e226	There is little doubt that the proposition we are dealing with today is thin - despite the fact that numerous investigation work and reports on this matter have been carried out for many years. It would have been a great advantage for the case and for the merger project if the Ministry of Proposition had examined in much more detail the many sample reports, cost analyses and professional assessments underlying the Ministry's assessment. It is difficult not to see that this matter has been part of a political game in the government, and it may not serve the matter very well. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the treatment in Stortinget has been important to our position. The matter has been significantly better clarified by this, including: through questions and answers from the Council of State and through remarks from the Government Party fraction. Significant uncertainty has been attached to the estimates of costs for the project and this gives cause for concern. The Christian People's Party believes that continuity in the project is important to counteract cost uncertainty. We will therefore stress the need for the Storting to be kept continuously informed about the budgetary follow-up to the merger project. We are pleased that the majority of the committee expects that proposals for binding appropriations will be promoted for the Storting once the price has been fixed. The key to why the Christian People's Party supports Norway's veterinary high school and the Veterinary Institute being located in Ås and organised with UMB is the critical situation the buildings at NVH are in, what it means by challenges for both students and employees as well as that we need a robust professional environment that can stand well in an international context. In 2006, the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal in Stortinget to ask «The government is taking the initiative to build a new, modern and functional clinic building for farmed animals at the Norwegian Veterinary College, or alternatively to co-locate NVH with the University of Environmental and Bioscience in Ås». The time is now overdue to start building a new clinic building for farmed animals, while it is high time to prepare a general upgrading and updating of the total building mass of this institution. Parts of the building stock are very outdated, worn out and not adapted to today's requirements for teaching and research facilities. Medicine and surgery clinic stands the way it was built in the 1920s. This building is peaceful and is also in very poor condition. The reproductive clinic is in a building that has been rated 4 by Statsbyggen, which means that it is unsuitable for the purpose. At one of the production animal clinics there are no wardrobes, either for students or for employees. None of the clinics have isolates for cases of serious infectious diseases, and there are also other important facilities to prevent the spread of infection. Only in one clinic is there a disease, and this is also heavily modified. We will warn against adopting the Right proposal to put construction projects on the priority list. It will then flow in with suggestions for construction, and we will get a list that too bulking and government won't be real to deal with. I mean, all in all, that the Ås option is to be preferred - for several reasons. The Ås option will provide the best possible solutions for a large investment. An extension of Ås will provide the best possible facilities for the construction of modern and professionally suitable facilities for all animal species. It will also provide far better opportunities for the planned increase in the number of students at NVH in the future than an upgrade in Oslo could provide. The potential for any further expansion is simply greater in Ås than in Adamstuen. That's an important argument. We also believe that it will be easier to ensure good management of infectious diseases, access to animal transport and other practical conditions at Ås than would be at a continued location in Oslo. Close cooperation between UiO and NVH will be important in the future, although a co-location with UMB will be agreed. However, I find it difficult to see that a train time of approx. 30 minutes would be a significant obstacle to this. We don't have to go far into the districts until a time indication like this won't be seen as a distance at all. It has also been important for the Christian People's Party to stress that the Veterinary Institute must maintain its integrity and its ability to carry out its own role, which is an important mission also in a preparedness context in our nation. Both the economic uncertainties and not least the significant resistance to a shift in the environment at the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute make this a demanding project. There is therefore a great responsibility on the Government in the future to achieve a good implementation of this co-location, which we need. The aim must be that we have a co-location for the benefit of employees, students and the entire veterinary environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e252	As the Left sees this matter, it is important in terms of how to develop research and investment in research in Norway. It's an important thing, and regardless of whether you're on the line of the majority or the minority, we have to call up money for research. The sad list of buildings at the University of Bergen, the University of Bergen and the University of Oslo is a problem that has to be solved by itself. You have to raise the issue, and whether you vote with the majority, like the Left, or you vote with the minority, you have to blame money -- which is not there today. If you don't bludgeon that money, you might as well knock each other in the head, but it takes a bet to strengthen the professional environments that we're talking about here. It is also emphasized the importance of the needs of the current high school of veterinary medicine in Adamstuen. For the Left, this case has a story. I have heard in the course of the debate that someone has seen this as a kind of a localization decision. That's what I think with all due respect -- I want to make it clear -- that you have to add the side. The situation is that even the Norum Committee in its time said that no matter what solution you choose - the Norum Committee in fact unanimously agreed to an organisational merger of the current UMB and the Veterinary College, the majority agreed to move, while the minority would have a two-campus solution - you need to talk about a professional cooperation and research collaboration between a wooden struggle that is about the University of Environment and Life Sciences, the University of Oslo and the Veterinary University - anyway. When the Committee promotes a proposal for an interim board, it is because this has to go its way, so that those who want to get to that association will be able to do so, and those who want to fight back, at least not let the perspective go away from what is the professional side of the matter, namely that we have to develop this network. In many ways, this is also part of the undertone that lies in the Star Island range. If you don't go for it, for example. The majority of the Starø Committee believes that binding networks must be established between university environments, institutes and different professional environments. That's absolutely necessary. The carpet for the matter is like this. In this case, the Left and Christian People's Party have a common remark. There we say directly that we believe that the file is incomplete, taking into account the very extensive and thorough investigation work that is behind it. But we also believe that through the correspondence that has been between the committee and the state council, we have got on the table solid and thorough information that allows us to decide on the matter. That's why we've chosen to do it. But we, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have also found it necessary to give this comment to the document we originally received. So it's like someone's using that document so that they don't let the matter go further. Then the Left only wants to remember that there have been no more than three years since the Bondevik II government, with a Council of State from the Right, made a proposal to do the same as it is voted on today. The majority of the population, all except the Advance Party, joined it and took note of it. So if it's going to be used for anything, at least I'm not going to use it for anything but to say that there's been different views in the matter, and they can be broken against each other. But it's not like those who stand for one view want veterinary medicine north and down, and those who stand on the other side don't. For this reason, the entire committee - including the majority of the committee - has decided that, in the course of the move to which it relates, the veterinary medicine environment must exist as a continuous course of professional study. Anyone who's been afraid that it might be broken up can put it aside, because it would be completely meaningless. Similarly, it has been said that the Veterinary Institute now being moved is an independent institution because, in addition to research, it has other tasks in relation to both preparedness, control and supervision. Of course, it has to be independent in its entire organisation if it's to be able to do that job. So I would say that if this was not clear in the proposition, at least it became clear to me by -- let me say it the following way -- intense, but factual argument from the parties involved in the Adams room. It is such that I tolerate intense and factual argumentation. It can all take care of it, because there's pressure in a case, means that you burn for it. Towards the end of this speech, I would like to say that the minority and the majority like to fight between themselves, but both the representative Gundersen's proposals and the proposals of the Progress Party are as small as the majority's proposals if no money is put on the table to invest in scientific building and scientific equipment. Then we would have a problem with the Adams room business today, then we would have a problem anyway. Therefore, it is said that happily, both the majority and the minority still have a clear perspective that research efforts are absolutely necessary in the coming years. It is necessary to create a completely different space for both construction and equipment to promote research in general, but also for research in the areas described here in the UMB option and the alternative to biomedicine. Left votes in favour of the majority's proposal. We're voting for it on the basis of the reason I've now explained. There is a line in our position from 2001 until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e272	It often creates a conflict with visionary and forward-looking solutions - as in this case too. But the government has chosen to go for the most offensive and forward-looking solution for veterinary education and research in Norway. That's why we are proposing to merge the Veterinary College with the University of Environmental and Bioscience, and also to allow the Veterinary Institute to be co-located with these environments at Ås, in order to build larger and more robust research environments. This is a follow-up to clear recommendations from, among others. the biofascinations of the Norwegian Research Council. The decision is based on strong technical arguments and allows the establishment of a new integrated university and a compact biological research environment on Campus Ås, which will be unique in Norway. Such an environment could be built up in the interests of multidisciplinary and holistic thinking and with clear objectives of strengthening the priority areas of research on food, health and the environment, including aquaculture. A new, powerful scientific research environment will strengthen the international competitiveness of NVH and UMB, both in terms of the awarding of heavy research projects, and in terms of attracting skilled researchers. Moving the Veterinary College to Ås and merging with UMB will strengthen the work on national challenges related to food safety and animal and aquatic medicine. Norway’s Research Council supports this with Norway’s largest food research community on Campus Ås, and there is also significant research in aquaculture at UMB and Akvaforsk, now called Nofima Marin. Aquaculture is a high priority field in both UMB and NVH strategic plans. Norway's only Center for Excellent Research in Aquaculture, Aquaculture Protein Centre, is located at Ås. This centre is a good starting point for further development of Norwegian aquaculture research in key areas such as genome research, feed quality and health. Food safety is based on measures throughout the manufacturing chain. Work on food security in the future will be based on knowledge of food chains - both animal, aquatic and vegetable - and risk analyses related to them. Closer cooperation between UMB, NVH, the Veterinary Institute, Bioforsk, Nofima Mat and Nofima Marin at Ås will help strengthen the whole of this knowledge chain. As indicated by the landfill proposal, the Government assumes that the NVH department in Sandnes will also be further developed in a new institution. The Government also assumes that the veterinary environments continue to cooperate with the fish health environments in Bergen and Tromsø in order to further strengthen the aquatic medicine area. Of course, veterinary research and cooperation between the University of Oslo and the veterinary environments should not be weakened by a move to Ås. The work on further developing veterinary medicine will be central to the integration work to be carried out in the future. In addition to the professional opportunities and synergies, the opportunities to land on Ås provide many advantages. New, modern veterinary facilities can be optimally designed, without the spatial and other constraints of the site of the Adams Room. It is important to clarify that the area needs of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute at Ås are mainly to be met by new buildings based on future veterinary needs. It is based on the functional analysis of State Building, such as, inter alia: pointed out that in selected areas the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute must be closely integrated also within Campus Ås in order to achieve good hygienic procedures and logistics for the management of infectious material. I am very pleased that this matter is approaching a final decision in Stortinget. Although the proposition may seem small in the number of pages, the matter has been thoroughly investigated over several years - it has been within the Storting several times and is based on a number of reports and recommendations. I would like to commend the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and in particular the Christian People's Party and the Left, for their very constructive cooperation. I am pleased with the proposal to set up an interim board to lead the work on the co-organisation of NVH and UMB. This is particularly important to ensure a good process of working towards a new integrated institution. Both the Ministry of Knowledge and I will follow this process very closely, and make sure it becomes inclusive and constructive. It is essential that institutions participate in the forthcoming process as equivalent partners, and that the process takes care of the specific and needs of the specialised disciplines, but also contributes to the location of professional environments that should naturally be seen in the context, so as to promote cooperation and thus contribute to the development of larger and more robust research environments. This includes the possibilities of future veterinary medicine. The government has chosen the possibilities - it will be up to the three cooperating institutions to realize them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e301	It is focused on both the Council of State and also in the production that one now wants a green university. Does the Council of State really say that one will now continue to co-locate more green disciplines at Ås? And will that again mean that one will go to other universities and other academic environments and pick up and move environments to a co-location at Ås?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e306	It is important to be able to look ahead with regard to the biodisciplinary. Here we are in a very exciting cooperation between biomedical and veterinary medicine, which certainly has a very good synergy in terms of co-location, but above all, which the representative Dørum was also involved in, coordination and interaction between research environments to make the environments stronger. Of course, that doesn't mean you're opening up everything that's related to biological things, from other places and other places of study. It's important that there is everywhere. But precisely in the new design between Veterinärhögskolen and UMB, I imagine that there will be a very exciting research and educational collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e311	I note with satisfaction that no one places this on the market as a district policy measure. I think that's very good. I have to go back to the costs. We are now reading that there is a cost explosion in very much of the construction sector. We read about 30-40-50 pst. increase over the last three years. The analyses we are making this decision are actually three to four years old, and it should worry the Council of State strongly, for the consequence of the decision is being sent to a future government, which must find room for this, and then at the expense of the rest of the sector. So my question is: does the Council of State feel a discomfort by entrusting this responsibility to a future government on such a weak basis as you now see? And does she also see the risk in the process itself that the environments might get confused in the process of waiting that you are now going into?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e318	The Council of State feels very little discomfort in this matter. I am very confident about the technical reasons, and we are of course prepared to initiate an important organisational process immediately after this decision is taken in Stortinget. This is important. It is a difficult co-organization it is about; it will be all such organisational processes. And while you're preparing the economic -- which of course is also obsessed with some uncertainty, but where we also look forward to a good deal of harmony with the organizational process -- I'm absolutely convinced that we get a good, common parallel process. Suggesting this deferred and returned will lead to even more desert-free migration than it has been now, so I am very happy that we are going to get into port with that decision -- hopefully today -- and that we are running out of time with even more uncertainty and even more investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e327	The Council of State and I are in the party in the matter, but the Council of State has 5 minutes, so I get to help her make a comment. The Council of State has argued very well for the cooperation between the University of Environment and Life Science - I say the name that way, because I have heard a lot of agitation about agricultural interests and the School of Agriculture in a way that does not show respect for professional environments, but the Council of State has shown respect in the cooperation between the UMB and the Veterinary College. In any case, there will be a need for cooperation between those mentioned here and the University of Oslo, for example: in biomedicine and veterinary medicine. Has the Council of State considered any action that could be taken in such a context? It should also be part of a solution, as the Norum Committee in due course called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e339	I'm glad Dørum is clarifying environmental and life sciences. I believe that there is a very important forward-looking approach to both education and research in the synergies we will achieve here. Of course, we have set out as a clear lead that cooperation with the human-medical disciplines of the University of Oslo will continue. One thing is to let it continue as today, another thing is to go deeper into a development of how this should be. Of course, we haven't gone into that in detail, but I'm very clear that there has to be an important cooperation relationship with what's happening not least in the medical field, as we see at the University of Oslo. But the great synergy is seen in biomedical and veterinary medicine, given the relationship between the Veterinary College and the University of Environmental and Bioscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e346	There is a great need for new buildings and maintenance throughout the university and higher education sectors, and a number of buildings have been waiting for appropriations for a number of years. In the course of this year's budgetary procedure, the Government would not grant one crown to construction because of the pressure on the construction market. Today, the government proposes without further delay to spend an extra $1 billion on moving NVH and VI to Ås. That expansion is likely to vacuum the entire Oslo and Akershus area for all entrepreneurs and craftsmen. When does the Government really realize that these new builders are going to be in place? How does the Government intend to finance this? And - not least: how is there going to be money for all the other new buildings and for the necessary maintenance the sector needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e355	I expect that we will return to both priorities and amounts in various budgetary debates in the future, but what lies in the ministry and my assessment of what are the priorities of construction today are three buildings, which are also clarified in the budget papers. In addition to that, we do not have a very detailed priority. But it is clear that this project - both in terms of the design of buildings, and not least in terms of organisational, professional cooperation, which must go in parallel with that - we will be involved in the immediate start. How this will be put in place in the various budgets will be up to any budgetary process. But I'll do my best to make room for as many buildings as possible. And most people are in the billion dollar class when we talk about construction in the university and higher education sectors. I'll do my best to get as much of it as possible, and as I said, we'll meet again at the next budget crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e363	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e367	By deciding to move Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute to Ås and coordinate NVH and UMB, the Stortinget adopts the construction of a modern, forward-looking university with expansion and development opportunities and with a professional profile that addresses key future challenges in Norway. That's good. In addition to the new university, this centre will include the Veterinary Institute, important parts of Nofima - Matforsk and Aquaforsk - and Bioforsk, i.e. central parts of the Norwegian Institute sector in the blue-green disciplines and related basic research. It's a historical boost. It is a promise that provides the basis for a national and international power station for research and education on Campus Ås. Through this proposal, the Government collects from the producer to the consumer the country’s main competences related to knowledge development and education in the case of Norwegian food production and animal health. The decision facilitates the provision of business and management with the necessary candidates and knowledge. Thus, we respond to major future knowledge challenges related to the production of safe food, animal and fish health, animal welfare and climate and energy policies. The decision also facilitates the development of the veterinary profession that strengthens the manufacturing and business perspective of research and education in the blue and green sectors, both in primary production and in the food sector. Research is an international discipline. If the research is to serve the business and management of the future, it is not sufficient to be good in Norway. By setting up a new university, we will facilitate the development of biological research and education environments that are large enough to also be interesting as international partners - and thus be at the forefront just internationally. A collection of the institutions provides the robust scientific environment needed by Norwegian business and Norwegian administration. Biological productions from agriculture and aquaculture are pillars of Norwegian district policy. The food sector represents our most complete value chain and contributes about 120 000 jobs. This sector relies on top-quality research to meet the challenges of just animal health and animal welfare and environmental and climate policy. This government is committed to strengthening the production and processing of safe Norwegian food. Such a goal must be two-legged: knowledge of production and processing on the one hand and knowledge of the challenges/hazards threatening food security on the other. In this context, viable research environments are crucial. That is why this good research policy, that is good business policy, and it is - unlike what the representative Gundersen said - also good district policy, as a consequence of this. The Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian Veterinary College together represent a strong Norwegian veterinary professional environment that has been a key focus of food security in Norway for decades. The Government wants these institutions to be further developed in the interests of food security. At the same time, the Veterinary Institute and the Norwegian veterinary college have different tasks and responsibilities. We are a research institute with key societal tasks related to preparedness, diagnosis, monitoring and reference functions. The Foundation is the main body of competence of the authorities in the field of terrestrial animal and fish health and also has extensive competence in other fields of food safety. The localisation of just VI and NVH together with other key knowledge environments in the field of food ensures a strong role for the veterinary professions in the future. Overall, this provides a unique basis for multidisciplinary research, education and other knowledge dissemination in areas of crucial importance for the Norwegian food sector. At the same time as VI becomes part of a new heavy trade union environment at Ås, it is important that its cooperation relations with other knowledge environments providing support for food supervision continue and further develop. In particular, this applies to the Swedish Institute for Public Health in Oslo, and to NIFES, the National Institute for Nutrition and Marine Food Research in Bergen. At the same time, research cooperation with the universities of Bergen and Oslo should also be further developed. In the further process, I want to pay particular attention to facilitating that we develop further as an independent research institute. We will continue to be a key provider of knowledge for the management of its core areas of animal and fish health, animal welfare and food safety. In this context, it is also important to further develop the role of the VI in preparedness for animal diseases and dangerous animal infectious agents. I'm glad that the Food Safety Authority has established that we still have good preparedness, even though there will be a few miles between the head office of the Food Safety Authority and the Veterinary Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e391	The EU has suffered from bovine disease and salmonella. In order to address this, the EU has chosen to remove animal health and food safety from agriculture. The proposal we are discussing today is going the opposite way. My question to the Council of State will then be: Can the Council of State assure the Government that the solution that is now being outlined will maintain and strengthen the efforts and competences in food safety and animal health?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e398	I can. The main reason is that we must succeed in the work on food security and in relation to the issues raised by the representative, whole chain thinking is a prerequisite. We are not able to reduce the risk associated with food by focusing only on the last term, i.e. at the moment that food is on the consumer's table. The problems that appear there are very often related to things that have happened earlier in the process. The model we have in Norway, looking at the whole chain and focusing on production until food is eaten, is necessary to succeed. I also believe that the experience of the relatively demanding situations we have been through, not least the E. coli case, has shown that we are able to cooperate, and that we have a preparedness that is adapted to the particular problem that the representative is addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e405	The veterinary institute has had an emergency function with the authorities for nearly 120 years. In crisis situations, it is very important that the parties responsible for preparedness, monitoring and action are co-located. That was also the main reason, I would say, that the head office of the Food Safety Authority was located near the Veterinary Institute and the Public Health Institute. That proximity is now being split up. This is a problem that was raised by the Council of State at an all-round meeting with the Veterinary Institute in January. It did not appear to have a significant impact on the decision of the Council of State. Nor is it mentioned in one word in the proposition. You can claim that there are also many other things that are not. The question is: how can we take care of the important concerns and the important function of the Veterinary Institute as an emergency department in relation to food security, when we split the environments that have been sought both professionally and politically, precisely in order to strengthen the emergency function?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e414	As I was so far within my previous answer, we have had some examples of issues of the nature in which the very cooperation that Eriksen is addressing was tested. There is no doubt that the Swedish Food Safety Authority, the Veterinary Institute and the Institute for Public Health are all key actors in that kind of situation. Had I thought that by moving the Veterinary Institute a few miles out of Oslo, we would put that security in jeopardy, we wouldn't have done this. We're talking about short distance, we're talking about approx. Half an hour's drive, and we also talk about living in a time how much of the communication happens in other ways. I am absolutely sure that the relatively short distance between the Food Authority in the future and the Veterinary Institute with which we operate here does not represent any risk in relation to that in and on its own - as I understood it - the sincere desire of the representative to have a focus on food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e421	In my opinion, the Council of State has clearly argued for the benefit of the majority voting. I just need to confirm a matter that the entire committee addresses in connection with the Veterinary Institute. That's where the committee says that one assumes that, regardless of the localization issue-- and in that case the Council of State and the Left agree-- ‘will be arranged to enable the Veterinary Institute to continue as an independent institution and to facilitate the further development of the competence of VI and its important portfolio of tasks’. Should I understand the statements of the Council of State today as an unambiguous answer yes to what is stated here in the committee setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e431	The representative may do so. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e436	It's really a pretty big case that's being dealt with today: it's a big billion-dollar investment, it's about the future of 800 employees, it's about moving a veterinary institute that hasn't even been investigated, and there's a lot of complicated professional relationships and assessments that need to be taken into account in a case like this. Does the Council of State think that all these conditions have been thoroughly reviewed and evaluated on the scarcely two-three sides presented by the Government to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e443	Now there is a little more basic material to the decision than what was presented to the Stortinget. The investigation and what has been done in advance has been discussed with Stortinget, but of course not all details are presented in the Proposition of Stortinget. It's been a thorough round in advance. I feel confident that what we are doing now is well thought out, also with regard to the professional. With regard to economics, it's interesting, because I heard in the debate here earlier that the representatives of the Progress Party are, for once, occupied by the billions who float. It's not that often we hear that commitment from that party. Otherwise, I believe that in this context the billions should not flow. We're going to spend money building a future-oriented university on Campus Ås, which means we're spending a little bit more money in a construction phase to get a strong, solid university out there, but that's going to give opportunities far beyond what you'd get by maintaining an old building in Oslo, which would never reach the same standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e450	The Council of State was concerned with district policy, and my opinion is that only the movement itself as a district policy is not particularly meaningful when moving within the same working region. As far as rural policy and agriculture are concerned, the Council of State has far greater challenges than this in creating a vital, viable agriculture that is a good sponsor of the UMB. There are many challenges. I could imagine hearing the council say a little bit about organization, because we're now going into a process where two environments are to be co-located. We know that the veterinary community is very focused on keeping its own identity. They want a faculty organization at UMB. UMB has no faculty organisation; they are institutionalized. This is going to happen between two equivalent environments, as it is said, and my question is then: does the Council of State see any challenges in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e458	The answer here is obviously yes. Clearly, the challenges associated with the project we are now launching are great, but the possibilities are even greater. I am convinced that as the process starts, all those involved will also see what added value you can derive here by getting people and competences together with many contact points at Ås, and that it offers great opportunities. But that in a transitional phase, it will be difficult to get different institutions that have more or less lived their own lives up to this, to become the powerful unit that we're going to have -- even though they have their independence left behind -- is quite obvious. But once again, the possibilities are, I believe, considerably greater than the challenges it brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e466	When we politicians are to make decisions, we should assume that the decisions we are making are forward-looking and that they are well-founded. The transfer of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to Ås is both well-founded and a forward-looking solution for both the NVH, the Veterinary Institute and the University of Ås. There have been many investigations into the future of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute. The government and government parties at Stortinget together with the Left and Christian People's Party have stated that a co-location with UMB at Ås is the best solution, it is forward-looking and gives us the opportunity to build a completely new and unique research and competence environment in Ås with a focus on food security and on animal and aquatic medicine. The interdisciplinary nature of the new environment can be compared to the technology environment we have in Trondheim around NTNU and Sintef. So this will represent something new, strong, robust and complete. I am pleased that several parties want to seize that opportunity to build a new research environment in Norway. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments we want to move and co-locate on Ås, based on our position. I refer to what the previous speakers have said, and to the comments of the majority in the vote. What I do most about in this matter is the opinion of the Right, or what I perceive as a lack of attitude. What has happened to the Right since they themselves were in government? Let me refer to the treatment of the revised national budget in 2005. Then all lots, except for the Advance Party, took note of the following: ‘The Government considers that the co-organisation and co-location of NVH and UMB, as well as the transfer of the Veterinary Institute to Ås, could contribute to the building of an integrated and integrated primary activity in Ås.’ The previous government, with Minister of Education Kristin Clemet from the Right, thought - like today's government - that a move of NVH and VI to Ås was right. Now that we have finally reached the decision's day, the Right and the Case-Rapporteur, Gundersen, do not want to take a decision at all. I can't understand that. If the Right thought they had enough information to make a decision in 2005, why don't they have it in 2008? The Proposition of the Government provides an adequate basis. Looking at the whole story of this matter, it is one of the best-investigated matters for a long time, and the government has also given the Storting plenty of information after the matter was brought forward. I can't help but understand that the right here is running a game that nobody's earned, especially the institutions themselves. It will take a long time before co-location can take place, they point out in their comments. That argument quickly reverts to themselves. If they really believe that this is a good argument, it is at least a bad solution to postpone the matter further, as they want. What the Veterinary College, the Veterinary Institute and the UMB now need is a final clarification and calmness to start the process, and it wants the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party to give them, no more uncertainty. When it comes to the process itself, I am particularly pleased that we got point 2 in the setting. The urgency of the establishment of an interim board of trust and legitimacy in all established professional environments, and by 1 January 2009 at the latest, is important. The establishment as soon as possible of such a governance that will lead the co-organisation process, ensuring that the process is set in motion quickly, and ensuring that all the trade unions are involved in this process. It will be both exciting and important to follow this forward. The spatial dimension of the move has been overdramatized by some. It's not the long distance from Oslo out to Ås, and it's exactly the same distance from the other way. Oslo and Ås are well within the same working region I am also convinced that a new veterinary environment at Ås can still maintain good contact with the environment in Oslo, while giving them new opportunities for development at Ås. Today's students will be little affected by this. The future students will start their education with a completely different starting point. Finally, we already have a leading environment at Ås. A co-location of NVH, the Veterinary Institute and UMB at Ås will further strengthen the environment. It's a chance I'm glad we're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e493	The protection of the Trillemarka has been given a lot of attention in Stortinget. The majority last week considered a proposal from the Progress Party to base the voluntary protection proposal from municipalities and landowners. But the proposal was harshly rejected by the majority in this Chamber. The protection plan for Trillemarka is contrary to the concrete electoral commitments given by the Central Party during the 2005 elections. They then promised the voters that they would take the voluntary protection proposal into account during the deliberation process, so that one would safeguard both the interests of protection and the interests of the landowners. One would think that that perspective was important for a party that sometimes claims to represent landowners all over the country. Now it took an unexpected turn, so that the debate on the protection of Trillemarka would result in both the foundation of the state basis for protection, and that the Verinärhögskolan and the Veterinary Institute should be moved to the central party leader Hagas' home municipality, was probably a bit out of line with the starting point. There is of course no connection between these two matters, except that the result of them was presented at the same time, and that the centre party is strongly involved in both. In addition, there may be some question marks in the case investigation regarding the last case. I am not particularly impressed when the Council of State says that they have not presented all the details of this matter on the two-three pages that they have submitted to the Stortinget, but that they have a lot of other reasons for doing so. Usually, the government presents a rather hesitant job in advance of presenting cases to the Stortinget. This case is the exception. Or is it perhaps that the government is now notifying future propositions on a pair-three sides, even if there are changes in the billions class, even though there are hundreds of employees who are being affected by it, and even if there are professionally heavy and difficult assessments that should be the basis? So the relocating of the Veterinary Institute is not even done! There is considerable uncertainty about cost analyses, and the Government is clear on at least one thing, and it is that location at Ås is not the most socio-economical one. It means, in practice, moving to Ås costs a lot more than keeping this in Oslo attached to the University of Oslo. Nor when a user of socio-economic considerations, does the Government manage to construct some form of long-term profitability. The move is expensive, it's not socio-economically profitable in the long term, most employees are against moving, the University of Oslo is obviously against moving, scientificly attenuating the investment in biomedicine and natural sciences - and my claim is also on aquaculture - while research on cows and sheep is given priority. In addition, I must mention that by moving NVH and VI to Ås, the emergency response also weakens. A year ago, we experienced the E. coli disaster. The probable reason was that manure from farmed animals had entered the slaughter process. We all remember the drama. We all remember how long it took to figure out the solution. Researchers worked on blasting, and the solution finally came because of a total of all relevant competences, including veterinary medicine. Even if we live in a world where distances are said not to mean anything because we have fast lines of telecommunications, specified, among other things. by the Council of State here instead, actually means daily meeting points, daily rounds around the lunch table something. Meetings in informal contexts link different professions and differing approaches. It's often in the frontier between these that the solutions appear. Such solutions often have to appear quickly. We can imagine a situation where Norway is exposed to bioterrorism. Then an actually easier and simpler person with people thinks a truster from before, people have a good dialogue with already. People who eat together also think easier together. I have no scientific evidence to support that claim, but scientific evidence is not what characterises this matter by the Government. In other words, there are few -- if any -- heavy arguments for moving NVH and VI to Ås, with one exception: Trillemarka. We're going to take substantial arguments seriously, because, unfortunately, they rule a little too much of this government's priorities. This is a matter that we are guaranteed to meet on our road later on. Then it's good to be able to say that the Progress Party has listened to professional advice. We adhered to the option most employees thought was right. We chose what was profitable economic and socio-economic. We prioritised forward-looking research, but we lost on Trillemarka. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party will support the Right proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e508	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e511	I must say that it is gratifying that we are today to decide that Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute of Adamstua in Oslo will merge with the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås. Thus, we end a process that has been going on for many years, and we lay the foundation for UMB to become a viable and important university, which will become a robust professional environment with a focus on bio-production and food science, including aquaculture. In the media, it has been produced as if this is a purely localization matter and not professionally justified. I will strongly reject that. This is a good solution, not least from a commercial policy perspective. Such co-ordination and co-location facilitates interdisciplinary research and teaching in areas of great importance, including: for the Norwegian food sector. By combining the professional environments for the production of food, livestock and fish with those who work with diseases in the same organisms, we get a very strong international environment in this area. The major actors in the food industry have long pointed to the importance for future food production of building robust environments where professional disciplines are involved in research, development and education, and where the focus is on the whole value chain. It is important to stress that UMB will be important not only for the green sector and agriculture, but also for the marine industries and the blue sector. Nofima, which is a combination of several things the major research institutes Matforsk, Akvaforsk, Fischerforsking and Norconserv, are central to the government's research on blue-green nutrition. Aquascience, which is the country's largest and most well-known biological nutrition research institute before aquaculture, is located at Ås. In addition, Matforsk is there. I believe that co-location will provide the basis for UMB to become a hub within blue-green research that can contribute to food development throughout the country. The Ås environment has a long experience in building up local business. The farming industry, which today contributed to jobs throughout the country, actually had its origins in this environment. I would particularly like to point out the Biopark's important role in this context, so this is a bet that will give positive ringing effects to the whole country. I am sure that the new UMB will be a lighthouse both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e526	It is not uncommon to be concerned with synergistic effects in terms of pooling or relocating institutions. I would like to stress some of the professional synergies - not all speakers have been equally concerned about it. I'm not going to mention the name, but I'm thinking most of all about the last post from the Progress Party. The proposal on the Storting Table today facilitates interdisciplinary research and education in areas of high socio-economic value. This will include, inter alia: unbroken feed chains are achieved for farmed animals on land and in rams - blue-green is well called - whole chains around food safety from the producer to the consumer, shared use of competences and infrastructure in basic biological research, e.g. in the field of biotechnology. In the case of professional synergies in teaching, this will include, inter alia: coordination of education in a number of basic subjects, synergies between NVH education, veterinarian, animal care, aquatic medicine, food safety, and UMBs, livestock, aquaculture, food, etc., and strengthening UMB training in food safety, medicine and health. As regards research, we are well aware that there are many research groups at NVH and UMB in the same disciplines - for example. chemistry, mathematics, statistics, microbiology, hygiene and food safety. Co-location will achieve larger and more robust research groups. At UMB there are also professional parallels with the Veterinary Institute. And so an interesting consideration that I have received: for some time there was a compilation of the subjects given to the veterinary students and students at Ås in the first three years of their studies. This showed that it was over 70 pst. the overlap between the subjects given to the two student groups and a wide range of topics. By combining these, the cost of teaching per year will be higher than the cost of teaching per year. Students will probably sink and coordination of the topics for both student groups will therefore be able to reduce the cost of teaching. Several teachers in each subject area will also provide more robust teaching groups and lead to better teaching, by improving the use and benefit of the specific areas and subjects of individual teachers. Finally, the localization debate: it gets weird for people who live 20 miles away from Oslo, and who look at the Oslo area as a unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e541	I have no desire to extend the debate, but I find it necessary to say that I have noticed that this debate on the future operation of the Norwegian veterinary high school has become a debate on two different locations. I think there is reason to remember that this is a nationally important issue that does not have to be left as a locating struggle between two places and two key competences. I have no strong commitment to either one or the other location option, but I am concerned that the institution's national importance for research and for primary industry must be at the forefront. When the government now proposes a location to Ås and coordination with the University of Environment and Life Sciences, I feel sure that this will be a good result. Together with the further development of the Department of Veterinary College in Sandnes and close cooperation with the good environments of expertise in fishing health and marine veterinary services in Bodø and Tromsø, this will be a very good unit when new buildings are completed at Ås. I hope that when this stirring localization debate is over, everyone can gather to build a forward-looking educational institution in co-organisation and co-location linked to the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås. All parties are best served to ensure that this matter is now settled and that the business is developing in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e552	Council! The representatives Gåswatten and probably Anundsen thought that this was primarily a matter that was related to... did I say the Council of State? I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e559	It's okay. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e564	These two representatives thought this might have been a matter primarily related to the Central Party's ambitions of moving state jobs out of Oslo. I can comfort the two representatives that this type of spring will probably not be considered very high in the Centre Party group. As Mr Enger said, Ås and Oslo are within the same labour market area. That's not what they're talking about. It's the professional arguments that count in this context. It is our national commitment to bio-production, food science and the development of stronger professional environments for an intensified focus on food security. There are several good reasons for co-location at Ås: Co-location opens up a long-term focus on food and food security. The Ås option guarantees growth opportunities for veterinary activities. The Ås option strengthens the contribution of the eastern region to the aquaculture industry. The last argument, related to aquaculture, may not be an obvious argument for everyone, but most people will still be aware that aquaculture research started in the research environments of Ås. Through the co-funding of the Research Communication, there is cross-political support for a strong national commitment to aquaculture. Both the Swedish Veterinary College and UMB currently have training in the field of aquaculture, and UMB has graduated about half of Norway’s doctoral candidates in the field. - Time won't go, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e586	No, the president was then suspended by the quick appointment here. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e591	It's probably not meant to be an invitation to others to repeat that kind of thing. Now I got kicked out too. Food, such as biological production, environmentally sound production and food security, is the common denominator for a small country such as Norway to have the right to think of coherent solutions for the development of education at university level and in research, such as their own. has done so in Sweden with good results. [[Laughter]] Oslo and Akershus, through Oslo Teknupol, are working together to strengthen the Oslo region as an innovative region. In this context, the Life science area has been designated as an area of activity for which Oslo and Akershus together will develop strategies to strengthen within their region. The issue we have today for the treatment, co-location of the Veterinary Institute, the Veterinary College and UMB on Campus Ås, is, of course, an opportunity to strengthen the location of the Life science area in Oslo and Akershus. It's hard to see that we could get the same gains by continuing to do this as separate institutions located in different professional environments. So I hope that a boat from Oslo and Akershus sees this as an opportunity to strengthen the strategies of the Oslo region to become a stronger innovative region. The formation of the new university presupposes that I will be adopted today. I am pleased that it is so strongly underlined that it is important that an interim regime is now set in place that initiates these processes, both the investigation of what is going to happen, how to cooperate better, and how to achieve this, and that it is started immediately. I also think it is important, with reference to what has happened to some other higher education associations, that this should not rest, but that one should be offensive once the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e604	I think the proposal for the co-location of Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute with the University of Environment and Life Sciences out at Ås is a good solution. But there are clearly good arguments for both of the two localisation options that have been evaluated. I do not consider this matter to be primarily about district policy, or that it is important first and foremost to move institutions out of Oslo. As I see it, it is about building a forward-looking and strong research and higher education environment in connection with the University of Ås, thereby increasing the quality of higher education and giving research in the bio disciplines, the environment and aquaculture more cloth. Critical mass and peak are the concepts of this assessment that are important for the development of internationally attractive and sought research and education. In my view, the research and university community in Oslo will not suffer from this. It's already, and will still be, the heaviest research environment we have here in the country. As Stortinget has decided that the School of Agriculture at Ås was to be converted into a university, I believe it is important to develop this environment further into a heavier and better-quality environment of competence than it appears today. Since both institutions are located in the Oslo region, I also believe that the possibility of pulling bills on each other and cooperating is the best. With the proposal for co-location with UMB, the government emphasises the strengthening of strategic basic research and applied research on farmed animals. This I think is important. In addition, there is a good opportunity to carry out an overall assessment of food safety and food safety throughout the food chain from the manufacturer to the consumer. Localisation at Ås will better facilitate enhanced preventive action in the field of animal health and facilitate good management of infectious issues. I also believe that there is an argument for localisation at Ås that there is better room for dealing with dead animals and infectious diseases associated with this. As far as I know, you always make sure that institutions dealing with such matters are not located in city centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e615	First a little history: In spring 2005, the Bondevik II government proposed today’s mentioned merger, based on professional arguments. A representative proposal from Odd Einar Dørum, Lars Sponheim and the then big business representative, Terje Johansen, was about to set up a so-called green university. There have been a number of investigations into the future of Norway’s veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute. In the professional rationale for moving to Ås, the current government, in line with the previous government, has chosen to give priority to national challenges related to food safety, animal and aquatic medicine, which many have been facing here today. The Ministry has received several reports and opinions on the consequences of the different options, and has absolutely listened to the professional environment, taken into account the costs of a move, and looked at the limitations of continued location in the Adamstuen. Of course, there will always be different opinions in scientific environments, but the Left believes that food safety is better ensured by linking veterinary training to production training at Ås. The risk of infection from continued localisation in central Oslo is reduced. The tradition of UMB in fish is important. The professional environment in question is also greater in Ås, and localisation offers far greater opportunities in terms of location. In addition, UMB has masters in public health science and studies in food safety, sports and family animals. Overall, integration with UMB at Ås provides a good interdisciplinary approach to food safety, animal and aquatic medicine, and will provide an increased opportunity to also strengthen organic production, biotechnology and innovation, and thus forward-looking perspectives for Norwegian veterinary education. In conclusion, the representatives of the left have been loyal to the previous government and look forward to the final clarification and realization.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e628	The location and organisation of Norway's veterinary high school has created commitment. And that's good. In the Church, Education and Research Committee, we have been involved in people who would tell us about the positive and negative aspects of the proposition put forward by the Government for consideration. Let's say that there's been a lot of good input into the process that makes it stand as a final decision today, is well founded. It is good that we can finally get a clarification. Such things as this, where one is going to make both organisational changes and at the same time make a fairly extensive relocation of business, one has to think far ahead. In such a perspective, one must also ask where the large livestock will be in the future. Livestock censuses and e.g. the 2007 supply statistics from Nortura show this in clear figures: the number of slaughters delivered from domestic animals is up to 40 times higher in Rogaland than in Akershus. Agricultural policy developments show a decline in the number of livestock in Akershus, Oslo and Eastfold, while food production and livestock production are concentrated in Rogaland. The students at NVH will gain experience and insight into modern and busy livestock farming with today's problems through the department in Sandnes - i.e. in the heart of the country's densest area of production. It is essential that students who are to become veterinarians see, diagnose and treat many different sick animals and receive training in an area of diverse and active livestock farming. Here one avoids spending a lot of time either driving long distances to the patient, in this case the farmed animal, or transporting the animal/patient over long distances to a clinic. This is good both for the farmed animal and for the student or veterinarian. The long transport of farmed animals to large clinics is expensive and not in line with modern animal welfare, and the animals are unlikely to be reset to the original herd after treatment, including: because of the risk of infection. Teaching on disease cases in herds is the modern way to go. It goes without saying that this gives better insight into the current disease problem of active and hectic modern livestock farming. Therefore, it is important to stress that there are not just words without meaning what is in the proposition and in the attitude of the church, education and research committee, that one will follow up and develop the further department in Sandnes. This is both right and important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e643	It's very rare the Stortinget is presented for propositions on two and a half sides. Then it might be particularly alarming that it's just in a matter that's so big and so important and has such a strategic significance that it happens. Several representatives of the government parties have been on the pulpit and have told of the long and thorough process underpinning this proposition. Yeah, that's possible. But first of all, there are also a lot of environments that don't feel like they've been heard in the process. And secondly, if the process has been so long and so thorough, why is it not reflected in the document presented to the Stortinget? The consequences of the decision of the Government to include the Storting are not included in the proposition. Nothing is said about the time perspective for this to happen. Nor is anything said about exactly what costs will be, it's based on estimates that we know are uncertain. The result is that for many years, the veterinary environment will be left to live in uncertainty about exactly what is going to happen, when it is going to happen and what consequences it will have for the environments affected. For me and for the Right, this is not a location case, but it is a big and important professional case. It is precisely from the technical assessments that the representative, Gundersen and I, and the rest of the Røres, have a concern that the proposition is as thin as it is. State Council Aasland says we are going for the most offensive and forward-looking solution. Well, if you look at the international trade panel that the Research Council has put down, on the Dovre report and on the professional assessments, there is not so much to suggest that this is the most forward-looking and best solution. The representative of Gorm Kjernli was concerned with what the previous government said in the revised national budget in 2005. Then it might have been wise to quote whole sentences, not just parts of it. It was also said: ‘The size of the project requires a thorough quality assurance prior to the final conclusion on organisation and location.’; It is precisely this thorough impact assessment that we have been waiting for a long time and that is to form the basis for the decision we are making today. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in my opinion, the government parties are making this a location issue. It's neither the Right nor the Advance Party. When it says in the proposition that location to Ås and co-organization with UMB will mean strengthening a relatively small university, and the Council of State Riis-Johansen stresses that we are adopting a modern and forward-looking university and using extra billions to get a good university at Ås, it is difficult for me to understand that it is the consideration of the veterinary environments at the bottom of the decision we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e670	I am very pleased that today's debate has not been a localization debate, and that it has not been about district policy or about the relocation or relocation of jobs, sail if anyone has tried. "It smells like the Center Party," said Jon Jäger Gåssvatn. I am not quite sure what that smell is like, but if the Progress Party has problems with the smell on this matter, I can recommend a necesary, because skyscrapers and hearing protection obviously already have them in place. After all, it is not possible to come up with professional arguments and to hold a good and factual discussion with such representatives. This is about creating a new and modern research and education institution. There is broad consensus that today's veterinary high school is a too small and vulnerable institution. There is broad consensus in veterinary disciplines about it, and also at the Veterinary College. There is broad consensus here that we need to politically facilitate the creation of larger and more robust research environments. That's what this case is about. Then we disagree whether it makes more sense to link the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to the University of Oslo, or whether it's best to link it to the University of Environment and Life Sciences at Ås. I am sure that both had become professionally good solutions. Let's agree on that. So the government, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have concluded that there are all the benefits of co-location with UMB on Ås. I am pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party has also come to that conclusion. Some have said that the proposition from the Government is too short. That's interesting. It is rare for staging representatives to ask for longer documents. This matter has been going on for many years. Don't pretend this started with the government proposition. The size has asked for investigations several times of the two options, which has also been included in the right. Now there is no need for further investigations. Now there is a need to make decisions. The University of Environment and Life Sciences is the Green University of Norway. That's what Stortinget has decided. The Ås environment is an exciting educational and research environment. Now it's going to be an even better environment. Ås is at the forefront of environmental science, life sciences, aquaculture research, fisheries research and food research, to mention something. Those who say that Ås is cow and sheep have really understood nothing of what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e685	So far in this debate I have not heard one professional argument for moving veterinary medicine and veterinary research to Ås, nor from previous speakers. The only reason we get is that we want to strengthen the environment at Ås, that is, at the former agricultural college. So to do that, you're willing to weaken the medical identity of the veterinarians. There is a risk of destroying veterinary research, and billions of money are spent on relocating an educational institution and a research institute 38 km within the Oslo and Akershus press area. This is also done while the proposals of the STEM on university and higher education structures are being consulted, and through an urgent proposal which does not take into account the professional advice given to the Government itself. The conclusion was drawn first. The veterinary environment is going to Ås, cost what it will cost, otherwise, after an original proposal from a former representative from the Left, Terje Johansen, who - not unexpectedly - is from just Ås. The Ministry and the Committee have chosen to remain silent in the government's own KS1 report, i.e. technical and economic recommendations on which policy decisions shall be based. The Dovre report was ordered by the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Finance and its recommendation was submitted on 19 January 2006. It's crystal clear in its conclusion. The disciplines growing at the Veterinary College are fisheries and farming, biomedicine, food safety and sport and family animals. The Dovre report states that it is important that the veterinarians are in an integrated environment with the Faculty of Medicine, Food and Drug Administration and Folkehelsa. Both professionally and economically, the Dovre report recommends that the Veterinary College be in the integrated environment they are currently in. Veterinarians work with food safety, which is largely about our health, public health, based on infectious diseases that start in animals. The environment at Ås, for which I also have great respect, has as its main task food security, providing the country with enough food and developing our food. The Ås environment also works in the food industry. Could it be that a too close link between Ås and Veterinärhögskole could mean that the goat fits the oat sack? Of course, the veterinary environment and Ås must cooperate, but they can really do that where they are today, 38 km apart!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e694	I agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen, who stressed that this is a nationally important matter. Yeah, that's for me too. It is about the biggest issue of industrial development and value creation in Norway, namely how we manage to develop biotechnology and biomedicine, which is estimated by the OECD to be 40 pst. by the world economy in a few years - around 2050. Norway is currently lagging behind in this area. The greatest hope and potential we have lies in the environment around the University of Oslo, the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, the National Health Institute, Ullevål University Hospital, the Veterinary College, the Veterinary Institute and the Food Authority. The last one was moved to this environment a few years ago, on the basis of the need for proximity and concentration, which is just now needed: a concentrated effort on the best environments in order to have something important to live on in the future, namely biomedicine and biotechnology. When the government suddenly, according to the media, as a result of a drag fight on the protection of Trillemarka and other matters, moves an important part of the biomedical environment out of this cluster, unfortunately, there is a striking lack of strategy for the development of biotechnology and the biomedical environments in Norway. If such major questions are to be determined in the future by narrow localization interests and packages of à la Trillemarka, we are on very thin ice. It is particularly disappointing that representatives of the various parties in Akershus, who have, in many contexts, agitated strongly for overall economic development in the region, for the aggregation of Oslo and Akershus even, are able to get involved in such a slender draw. It's strange, when you're going to invest in research and highly specialized technology, that you're going to bet NOK 2.4 billion on this. In the proposition, there's something strange: ‘One will reduce the difference, if any, in costs between the two options.’ I don't understand that way of thinking. Property is capital that can be used for anything. For example, if you need money to upgrade the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute, you could do that. if you have free property in Ås that you don't have to build on, sell it and use the money to invest in the Adamstuen in the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute. One could sell the property in the Adams room if one had desperately needed capital, used the income of it to clean up there and lease the land back, etc. Anyone knows that this is state strategic property that has an independent value for the state and cannot be included in any calculations of where it costs most to develop the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute, in Ås or in Oslo. The difference between the options is NOK 1.4 billion. It should be used for things other than a trail that goes in the wrong direction in terms of biotechnology and biomedicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e712	I think there are few who are opposed to spending money in the university and higher education sectors. That's required. But it's especially that it's now going to spend $1.2 billion on moving a veterinary environment out of the biomedical axis it's in -- against its own will. This is, therefore, contrary to the Ministry of Knowledge's own report, the Dovre report and the international evaluation of the Research Council. For us on the Oslo bench, it is absolutely essential that the integrity and integrity of the Veterinary College be maintained. In this way, the proposition is alarming, especially in relation to the signals we have received from the Minister in the media, for example. in the Evening Post recently. It is considered that the list of priorities for construction should be established. The rectors of the major universities, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, are concerned about this move. Although the priority list is to be established, they see that this resource use must be at the expense of other investments in the university sector. The fact that this priority list is established means that a move of the Veterinary College will take eight to ten years. We are concerned about fragmentation and division of the research environments in that process, if it is so that integration of the Veterinary College at the University of Ås should start immediately. It is reasonably obvious that there is a strengthening of the environment in Ås that is the motive here. If you have seen and followed in the debate that has taken place today, everyone who has argued for a move has based on what benefits the environment in Ås. All of them! They haven't talked about what will serve the Veterinary College, the Veterinary Institute and the biomedical environment. That's a little lucky. As you can see, the Committee's attitude is somewhat better. It states that veterinary training is to be continued as an overall professional training course, and it also states that no move should take place until new buildings are completed at Ås. I would like to ask the Minister to confirm that it is in this way that it is going to happen. I'm still waiting to hear the heavy professional arguments for moving. I have seen many heavy professional arguments against through the reports I referred to instead. It becomes obvious to think that there is no development of the veterinary professions that has been important in this matter, and that is a terrible sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e726	We are now dealing with a very big move and an investment case, but we are also dealing with a matter that is largely about how to develop an important professional environment in the future. Finally, when developing a professional environment, it is quite common to listen to the environment in question. In this case, the veterinarians, as it may be well known, are at the heart of Norwegian food security, believe that the best thing for their environment, for their subjects and for public health is that Norway's veterinary high school is located and further developed in the Adamstuen in the important environment that is there. This, in their opinion, is the best and most forward-looking solution. I think it's very strange that there are so many people in this room who know better than they know how to develop their environment in order to get a most forward-looking solution. As representatives of Oslo, we're here now, I understand, accused of running only a localization fight. I don't think that's the case. Of course, we're busy with jobs, but Oslo has a lot of jobs, so that's essentially not what it's about. We are committed to helping an important environment in our area to develop further. Norway's veterinary high school wants closer cooperation with the University of Oslo, and the University of Oslo wants closer cooperation with Norway's veterinary high school. One also sees the proximity of those environments when one sees how much research is driven in cooperation here. Then it should be obvious to most people that this kind of cooperation is getting harder when you can't go over the street anymore and talk to each other, but you have to drive 4 miles. It is actually a practical obstacle in everyday life. I am also quite surprised that the EU now chooses to merge two environments that, after a painful experience, it chose to split. It is important that veterinary education remains an independent education, and I am at least happy to see that this is taken care of in the position, even though it was initially not in the proposition of the Stortinget. I agree with those who say that this only happens to strengthen UMB. If one had strengthened Norway’s veterinary high school and the important environment there, closer cooperation with UiO would have been sought. I also think the concern that Oslo now has from various representatives that they do not want us to have such dangerous sources of infection in the middle of our city is touching. We're not afraid, so you don't have to be!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e743	In most localisation debates - and this has gradually become a localization debate - most arguments are obviously valid. The argument here is that when the distance between the new Ås institution and the Food Agency and Folkehelsa now becomes 2.5 to 3 miles, it becomes too large and could destroy this environment. It is also argued that it will weaken our preparedness for the fear of bioterrorism, because scientists do not eat lunch together in the same way as before, and it will destroy the veterinary research environment. These are clearly arguments that are common in this debate, and that is to shoot far, far beyond the goal. I also think that we should all perhaps be a little more sober in the debate. I think that food security is completely independent of whether the institution is located where it is today, or whether it's moving to Ås. I don't think there's going to be much more innovation and more activity in terms of jobs either because the Veterinary Institute and the Veterinary College are now moving to Ås. Then there's a fundamental thing that I feel is being lost in the debate, and there's more to the educational and research policy, the strategic goals that we have. What do we really want from education policy and research policy, strategically? I'm quite convinced that one of the biggest challenges we're facing is to think about building environments -- building research environments, building educational environments. I don't think we're going to see many small environments in the future that compete -- I think we need to think strategically about building research and education environments. And in that context, I think it's important to think about building a research and education environment on Ås, strengthening this environment that we have on Ås, building it up. The University of Oslo is basically big and heavy. It is Norway's largest research and education environment. Their challenge is more about sharpening their skills, sharpening their research efforts. With this move, we are able to build up and strengthen this research and education environment at Ås. That is, in fact, the most important thing. When we discuss this, we also have to say that it is not just at the University of Oslo and at Ås that we are dealing with biomedicine and biotechnology. We have strong environments at the University of Bergen, and we do have relatively good environments at the University of Tromsø, so we must not pretend to have a biomedical and biotechnological environment that is strong, that it is located at the University of Oslo, and that this will now be severely weakened. It is then poorly known how Norway is organised, educational policy and research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e758	Unfortunately, I have no doubt that moving NVH and VI to Ås means depriving and reducing the competence of veterinary food safety. Through the proposal that the Government is now making, Norway is in the process of making exactly the same mistake as it did in the EU, with the result that we had massive outbreaks of salmonella and cow disease and antibiotic resistance. The EU made sense towards the end of the 1990s, taking animal health and food safety out of agriculture, which has led to a significant increase in the safety of food from the EU in recent years. Although the opposition to the EU is strong within the Government, at least we must be able to learn from the mistakes made by the EU and not make the same losses here at home. However, if it is still the case that the Government does not care about what is happening in the EU, they should, for shame, listen to the World Health Organisation, or to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. Both these bodies recommend separating animal health and food safety from agriculture. But the government clearly believes that they know better. One of the reasons for moving is that you want to strengthen a new little university at Ås, we've heard more say. What started as a matter of strengthening veterinary medicine and a need for clinic and pathology building, ends up as a matter of strengthening a small university. This is going to be tragic. The government's decision is a pure horse trade, where the Center Party has received NVH, while SV got Trillemarka. For the Center Party, and I can also bring the representative Myrli, it may seem that a veterinarian is essentially a person standing with the whole arm far in the back of a cow. There is nothing to be expected then but that there are agricultural interests and farmed animals that receive all the attention. There are very few professional reasons that support the Government's proposal, so this can be called simply a political overrun. All professional, independent investigations and advice ordered and paid by the political environment are disregarded, and power prevails. The party of progress is often accused by the other parties of pursuing irresponsible economic policies, because we see no point in locking ourselves into the famous rule of action. But when we last Wednesday saw a government that in an evening hour and with a pen stroke sweated by hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars, and that in this case is willing to wipe out more than a thousand million dollars, I am not in doubt who is acting responsibly. The entire university and higher education sector is screaming for the restoration of the plentiful partition of the government under the Djupedal. So far they haven't gotten back the 274 million. kr that was cut. So today, the same batches are going to spend more than three times as much money on this movement process, which, professionally speaking, will weaken the overall veterinary medicine. Today, we have the world's best animal health and a unique food safety situation in Norway, for which we can greatly thank the veterinarians. This is the government's intention to gamble with. In this case, unfortunately, social interests have to give way to political games, prestige and horse trafficking. With the proposals of the Advance Party, we will have the necessary peace in the veterinary environment and the necessary expansion can be achieved much earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e775	I have recorded that the Right in any case is going to vote against moving here today. I think it's a very bad thing, all the time they've actually been proposing it themselves, in 2005, and despite the fact that both the district spokesman in Akershus, who is from the Right, and local people in Follo from the Right, also support it. Nevertheless, choose Right here on the Stortinget to vote against. I don't fully understand their logic. I'm just forced to say it. It might have to be better now to have a decision so that the process can start. Therefore, it is very gratifying that both the Left and the Christian People's Party support the move. The working party is for moving. There should be no doubt about it. Now we have heard from some representatives that there are differences in food security and food security. I want to say that this is actually very interconnected, because just by strengthening the whole value chain, we can secure safe food, which is one of the most important things. I have heard that someone has expressed concern that biomedical research should not be prioritised. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will follow up on the work on strengthening biomedicine, in line with international developments. It is important to get us more knowledge about diseases that can be transmitted between animals and humans, and about infections and diseases that can be transmitted to humans through food. As the leader of the Workers' Party in the nutrition committee, I'm very busy having people access to clean and safe food. This is actually strengthened by a new, merged university. Then there'll be talk about the development of nutrition. This is actually that. A good example of that is the food industry. I think the university will be good for the green sector and agriculture, and not least for the blue-green sector. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has set itself the goal of Norway becoming one of the leading innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in the areas where we take advantage. These areas include: marine sector, energy and environment, travel and maritime sector. This option will do something about the move to Ås and UMB.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e788	The previous speaker said that the Labour Party supports the move, there is no doubt about it. I think the debate and some posts before the representative Eldegard indicated a never-ending doubt in the Labour Party. For the Council of State and for the Government, it must be serious to hear the fact that own batch traps actually give the proposition you have made. Although the majority also support the proposition, both my party and the Left express that it is not because of the professional content of the proposition you support this, but despite it. That's what I think makes the whole thing come into a very strange light, when it's so important things that actually have to be decided through this organization of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute. For my part, another report, which is somewhat more than two and a half pages, namely the Dovre report, weighs heavily. It is quite clear in its recommendation on what is best in the further organisation of higher education. Then it's safe to eat. It's going on biomedicine, not least, and on the suspicious aspects of the removal case for the emergency. I might not have said so much about it if this was a sector that had flown with money, but in a situation where the government in general has had a real growth within the budgets that actually lacks equality, this sector has stood on the ground resting and having it famously rested, which at least has become two. So now you can afford to use a place between one and two billion extra dollars for a moving object, instead of using it for professional development. Not only that, but now the Council of State has assured us that the three priority buildings will come first. That is to say, we are facing a vacuum in the case of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute, for perhaps up to ten years. It is a serious responsibility to take on. The biscuit becomes the strongest when we know that this decision is due to the fact that three things have been put in the pot. It's the Veterinary College. It's Trillemarka. And that's the power plant tax. That is what has really resolved this matter, which means that the representative Nybakk could say that the conclusion had been drawn in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e797	The representative Myrli from the Workers' Party went quite high on the job in his post and attacked both me and the representative Gåsvatn in order not to really understand any of what this matter is about. I think he said something like that it is not possible to get arguments and have a factual discussion. Just that phrase I've heard many times, but always I've heard it about the government's proposal. I have heard that it has been difficult to come forward with factual arguments and factual discussions in this area. It was then a pleasant experience when the Workers' Party's Nybakk was the next speaker and she could establish that she had not heard any factual arguments or professionally heavy arguments to move NVH and VI to Ås. She was also not convinced by the government's two-three sides to the Storting. What is the reality is that the representative Sverre Myrli did not just attack the Progress Party, because the Progress Party actually agrees with the representatives Nybakk, Bøhler, Marthinsen and Wickholm from this pulpit today - and all these representatives represent the Sverre Myrlis party. And then to stand here with great pathos and say that here there are only a few people who understand something, I think that's something special. But that is what this debate is all about. This is a position that emerges from several other representatives as well. The representative Rikvam said that there are really none of the arguments I have heard today that are commonable. The only argument that was valid was his own argument, and it was that moving was going to happen because of the long-term strategic political leaders. I see that the representative is nodding, so I guess that's the correct reference. At least then we know that there is one argument that counts in this case, and that is the representative of Rikvams, and that is also the government proposal. So now we're in a situation that's probably the worst case scenario. Now it becomes an administrative aggregation, while the actual physical aggregation is far out in the blue. It does not strengthen professional environments in any of the locations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e806	First I'll refer to my previous post, and then I'll actually give the committee praise. Although I totally disagree with the conclusions of the committee position, I would like to commend the majority for having taken the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute seriously - after all. The committee setting determines the integrity and integrity of the Veterinary College, including the veterinary study as a course of study, and that the move is to take place only when new constructions - notice the majority form - are ready. This is in stark contrast to the proposition of the department and to the original wishes of Ås to take the different subjects at the Veterinary College and spread them at different institutes at Ås - thus destroying the veterinary study and the veterinary environment. I assume that the Council of State in the follow-up will deal with the decision of the Storting, and will ask that she respond to it. So back to professional. The Agricultural Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture states in its opinion that the transfer of the Veterinary College to the UMB is a professional error and will undermine the development of the fisheries and aquaculture industry, which is still a competitive industry, but which has a role in global context to meet the need for marine food in the diet for a significant proportion of the earth’s population. Norway has a role here. The FHL states that the objectives of extracting the potential of aquaculture and fisheries must not be taken away from veterinary education and research in the marine sector, and concludes that the veterinary environments must be connected to the other biomedical environments of the University of Oslo. The strongest impression on me has been an article in the newspaper of Preben Boisen. He says that diseases like HIV/AIDS, ebola, tuberculosis, etc. originally derived from animals. It also includes new flu variants. Wide range of medical knowledge across species has always played a crucial role in detecting, preventing and preventing the spread of such diseases. Today, the veterinary profession is the only profession that specializes in this. The veterinary profession is primarily a socio-medical profession. If the veterinarians miss the proximity of the human medicine profession, they also lose knowledge of the border country between veterinary medicine and human medicine. Then it might be worth remembering, as others have said before, that in countries where veterinary education has moved to high school, veterinary prostheses have gone wrong, and the environment has had to be broken up again after some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e819	Since there are certain approaches to civil war between Oslo and Akershus, there is reason to recall the following: Oslo Teknopol is an organisation covering the whole of the Oslo region. It is concerned with a difficult, important part of Norway, where there is a development of nutrition. In the Norum Committee, everyone agrees that no matter what solution you choose, whether you leave the Veterinary College where it is located, or move it to the UMB, you have to have a triangular cooperation between the University of Oslo, the University of Environment and Life Sciences and the veterinary environment. Everyone agrees. So it almost sounds like -- I'm not going to go into that debate -- that someone thinks there's a risk of bioterrorism. We haven't located everything in Oslo center that's about combating it. Someone was talking about infection. After that, you almost felt that the security of the country was in total danger, that the Stortinge almost discussed a vulnerability analysis - something you'll get later. I guess this is just an expression that the temperature is high, but those who have been calm and the nights, who now the representative Nybakk was in the last post, have stated: yes, it is true that the majority have said that the veterinary environment is interrelated, and that is what it is. It is true that this also applies to the Veterinary Institute. It is also so, with the knowledge I have of the University of Oslo, which is a very good university, that around it it has grown what is called Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is excellent biomedical research - in collaboration with some excellent researchers and after efforts in the field of medicine, which also promotes business. I personally think it becomes very strange that when we are in the heart of Norway, we begin to make the distance between Oslo and UMB almost an insurmountable barrier. I remember someone in North Norway promoting the idea of Universitas Borealis. Those who made it live in Nesna, and it's a significant distance from Nesna to Tromsø. The idea that now exists around the universities of the Oslo area - including the University of Oslo, the University of Environment and Life Sciences, the University of Oslo and the University of Akershus - is to operate with networks. These have chosen to engage in binding networking, because they see synergies. UMB, for its part, has networked with the ETUC in Eastfold and colleges elsewhere in the East. Now you don't have to talk about this in a way that this shouldn't happen. I have basically a little bit of a twist on this, and that's that with the pressure and commitment that now two parties have put themselves in the hall, it has to be that you can't stand and stand in a bleak list of university buildings that haven't received money, or equipment you haven't got money for. In any case, the pressure in this case is such that someone has to spend money that does not exist. If you have to bite over an empty crayon first, it won't be much anyway. Then there will be no renewal in the Adams room either. I think what's going to come out of this confrontation is that there's going to be a fight to make sure that the research gets resources and money, and that you also look at the synergy in the Oslo and Akershus areas and generally in the Eastern region. It's almost strange to listen to those parts of the debate that are criticising the professional, who decide whether to choose a location primarily from the biomedical point of view, or according to the reasons I've chosen to do it. It's a substantive debate, it's a disagreement, and it gets to stand there, but what comes in addition, I think mildly said is to create a different landscape than what I'm in. Finally, the former representative, Terje Johansen, comes from Frogn. I will not insult the representative Nybakk to say that she comes from Smedstua or Ullern or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e836	The debate got a different temperature when the representatives from the Oslo Workers' Party took the train into the hall, a bit out of the debate. That's why they might not have gotten a part of the argument that was put forward in calm forms earlier. I also notice that someone focuses one-sidedly on the so-called Dovre report, while for example. The Norum report and the Research Council report, which has much more nuanced conclusions, are not at all worth paying attention. I also record that it is experienced this way from someone, obviously, that UMB is today a pure agricultural and manufacturing interest university. I wonder if the representatives who say that have been at UMB. I showed in my post something that was perhaps overlooked in that context, that the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås has graduated approximately. half of the doctoral candidates in aquaculture. So it represents an important factor in that context, and it also has a broad research environment in that area. As a localisation debate, this is primarily a debate on the synergies we have in coordinating the small environments we have in the food field in terms of food safety, production and biomedicine. That's what you've come up with, and that's what forms the basis for the conclusions that have been drawn. Then I am personally, at least as Akershus' representative, a hot figure for Oslo and Akershus to become one region. The representative of Bohemia mentioned that, and I hope that more people in the future will see this region become an innovative region and also solve the societal challenges for our citizens, we need to learn to see the opportunities together, more than the specific interests of each. It's a challenge that makes us at least help to make the environments that we have that can become top-notch nationally and perhaps globally become it, and not fight for them to be small, individually and alone, and that Oslo and Akershus remain a region that is primarily an administrative region, not a producing region.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e847	There is no majority in this Chamber for the transfer of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute from Oslo to Ås. It is likely to be a large majority against it. This is due to professional assessments, the reports read and the costs of the transfer. The costs are estimated to be SEK 1.1-2 billion, and according to the government's rhetoric, this is going to compete with other types of costs and other things to be financed from the government budget. When the rule of action is on the ground, and the government claims that there is pressure in the economy, you can wonder what needs to be down-prioritized to prioritize this move to NOK 1-2 billion. The Government's wish to move shows the Government's true attitude towards Oslo. We've seen countless media reports that Oslo is a priority area for this government, but this is really empty rhetoric. All credit to the Oslo representatives of the Workers' Party, who in the media and through meetings on the Oslo bench have been quite clear in their support of Oslo in this matter. But unfortunately, there is no support in the government, and that is sad. Unfortunately, it is a party that has less than 1 pst in Oslo. digestion, which determines the development of the capital. In truth, it is Oslo's research environment and the staff at the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute that have to pay the price for the government's choosing to protect Trillemarka. It seemed strange: what biomedicine and biotechnology have to do with forest protection must be a red-green state council to understand. Of course, all the government councils are extremely pleased with the results. Because when you have your feet in the oven and your head in the freezer, you have the average perfect. We've got a solution for Trillemarka that no one in the community wants, and we've got a solution for biomedicine and biotechnology that no one in charge of the trade union community wants. That's what I call the perfect compromise madness. It's no wonder that political disdain is increasing in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e860	Fortunately, there is a long time between each time a government has the courage to submit such a poorly reasoned proposal to the Stortinget, and at such a pointless time. Let me take the time first. This proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget immediately before the government-appointed Stjernø Committee, which will draw up the structures of the future with regard to the Norwegian university and higher education system, delivers its position. The government has therefore wanted to avoid this issue being considered in the context of future policies for higher education and research in Norway. Another aspect at the time is that the move operation that is at the heart of the proposal could be carried out in 10 years’ time at the earliest. It makes it mildly enigmatic why it was about doing for the Government to present this to the Storting as a matter of urgency, and with a proposition that is so syllable in terms of professional justification, as this proposition is. So to the professional questions, if this co-location had been proposed 30 years ago, it would have been professionally justified. Had it been proposed 20 years ago, it would have been professionally justified. Had it been proposed ten years ago, it could have been argued for it. When you propose it in 2008, it's directly backwards. All the development lines, research and professional, go in the opposite direction to what the Government uses for its proposal. In this situation, there is really only one thing Stortinget can do with self-respect, namely to send the case back and ask the government to do a real job. It is generally accepted that when a student comes up with a non-target response, the student gets the answer back home with a message to try again. There is no brutal pedagogy - that is on the contrary a statement of confidence, that is, trust in doing better. The majority must, with respect to reporting, show confidence in the new Council of State and in this government that they are able to do a better job than they have done with this case. You don't lose any time by doing it that way, you lose nothing in terms of professional review and solid justification. Therefore, I cannot see a single sensible argument against asking the Government to do a real job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e872	In my first post I was, I think, clear in relation to the place of biomedicine in Norway. It's a high-priority research area that has nothing to fear by moving the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to Ås. From a number of speakers here today, it has been stressed how important it is for this particular field to develop. This is also the intention when we want to develop a larger and more robust research environment in life sciences and biotechnology. We want research communities in Norway to take a leading role in international research projects in this area. Then we have to have robust environments, and we get that by setting up a new, green university at Ås. We're talking about interdisciplinary and holistic research. By bringing together the environments of Ås, with a focus on food, health and the environment, we achieve that. I've heard a lot of arguments against moving today, but I haven't heard anything new that tells me that we who decide to move the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute do something that will be irretrievably damaging to biomedical research or veterinary medicine in Norway. The cooperation between the new university and the University of Oslo will continue as before, and I support the representative Dørum that we must not talk here today as if this cooperation should cease. Of course, it should continue and develop further. So I would say that I take a great deal of distance from the term "horse trade" in this case -- that the development of an integrated university at Ås is a result of the protection of Trillemarka, which became known the same day. It is disrespectful of us who have been involved in serious work within the Committee, and with the desire to develop a university and research environment with a professional environment to promote and ensure food safety and animal health in the future. Finally, I would like to express my hope that, when this day is over, we will all go into the process of creating a new, green university with the aim of ensuring food safety and good animal health in the future, and, in addition, ensuring good veterinary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e885	The majority decided in 1988 that the main aerodrome should be located on Hurum. It should teach the Storting something about how to set up the premises so that this kind of decision-making does not change. I want to say it again -- I hear the Norum Committee is quoted so many times, and the Norum Committee actually gave very clear emphasis to the fact that when the decisions are taken, money must also be given, and the decision must be taken. Now we actually have eight to ten years before the decision is taken. The Storting should learn a little bit from that. So to the representative Eldegard, who in and of itself repeats what Kernli was into, that Eriksen rejected, but I can repeat it once again. What was on the right and said in the previous period was: ‘The size of the project requires a thorough quality assurance prior to the final conclusion on organisation and location. The further follow-up to the case will be submitted to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» The last sentence can actually be read out of the landfill proposal today, so you have not done the job that was expected in relation to the seriousness of the matter. And when Myrli talks about a short proposition, I'm talking about a thin proposition. These are two very different things. It's an art of writing cards and stuff, but there's no art of writing a thin and empty proposition, and that's this proposition relative to what we're actually dealing with. The debate has also shown that there are many people who express themselves about crystal-clear attitudes about things that the professional expert really cannot say. This is a strategy for the 30-40 years of the veterinary profession. Developments have gone quite unambiguously in the medical and diagnostic direction, and we are making a decision that links it to a particular industrial interest in Norway. I think that is rather tough when it comes to assessing the future of an entire environment. I expected that to be taken over, that this is comprehensive strategy work. It is about determining the long-term future of an entire environment, and it is also about where Norway is going to be in a very important nutrient-oriented direction in the future. There I have actually not seen anything that makes me able to conclude today. That is why I stand by what we have said, that this should be investigated, and you should come back on the day you are willing to follow up the decision with appropriations. So to this that four miles doesn't mean so much. Well, that's probably true, but then it should apply both ways. Now we're actually spending billions of dollars on something that, according to that reasoning, doesn't really matter. There should be little thought for the majority sitting and adopting something that should not be put into action within eight to ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e899	It's been an interesting debate and a debate with temperature. In all modesty, I would like to underline the political basis for the Government's proposals, as I have said in this Chamber earlier. This is in line with my party SV's opinion and wish in this case and has been so for a long time. The case has been dealt with in detail in SV, as in the other government parties and also in other parties, and this is the background to the proposal. I have loyally followed it up and have had the aim of getting a good future for Norway's veterinary high school. It is the veterinary professional interests and their future that have been the starting point for the assessments, analyses and hearings that I have also had as the Council of State. There is a strong, clear leadership to develop the veterinary professions and to strengthen them with food safety and animal health, which is the central issue. Then I recognize that there are different professional views. It is a professional view that draws it all in the direction of human health, and a professional view that draws it more towards animal health towards biophasics. When both parties believe that they do not get any professional arguments for their views, a bit independent of their own position, it becomes a little difficult to get through this. The government has made a decision, and we have had an unusually good process with both committee and other actors afterwards. I agree that the proposition is not on so many pages, but I still believe it is rich enough. There are references to a number of investigations and suggestions for the Storting, which are also known to the Storting and which have been elaborated in the process. What has been crucial is a very strong desire, regardless of the professional position, for a decision to be taken. Going on even more desert-free hikes for a long, long time without having made a decision is at least devastating for all the professional environments involved here. That's why it was an important goal for me to make a quick decision, of course on the basis of hearing the actors and putting me in the case, but I'm going to make a confession to Jan Bøhler. I recognise that both in the proposition and in a question-hour round here in Stortinget, you could be clearer about the alternative costs. Jan Bøhler has pointed out that it should also have been admitted that Ås has some alternative costs for land with which it has been calculated in relation to Oslo. I fully understand that. But in a future perspective and a further development beyond what we see in today's Adamstua situation, it would be significantly more expensive and difficult in Oslo than in Ås, where, after all, there are opportunities for the future also purely empty. [[The President clubs.]] To Marit Nybakk in the end, I would like to say that of course I follow up on the Committee's comments. It was just supposed to be missing. I think it's been a good process. [[The President clubs.]] I think the committee has done a good job. So I'll follow it up and thus give the environments that are going into the new situation, the basis and the independence that they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e914	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e917	This became a localization debate - after the debate continued and everyone from the Oslo bench came in, and almost everyone argued to maintain today's location. In general, the arguments are non-professional, such as location. So there's been a localization debate. When I listen to the debate, I'm a little surprised, because I feel that someone doesn't quite have a concept of how the research environment works and works together, across institutions and across institutional boundaries. A founding centre for excellent research across institutions. A founder and bet on top environments and environments of competence. That's the way a worker works, the way a worker works, and the way we want to strengthen Norwegian research. The Star Row Selection adds a different model. The Star Island Committee provides for a pooling of institutions, but will largely maintain today's campus system, with a reduction in campus numbers, but will merge institutions. That's their model. I think it's a bad model. I think it's a very bad model, if you go in for the Star Island Committee layout. Then this is what we now have to do, which is a commitment to building a new, strong environment of competence in Ås. This doesn't mean much to the University of Oslo. It means almost nothing to the University of Oslo, which is basically the heaviest and most important research and education institution we have. For the Ås environment this will be important, and for the veterinary environment it will also be important to enter a common campus, a common institution, with the Ås environment. It should be the most important, and it should be crucial. If we want to build research environments, we want to build heavy and strong educational environments -- if the answer to that is yes, this makes sense. Then I fundamentally disagree with Inge Wage that says this is going the opposite way to what we should do -- even though it's historical, if we go back 20-30 years, maybe it could make sense -- and today this is unreasonable. I'm fundamentally in disagreement. This makes sense, because it's a way to think about when we're going to build strong and good educational and research environments that can also be involved and compete internationally for research resources. So this is a future path, this is a right path, unlike what the Star Island Committee recommends as a future road. Finally, one draws up the Dovre report, and there's one report, one professional report -- important recordings, dear friends -- but we also have other reports. We have the Norum committee, which was a combination of a professional assessment and some other assessments. They concluded differently. So the professional evaluations will probably crack anyway. The choices we are making now are political choices about what Research Norway and Education Norway will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e930	When I allowed myself to remember that the timing of the presentation of the proposal by the Government was strange, it was by reference to the Starø Committee's report being just around the corner. I'm not going to go into any discussion about the Starø Committee's proposal, because we're going to have a chance to do that at a later stage, but it's peculiar that an important single issue is going to be dealt with without a second glance at all the structural issues of the higher education and research of the future in Norway. It's pretty separate. It may seem that it has been for the Government to take a decision in this matter without looking into the principles to be followed in the future in terms of higher education and research. The council said that long and desertless hikes without a decision are bad. I agree. But there is one thing worse, and there are long and desertless hikes with a decision in the backpack that is as poorly justified as the government decision has invited the Stortinget to make. This is the worst situation you can face as a political decision-maker, and above all, it is the worst case scenario you can put the environments in that are going to live with such a long process like this. I want to insist that the Storting would do both the Government and itself a favor by giving the Council of State a chance to do a better job, and I'm sure she would do it, for a worse job than the one that's done, it's impossible to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e939	I fully agree with Mr Gundersen's reasoning as to why the matter should be sent back to the Government. I also think that Inge Wohnning's emphasis on the mystery of why the matter has to be promoted now, and that there is no time to phase it into the Government's investment programme in this area, are very striking and good points. The representatives of the Labour Party from Oslo will vote in favour of the proposal for a return to the Government, and if that is not the result, we will vote for localisation to be in Oslo. It's important to note that all of the Oslos, minus one party, have signaled that you're against this movement -- all of the districts of the different parties. I have also been asked, on behalf of Oslo SV, to tell you that Oslo SV is against the move and is in favour of the Veterinary Institute being at Adamstuen. It was claimed by one Oslo representative, the representative of Dørum, that this is not an insurmountable barrier. I think Mr Gundersen's answer to that was very good: then the insurmountable barrier must apply both ways. And then there can't be any reason why you're going to spend $1.4 billion on moving one way. It's said that distance doesn't matter anything, but that means that you spend $1.4 billion more. I am pleased with the appropriate attitude of the Council of State in relation to my reasoning that the sale of property in the Adams Room could not be counted in favour of the calculation of the costs in Ås. I also believe that a route is being created for many employees, and that the biotechnological/biomedical environment that requires a high concentration of Norway will be fragmented into anything in the future. There is evidence that many things happen in other universities, too, but it must be remembered that the other universities have expressed concern about adding SEK 2.4 billion to investments in Ås - which will mean total investment in the research and higher education sector in Norway. The greatest danger of a desert-free trek here is obviously the adoption of a decision that is ill-informed, which is not based in the Oslo departments of the large parties, which many on the Stortinget are opposed to, and which is likely to be carried in approximately. 10 years to come. What the fate of this decision will be like in the long run is uncertain, and I would like to see a return rather than a return, in order to provide a better basis for the decision and treatment than we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e956	I think the representative Rolf Rikvam said the redeeming words in his last post: we're making a political choice. Of course, we make political choices when we sit in the main hall, but they have to be based on solid, professional foundations. And that's exactly what the problem is in this case: the environments related to veterinary research and medicine, both NVH and others, are just as uncertain today as they were before 11 January, when the proposition was presented, on what future will bring to the veterinary environments in Norway, precisely because the government does not take any consequences of its own decision. And that's unfortunately in this context -- since we have a majority government -- not up to the Storting to get a lot of work done. It is something that the Government must bear the responsibility for the sea. And then I think it's special that the decision we're about to make today really gets stuck in the loose air. There is no money involved, there is no order of priority for construction, there is nothing to do with supporting this decision, so that it can be implemented and have a short-term impact on the environment. When the Right and the other government parties in the previous government said that the size of the project required a thorough quality assurance before the final conclusion on organisation and location was reached, it was serious. In the proposition we have in front of us, it's clear that the sizes of numbers used are estimates. It is clearly stated that the most profitable options are not chosen, and not least that there is a preliminary estimate of the investment costs presented here. In addition, we know that since then there has been a lot of construction costs, and also after the reports on which they were based were submitted. So there's a lot of uncertainty about actual costs, and I think that's a serious point that we have to take note of when we're now discussing a setup and a move in the billions class, but we don't know exactly how much it's going to cost, and we don't know what the professional consequences are going to be. So the Right is asking for this proposition to be returned to the Government. To give a brief explanation of vote: the right will support its own proposal and will vote against both the vote and other proposals, simply because we believe that there is no basis for taking a decision on the basis of the proposition submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e965	It is a little difficult to get some of the debaters to understand that the government's decision is actually taken on a professional basis. Of course, any government decision will be a political decision. Any decision that comes from a political body will be. But this decision is made on a professional basis. The problem here is just that there are different professional views, and so you put different emphasis on what is the right professional basis. There are two ways of development, and that is the one path on which the Government has chosen to build its starting point. Well, there's a bunch of scary images here. There are people who have been involved with this with the goat and the oat bag. I would like to say to you that it is not possible to distinguish between what are control functions, what are professional interests, and what are commercial interests, that I trust that the role of these actors - both the University of Environment and Life Sciences, which Ås is today, and the new university, where the veterinary college of Norway becomes an important part, and the Veterinary Institute as a unit to be maintained, but which is to be co-located - is doing so in relation to the important challenges, for example. food security, good. It is absolutely necessary for any preparedness and for any handling of such situations to clarify the roles to be played. It's whether the distance is like this or not, because in such situations distance often doesn't matter. I trust that this environment that we are going to make a strong contribution to development will be a robust and good environment that will also be able to take and have a basis for that kind of role clarification. I would also like to stress that there is, of course, a pressure to get this case in place when it comes to investment. I imagine two important parallel processes. One is based on what the majority of the committee in the vote clearly states that an interim board should be set up which assumes an overall responsibility for the proper functioning of the organisational process. I think that makes a lot of sense, and I'm going to, as I said in my post, help to support this. The second is that parallel to that, of course, there is a process that deals with what kind of buildings and what kind of material structure you're most served with in order to achieve this in the best possible way. There's nothing to tell me that we're going to wait with any of this. On the contrary - there should be a pressure for this to come up. But we have a never so small priority list that currently consists of three projects that come forward in time. I hope, of course, that they come quite quickly. I am not in doubt that this is going to be a good and good process if all the actors now add the broad side and really want to achieve the important goals that lie in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e978	The representative Rikvam has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e981	I registered that the representative Boehler informed us that decisions that do not have support in the largest parties in Oslo will end with a desertless migration. I also registered that he said that after he had informed me what Oslo SV meant about the matter. We have dealt with this issue in detail in EN. We've dealt with it in our big group, and we've concluded after a thorough debate, just so that it's also informed about, after we got to know Oslo SV's position. What research Norway is going to look like, how we're going to organise Research Norway, it's a political choice. Of course it is! In what other ways are we going to organise Research Norway and Education Norway than through political decisions? It is we who have to make the decisions on how this country should look research and educational. The alternative is that the market should be allowed to decide this for us, and that is, of course, an out-of-date issue for everyone. So these are political decisions about organizing Research Norway, it should just be missing! I think we should be proud that this is how we want it to be. So a little comment to the representative Inge Wohnning that this is bundled through in a short time. This is a process we've been doing for quite a number of years, and we've been discussing the up pillars and down walls, so this isn't a coup, it's a process that's been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e993	Today, the Stortinget adopts an offensive and important decision that shows that we are taking this seriously. We want to invest in further development and pursue a forward-looking solution for veterinary education and research in Norway. This is the background for SV going in to move the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute to Ås. This has been a long process for all games. The SV's decision to go for this decision is professionally justified, because we want to focus on food security and health. We want to strengthen the research environment in the various areas. In today's debate, the issue of fish health and the research environments we've been along our coast has not been much up, but in the setting we're moving both Bergen and Tromsø. It is important that these disciplines are involved in the further development process, because they have a very good and broad competence in these areas. The decision that will be taken today is, as both the Swedish State Council, Tora Aasland and the representative Rolf Reikvam of SV have presented it, based on the professionalism of SV. We're very pleased that the process that's going to start is going well, and that the Department of the Council of State has signaled that they're going to be involved in a good and tidy process. Because, when the decision has been taken in Stortinget today, the process of interim government etc. Go on from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1004	I thought I only had 1 minute, but now I see that I've got 3 minutes, and that's good. I don't know what to do tomorrow, if you're going to follow up what's going on. I think you're going to realize that here it cracks professionally, and I'm not going to persecute much more. However, I record that the Council of State says that the decision has been made on a professional basis. What I also note is that the Council of State does not comment on the uncertainty that is actually being transmitted to the environment. When you say that you have done this on a professional basis, I ask, have you gone to a merger expert and asked about the possibility of succeeding in the process you are now sending these environments into, over an eight-to-ten-year period? It's actually pretty central to how these environments are going to evolve. I have also not heard anyone who has refuted that this is actually going to take eight to ten years. If we look back at the previous state budget, there weren't very many dollars for construction in this sector. I would assume that if you went to someone who had the problem of merging two organizations, you would be very strongly warned about the exact process you're putting up here. With regard to the technical basis, where the veterinary profession goes and everything - there I do not see that the investigations have been carried out. I find this difficult. I also see that there are many arguments for building up UMB, and there are many arguments that break in both directions. There are several people who have said that we want to build strong academic environments. Then you should have spent time on it. And then you should just postpone that decision to the day you're actually willing to follow up the Norum committee's advice, which is that organisational measures have to be implemented, and that you have to follow them up as a grant, so that there is rapid progress in the matter. But the question is, has the government brought in someone who has something to do with merging two organisations, and looked at whether a waiting time of eight to ten years is to recommend?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1019	The President will recall that after Stortinget's Rules of Procedure, the President is given the floor without limitation to three-minute speeches. But it's allowed to use 1 minute! Marit Nybakk has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1024	I asked for the word just to give a brief comment to the representative Rikvam, and that concerns Oslo SV. I have received today a text message from one of the SV's two Oslo representatives, where we from the Oslo Workers' Party were asked to say in this debate that the two representatives from Oslo SV, who are not present here today for various reasons, support return and support the Veterinary University's desire to remain at Adamstuen, including the Veterinary Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1034	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1037	In my parliamentary life, I have not previously been informed of internal relations in government parties in a way that has now happened. I'm just taking note of it. I just took the word to say one thing, that when the Left acts on a matter, we act as a national party. If we can't think of it as a national party, we'll never think of it, for example. When we raise national questions, we could have respect for them, and when national questions are supposed to be taken out geographically, we would never be able to respect them. It's part of the price of politics. For our part, this is a matter that we have now been working on for seven years. We are fully aware, just as the state councillor Tora Aasland said, that different professional lines can be chosen. The fact that there is disagreement about the professional lines is a completely pure-haired matter. And the fact that there's tension along those lines is also a clean-haired thing. It's also true that there's biotechnology in buckets and buckets on UMB, but then you pick one line. So someone could say it's the other line that lies at the University of Oslo. It's going to be all wrong if you make the University of Oslo a place in the backyard. It's not. It is a strong and heavy and excellent environment. It's going to be the same thing if you make UMB that way. It's going to be the same thing if you don't realize that, for example. also at the Veterinary College there are different views, that is a majority and a minority. It's all of these visions that have to be weighed out. Yeah, but it's going to be a political balance. I simply took the word just to say it. I also have to say it this way, without I'm going to draw it into it, that if you think consistently geographically in everything as an argument, there will never be built meaningful alliances. In conclusion, I would say that there would never be an opera in Bjørvika if not a central party council had been far beyond the usual, if one were to think geographically traditional. It's supposed to be national.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1050	No pay has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1053	I can reassure the representative Reikvam that I did not suggest a coup d'état instead. On the other hand, I suggested, and repeat, that it is striking that a government is presenting a structural proposal with as large a reach as this evening before a sample presents its study on the future structure of the higher education sector in Norway. It's a striking timing. Otherwise, I record that SV has learned a lot about the responsibility of being a member of a government, that it places significant restrictions on the freedom of expression on the part of each representative. The council said that she hoped that after taking a decision on this matter, all parties would add the broad side. From my seagoing time in the Norwegian Navy, I have always believed that adding the broad side to it means that you want to fire the cannons. It is at least rare that there is an invitation to peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1062	I did not intend to speak in this debate. I have followed parts of it. I have had different other tasks as well, so I have not received all the posts, but I have registered that there has been some debate at the end of the day. The reason I asked for the floor was that the representative Nybakk started to refer from the SV's group, and then I think it's natural that I, as SV's parliamentary leader, say a little about how we deal with these kinds of questions. It is quite common in the SV's group, I think it is also common in the other groups that we have significant debates on some issues - it should just be lacking in a democracy - whether it is in the collapse group, at a national government meeting or where it may be. But it's also common practice in us, after we've had a vote in the group, that the minority bows to the majority. That's the usual thing. A rare time, especially when it comes to matters of conscience and that kind of thing, you can ask for a different way of getting a vote. But it's in very special cases that we open up for it. With us, party democracy works in such a way that we have open, good debates, and then we make a decision when we vote, and then the minority has to stick to what the majority decides. That's how we work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1069	The last post was a very good post. Several people should put it in memory. Some of the Oslo representatives have kept artificial life in this debate. The bottom line of the debate is, in a sense, criticising the political processes underlying what is being discussed today. It cannot be that one is just for the political processes that benefit one's own political vision. This is the case in politics: sometimes you win with your arguments, sometimes you don't win with your arguments. It's possible to disagree factually, yes, it's actually a necessary part of the political game to disagree factually. But it's also part of the party political game that the minority bows to what the party's democratic bodies adopt. It gets strange when even party traps of me, sitting in the central organs of the party, criticize the political processes that underlie this view. As I said, you can disagree on the matter, but then you have to admit it, and not owe it to the political processes. When you say that there has not been a single argument in the debate today for what is in the majority proposal, it could have been an idea that you were present and listened to the whole political debate, because it has actually been a very good debate, with some exceptions and some derailments. A point has been made about what major party parties believe in this matter. I would then like to say, as the leader of a very large party in Akershus, if there is any interest in what large parties in the county think, that all parties in Akershus, including the Right, the rapporteurs of the Right and the rapporteur-general of the Right, believe that co-location at Ås is the best option. But we have a seaward understanding that there are different opinions in Oslo. Fortunately, this is not a county matter. I fully agree with the representative Dørum that this is too important a matter to be tangled into a geographically party corner. This is a national case. There are good arguments for the Adamstua option, and there are good arguments for the Ås option. Political disagreement is a fair thing in politics. That's the way it has to be. Let's stick to it and not call it anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1081	Unlike the representative Inge Wohnung, who apparently has a past in the Navy, I can't boast of anything like that. I thought it was a general idea that adding the broad side to it was to gather all the good forces. But I can use the expression: we gather all the good forces after the decision is made. I would like to say that I have all the respect for the attitudes I have heard and experienced in contact with the Swedish Veterinary College's management and the fishing health environment after the Government's proposal was presented. I'm convinced that this is going to be okay. I'm convinced that here's a lot of good forces that can play together to get this done in a good way. As far as structural issues are concerned, of course, I am referring to the structure of our universities and colleges that we have today. I'm not aware that it's taken its position to change it by the first. We now have a consultation period after a sample has submitted a recommendation, but here a number of decisions will be taken in the higher education and university sectors that cannot wait until a different position may be taken. We have a structure today that is important, and that I respect, and I deal with it until we decide to decide otherwise. I do not know where the term ‘eight to ten years’ came from. I hope, of course, that it won't be that long to wait. Here's an important thing to realize, and I want to repeat what I said earlier in the posts, that I want to do my best to get two parallel processes going that can start immediately. One is about a good organisational process for the new university, where the Veterinary College is included in the university in a good way so that they of course maintain their professional integrity and everything with the veterinary profession, and the Veterinary Institute becomes part of a co-location. This is a process that is both organisationally demanding and important. It's important to get it started, and at the same time it has to be a process that's about the material, that's to get to the building base with new buildings in such a way that this works perfectly. I hope, of course, that it doesn't take that long. It depends on – as I said to a representative earlier in the debate – the budgetary framework that we receive at all times. But I'm assuming there's going to be a lot of pressure here, and then it's very nice that it's coming. Of course, I'll follow up on that. But I have been clear that there are some projects that have to go ahead of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1090	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1093	It's not every day that I'm sorry for a debate going to the end, but this time I'm actually doing it in the direction that this debate has now taken. Because when the representative of the Workers' Party Sverre Myrli is as instructive to his own party colleagues as he was able to be here, it's quite interesting to be in opposition. He even said that his party colleagues had reached the bottom of the debate because they criticized political processes. I think the representative Myrli and the others in the room are familiar with the fact that it was on the rise of these processes that the challenges came. There have, of course, been a lot of investigations and discussions over a long time, but the upstream side became so hectic that the government was only able to write about it. two and a half sides around it. And if there's no reason to criticize such a process, with the urgency in which it finally ended up, related to matters that have no relevance to the matter we're dealing with today, if it's not legal, if that's the bottom of the debate -- yes, then the representative Myrli and I define it at least differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1100	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1108	The size shall now vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1118	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right First, there will be a vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the The proposal reads as follows: Norway's veterinary college and the Veterinary Institute are not moved to Ås, but continue their activities in Oslo, in close association with the Danish Food Safety Authority, the National Institute of Public Health and the other professional cooperation institutions. The Storting asks the Government to submit a proposal for the co-organization of NVH/VI with the University of Oslo. The majority asks the Government to include new NVH/VI clinic and pathology buildings in the priority list of construction investments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1149	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: St. Prop. No 30 on the future location and organisation of Norway's Veterinary College is being sent back to the Government.The government asks the Norwegian Veterinary College/Veterinary Institute to be included in the priority list of construction investments with the current location NVH/VI. [[2007-2008]] The Government is asked to wait until a thorough and thorough analysis of all the implications has been carried out and until the proposal can be accompanied by a binding allocation framework.» The Progress Party has indicated that they wish to support this proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1195	We're going to deal with case number. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1262	We then go back to case No. 2 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1278	The evaluation of teacher training by NOKUT was very successful. Immediately, the then state councillor, Djupedal, pushed out and said: ‘The requirements for teacher training must be strengthened. This work will immediately be started by the Ministry.’» [[...]] A big message about the theme was announced, now fixed until the fall of 2008, but we know that with this government, the ‘harvest 2008’ can become a tiring concept. I think teacher training is an excellent example of what I see as one of the biggest challenges in Norwegian school. Storing messages shall address all challenges. Instead of solving the problems through the normal lines of responsibility and through daily focus, the system is likely to sit and wait for the roll-out message to be presented. Of course, the overall issues need to be analysed and monitored through the reporting of aggregates, but in terms of content and quality challenges within the guidelines you have, there is no need to do so. School questions have to be about solving the challenges at the level to be solved and addressing them as they appear. It is about laying the responsibility where it should be, and monitoring whether the responsibility is taken by those who are to take it. Teacher training takes place at universities and colleges, which are mainly State owned. The variety on the owner's side is not large. The institutions have gained more autonomy. It's right and important, but autonomy shouldn't be anarchy either. Requirements and objectives must be set and compliance with the requirements and targets must be followed up by the owner. This is active ownership in practice. The question then arises: how active has the Ministry been to make the boards take responsibility for the quality of the various institutions? Viewed in the light of a NOCUT report that came a few years ago, and a number of newspaper headlines, among others. The evening post claimed that a four-year training was in practice three years old, due to a lack of ‘driving’ training, the activity should have been high. When I read the NOCUT report, it struck me that a lot of the challenges in the report are what I would call purely institutional and operational challenges. The main conclusion of the NOCUT evaluation of teacher training is that the quality of Norwegian general teacher training is far too varied. It is underlined that there is a great need for better governance of institutions. There are too many variations between institutions' management of their governance responsibilities, and the report states that the culture of the exercise of management has significant potential for improvement. It is clear that our central ambitions for the whole, the coherence and the good preparation of the profession in education will not be realized without a much clearer governance effort than is found in most institutions today. So it's about day-to-day operations and whether the department has been conscious of its ownership role. Have there been ongoing demands and follow-up to the work of the institutions as an owner should have done, and has there been a tightening of practice since the report was available? The NOKUT report describes the theoretical knowledge and practice training as two different worlds, and the training is often marked by small sections with weakly developed cooperation and competition between them. The committee believes that education which is so low in organisationally integrated can be difficult to deliver a well-connected training provision. It is very clear in the report that there is a clear need to strengthen the professional management of education at the institutions and that there is a need for a more active use of quality assurance systems to ensure and develop the quality of education. This will also bind education better together. In the report, the national level receives a clear recommendation to contribute to this. The rationale for the management of general teacher training is that it is in a special position as a national task and therefore a somewhat stronger national approach must be taken into account than for most other education. What has the ministry done? This is practical, day-to-day ownership work! Institutions have a relatively high degree of autonomy through the Law on Universities and Universities, and it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure that all activities are conducted as required by law. It is the Governing Board’s vision and strategy for education that must always guide institutions. It is therefore essential to have adequate governance that the organisation be designed in such a way as to facilitate good communication between the various parts of the institution. It is a challenge for institutions to deal with the new control functions provided as a governance instrument and the evaluation committee is quite clear that this follow-up at that time was not satisfactory. Is this followed up? The evaluation committee found alarmingly low throughput rates for general teacher training. The data material shows a completion rate of 45 pst at a normal time. and a total failure of 35 pst. There are great variations between institutions, which should mean that you have a lot to learn from each other. The number of students who completed in the normal time ranged from about 30 pst. and up to 60 pst, and the non-response ranged from 11 pst. to 51 pst. It says in the report that when the sample presented these figures to the institutions, there were some unknown sizes for them, despite the fact that the institutions themselves are responsible for reporting the figures to NOKUT. What has the Ministry done about this? Does the ministry require a type of regular reporting that forces the institutions to enter these figures? The review showed that only a few of the institutions had carried out systematic reporting and analysis of flow and non-response. NIFU STEP was set to do the job. Their study shows that the study progress in general teacher training is weak and that re-election and non-response are extensive. But it is dramatic that the governments responsible for the quality of the institutions did not even initiate such analyses, and it is bad if the department does not require it now. Another main conclusion of the NIFU STEP report is that there is considerable variation between institutions in the proportion of completion. It varies from just 37 pst. for a total of 68 pst. Another interesting finding is that there is a link between character requirements and the proportion that has completed the education. It turns out to be a better flow in institutions with real character requirements. The report to NIFU STEP reveals significant weaknesses in the data due to the lack of/weak registration and thus confirms the indications NOCUT received directly from the institutions. The NOCUT report says: ‘The evaluation panel will highlight as fully central to the educational institutions the provision of insight into key figures such as the use of resources, results and throughput. This is of great importance in assessing own efforts and in identifying the needs for action. This work requires a quality assurance system which includes key figures in a constructive manner and which ensures the level of programmes and institutions.’;» What has the ministry done about this? It is absolutely vital that the ministry develop what I would call active ownership policy in this area, in order to avoid having to go back to detailed central governance. I don't believe that, and the NOCUT committee doesn't want it either. The Ministry must take action and ensure better follow-up and control of institutions. This work should have started on the day of the NOKUT report. I hope I'm wrong, but unfortunately, the goal and result management of the institutions doesn't seem to be a priority task for today's government. Both NOKUT and NIFU STEP conclude that on the basis of the available data, there is no reliable link between input levels, inputs and results. The main reason is that the performance assessment and reporting by institutions do not maintain satisfactory quality. There are significant differences between the figures reported by the institutions to NOKUT and the figures taken by NIFU STEP from the Statistical Central Bureau. Unless the Council of State gives a convincing answer, it is my claim that the government's lack of focus on results and performance results means that the institutions do not have the follow-up that is clearly needed by national authorities. Alerting clustering messages as a solution to the challenges will easily lead to a waiting and seeing attitude in the institutions. They don't do anything until the staging message comes. In this case, the Government has achieved two years of rest in this area as well, with its warning of a wholesale notification. I look forward to the debate, and hope the Council of State can convince me that I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1329	I don't know how much it takes to convince the representative Gundersen, but I'll do my best. The NOCUT evaluation panel has provided a number of assessments on how to enhance the quality of general teacher training. In some areas, the evaluation gave such clear indications of weaknesses as to the urgency of taking concrete action. Most of the challenges NOCUT’s evaluation of general teacher training pointed to were those for which the institutions themselves were responsible. In addition, they pointed to some challenges of national responsibility that will require longer-term strategies and plans. The national challenges, such as: The main direction, structure and length of education, will be presented in the alert message, which we are otherwise fully working on, and which does not prevent us from doing other work in parallel. Locally, individual teacher training institutions themselves need to address many of the challenges highlighted in the evaluation, such as the organisation and management of education, lack of practicality, tighter requirements for students and a number of other challenges. The representative of Gundersen raises an important question and points out that lack of professional training is not only a problem of a single institute or manager of this training, but also a responsibility for the senior management of the institution and for the board of directors. It has been important for the Ministry to show that this is a responsibility for the senior executives of the institutions. Therefore, the first former Council of State, Djupedal, after having handed over this evaluation of general teacher training, was to invite all principals, directors and study directors to a professional conference, which was held on 15 March 2006. Here the main theme was the responsibility of management to provide good professional training and to provide good management of education at all levels of the organisation of the university or higher education. In 2006, the Ministry instructed all teachers to draw up a local evaluation follow-up plan. The plan should include actions related to both the proposals made by the evaluation panel to each institution and the general references to general teacher training. This plan was sent to the Ministry and discussed at the EEAS in the spring of 2007. In this way, the Ministry ensured a dialogue with the management and representatives of the Management Board of all institutions on the follow-up to the evaluation report. The 2008 letter of allocation asked institutions to report on the follow-up to the action plan. This will be one of the themes of the forthcoming EEA Management Meetings in spring 2008. In fact, the first one is being held today. The national government has also addressed some of the challenges that are really the primary responsibility of teacher training. In the 2008 state budget, it has been allocated approximately. Forty million. to various measures aimed at strengthening teacher training and giving new knowledge of it. Because the NOCUT evaluation pointed out that one of the main challenges was to improve the coherence between the theoretical and practical aspects of teacher training, a three-year project for testing regional models for improved cooperation between teacher education and school and kindergarten and another for developing better practice models has been launched. This is in addition to the measures relating to cooperation between teacher training institutions and municipalities on guidance for newly-trained teachers. This shows that the then State Council of Djupedal addressed the evaluation of general teacher training from the very beginning. The Council of State was committed to anchoring responsibility for the follow-up where it belongs: the management of the various institutions. In addition, there are measures that require a greater national response and that will be mentioned in the notification. And with all due respect for Gundersen's opinion that big-time messages are a way of pushing the problems ahead: there's some of this that's being worked all the time, going on following up the individual institutions. We are very concerned that it is goal and result management that is our guiding principle. We have set some goals, and as I said, we are now following the institutions in governance meetings on how we achieve the goals. But at the same time, after I took over the Council of State, we have become convinced that there is a need for our own big message about teacher training and the role of teachers, because it is absolutely necessary to look at this in an overall context. We want to do that by entering into a more fundamental assessment of the basis of teacher training - we have several variants of it - and reaping from the follow-up we have had from the evaluation done by NOKUT, and basing it on this message. It doesn't prevent us, as I said, from being active -- I would say -- right in our ownership of the institutions in an ongoing follow-up to the institutions' achievement of their objectives. We've also used the means we've used to do this to give some people a test opportunity to try out a little bit of alternative variants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1357	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Storing messages are, of course, necessary, and it is obvious that we have challenges that need to be addressed through a big message - I think we fully agree on that - among other things. in the case of the five-yearly training and the type of thing in question. There's no doubt about it. What was my point is that it must not prevent the development of an active ownership policy, and there I hear that the Council of State is trying to say that it has. I hope that's right, and that it develops further. There is no doubt that the boards and management of the local institutions are responsible for the day-to-day follow-up, which are to ensure that this has been done. The NOKUT report shows with all manner of clarity that it may not have been sufficiently addressed in the past. There are a number of relationships that you have to deal with. Then I note that the Council of State also says that you are concerned with target and result management. I have gone in and looked at these target and result controls. Firstly, there are several documents, and then there are an incredible number of targets. There are so many goals that it must almost be impossible for the institutions to deal with them - at least to all of them. Here it's going to be a balance of what's going to be most important, and it's pretty hard. Regarding actions following the NOCUT report: I am quite close to the University of Hedmark, which has one of the major teacher training courses. There, an 18-point action plan was developed, but I have the impression that the interest in it by the department may not have been very high. Now I hear the council say something else, but that's my clear impression. Using that type of report actively and creating a dialogue other than having conferences and the type of large meetings is quite important for institutions to learn from each other. As the NOCUT report says, there is a significant potential for institutions to actually learn things from each other. That's what I build into an active ownership policy, that you actually also make sure that the institutions share experiences, and that there is ‘best practice’ that goes into effect. As I also said in the main article, autonomy is important - that is where the responsibility lies - but it must not mean anarchy. It may quickly be within the scope of training as large as teacher training, unless the department ensures that it remains in line. I look forward to the further debate and what it might show on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1370	I'm not completely familiar with the picture Gundersen is drawing. After nearly six months in the State Council chair, I have attended quite a number of meetings, including joint meetings with all the boards of our universities and colleges, where it has just been ‘best practice’ – learning from each other – that has been an important topic, and where the challenges facing governments have been addressed in their role of being responsible in relation to the institutions. I said that we have started some measures. I can mention some of those who have been conducted after NOKUT's evaluation of general education, which is specifically targeted at this. Two trials of teacher training have been agreed that started the last autumn. One is at the Telemark College, which has a general teacher education with more emphasis on practice, and where students attend a school for a whole year at the same time as they complete studies in the field. We also have the University of Westfold, which is trying out a high school teacher education. We also have actions in relation to the Research Council and from there with the assistance of the practical R & D programme for kindergartens, initial training and teacher training. A research programme with a total allocation of 154 million has been established. kr. The aim of this programme is to contribute to knowledge development that strengthens kindergarten, initial and teacher training. It will promote R & D in teacher training, improve the link between vocational training and vocational training and contribute to the uptake of research-based knowledge. We have an interaction with the Education Directorate where good models are developed to strengthen cooperation between the university and higher education sectors and schools and kindergartens. It's a three-year project where 6 million were allocated. kr in 2007 and 2008. There is also a monitoring of practical training in teacher training. It is a report that Rambøll has produced, which was delivered in the autumn of 2007, and which helps us in the overall assessment. Similarly, the development of good cooperation models for practical training conducted by NTNU in Trondheim and the University of Agder, which received 3 million. SEK in 2008 for a three-year project. These are just examples of the measures we are now continuously trying to put in place so that we will constantly receive feedback and evaluations from these too - in order to be as careful as possible to take the necessary corrections and, where appropriate, the adjustments that need to be made in relation to an overall assessment of teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1381	Teacher training is one of the most important education we have. The teacher must train the future population. The teacher provides the basis for the knowledge and competence of the individual student. The teacher is essential for the student to learn more and thrive at school. The foundation laid down by children and young people in their first years of life, shapes them and determines what kind of person they become, what kind of knowledge they acquire and how. We need well-educated and inspiring teachers who go into a profession that is constantly changing and updating. Since the evaluation of teacher training by NOKUT in 2006, the structure and content of education have been a ‘hot’ topic. Teachers who have sometimes been negatively produced by professionals in the social debate. It is important to recognise that time is ripe to take some action in the field of teacher training. But major structural changes cannot be solved overnight. It is important to spend time well and listen to professionals. NOCUT fixed a number of educational challenges. Some challenges were up to institutions themselves to solve, and some were national challenges. Among the challenges faced by the institutions were: focussed on the lack of clear management at all levels, the potential for improvement in cooperation between school owners and teacher training institutions, on practice and on continuing training, and that more clear demands should be placed on students’ efforts. It's eye-catching when the entire 40 pst. by general school teachers, they fall within four years. There is no explanation as to why - whether it is the best or the weakest, whether they change places of study or study. Studies show a weak correlation between character requirements and throughput. Many people point to a gap in the link between practice and theory in teacher training. On a scale from 1 to 5, teachers averaged 2 to receive a good follow-up of teachers at the university during practice. The policy field should be better exploited and guidance used during the practical period, both in practice and on the part of institutions, is too poor. Many newly educated teachers say that the biggest challenge is to get to school and work with everything it involves. A closer follow-up of the individual will be a solution to that. Teacher training faces a number of major challenges. The evaluation of NOKUT was alarming, and we need to take clear action for, among other things. to improve flow, quality, characteristics, management and intake requirements. The evaluation panel concluded that there are in particular two areas that presuppose the success of the professional effort. It's complete and coherent, and it's research orientation. Within its entirety and context, two areas should, according to the panel, be added. It is community orientation and multicultural teacher training. Studies show that many children with a minority background feel little and understood by the teacher. Multicultural competences need to be given much greater emphasis in teacher training. In addition, targeted recruitment of more teachers with a minority background is needed. Research and development should be linked to primary school work and linked between school and teacher training institutions. Students should be given the opportunity to participate in R & D while studying and when they have their period of practice in school. National measures in addition to the research and higher education minister’s presentation today, such as structure and main direction, come in the notified learning message on teacher training, which comes at the turn of the year. Teacher training will receive thorough treatment in the year ahead, both here in the Chamber and from the Government. I look forward to several more debates on this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1402	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important issue. I would also like to thank the representative Ljunggren for illustrating the importance of the teacher for each student. That's why it's important to have these debates, and that's why it's important to have a strong political pressure on this kind of discussion and debate. The focus on quality in teacher training is not a new theme. We have discussed the quality of teacher training for many years, but only after the NOCUT evaluation came and in many ways struck the legs during a lot of what we thought about Norwegian teacher training, has the debate taken real action. It turns out that there is a large difference in quality between institutions. It turns out that the quality of the teachers' skills when they go out is different. Then one can think in two ways. One is to think in the short term, so see how we can solve the acute challenges that are actually here. The second is to think more long-term, how to ensure in the long term that the teachers of the future are among the best in the world. I feel that the Council of State is very much indifferent to the responsibility for this. It's right that we in the committee are now working on a proposal for five-year teacher training - we'll see how it ends. We have had seminars in the committee and are dealing with this very carefully. There is one measure that can work in the very long term. We're not near any conclusions yet, I think, but this is important for the long term quality. In the short term, it is important to be able to take some national action, for which the Council of State is responsible. There is no one, as I have at least understood, who is calling for a reduction in the autonomous situation of the institutions. It is important that they should be responsible, that they should have the opportunity to follow up, but this cannot lead to central politicians taking a step back and saying that we have to wait and see. Many institutions have already implemented some important measures. The challenge is to implement actions that also work properly. That is where the national coordination task should be strengthened, and then we are dependent on having a political pressure, including from the Council of State. The Progress Party believes that we should have a five - year teacher training. We're going to see how many larger numbers end up after we've had the rounds we're going to go through. We point out that the situation today is such that the Municipality of Oslo is now conducting a 50-hour course for newly-trained teachers. It is an arrangement that they have received very good feedback on, which is very successful. But it's a challenge that there's a need to have a 50-hour refresher course for newly-trained teachers. This means that we have a significant potential for improvement, and that means that the provision of teacher training in general needs to be different. Like Mr Ljunggren, we also look forward to many long and thorough debates on how we can achieve this, in interaction with the institutions, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-07.ana.ud613e1419	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come, and the meeting will be cancelled.
