ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-02.ana.ud1369e635	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! The Trontals carry out a bid that Stortinget will have enough to do this year as well. A lot of big and important things are going to be treated. It reflects a fundamental parliamentary accountability towards the Storting and thus towards the voters that the Government thus and in this Chamber presents its work programme for the coming year. Over the years, this accountability has built confidence in our political system, marking the Greatness as the centre of our people's rule. From Stortinget, the long lines stretch back in our history as an independent, willful and democratic people. And from Stortinget history will extend further into the modern Norwegian welfare community. All too rarely, the accountability and foresight shown by our elected representatives are conveyed in the media. The size has managed an incredible national wealth increase that has occurred over a very short period of time, with great intelligence. History has shown that rapidly increasing wealth has easily become the beginning of destruction for both nations and individuals. We have not avoided anyone in our country losing contact with the reality of meeting wealth. But the Storting has dealt with a remarkable soberness, while the funds have mainly been used to build the community and secure the future. We must believe that this has set a standard for society as a whole and is an important reason why the new generation has not changed the basic values of the great majority of the people. Because it has to be clear that we as people still want to be ourselves, but not ourselves enough. I thought it was in its place to acknowledge and give honor to the responsibility of the parties at Stortinget together for our community. It appears to be a national assembly in the right sense of the word — an institution that brings together the nation on the main objectives and tasks. This is the basis for confidence in our political system. It's going to be fine right now. The languages of the throne are presented at a time when the world is marked by a fundamental uncertainty. In particular, the financial crisis shows this. Norway is better equipped to meet the crisis because of the responsibilities shown and because different parties have also worked to a large extent in common here, to develop stringent regulations and control mechanisms. The financial crisis shows that laws, regulations and a strong bureaucracy to comply with them are expressions of civilization. The absence of this means the law of the jungle. A key task must therefore be to contribute to the building of laws, rules and institutions that can make and build trust at international level. By law, the land has to be built, it's called. We can add: By law, the world is to be built. And it is urgent that initiatives be taken in that direction, unfortunately, many times in the history of the world, what the philosopher and politician John Locke said: "Where the law ends, the tyranny begins." The task we as elected representatives are facing is not easy, because it demands to think about it. But media reality requires something else. It exerts a constant pressure through an innumerable number of channels and applications for quick answers. A variety of researchers and experts comment on ongoing issues of great and complex complexity, often before anyone has had the opportunity to study the documents. The job of the elected representatives must be different. We have to take time, and the positions have to come after careful reading of documents and gaining knowledge, and the processes here in Stortinget with hearings and committee settings must guarantee that everyone is heard. "And my duties are laboriously smooth, yet I give them what I possess," said Arnulf Upperland. It fits our political everyday life. It's the solidity that gives the Storting authority. It's the one that gives us control, and that's so important to our country in an uncertain world. In this context, the way we choose to conduct the political debate is not irrelevant. It is my hope that political settlements take place where the parliamentary laws apply, namely inside this Chamber, not just outside, where the laws of the media apply. 'All power in this hall' also means that we can weigh each other's positions based on what is said here. It creates confusion and distrust if the meaning of our words is changed because of which forum you are in, or which channel you participate in. I also thought it would be appropriate to lift up and give status to the parliamentary procedure which, for an uncertain period of time, creates predictable procedure and debate and thus governance. It's important to people in our country. The emergence of the welfare society can be understood and expressed in many ways. Maybe the following is the easiest: we'll honor our father and our mother and do it for our children as they did for us. This story – which is about generations taking care of each other, that society is built from generation to generation – must continue. Let's remember, in this story, it also happens that the ancestors who did something for us today were poorer than what we are, but they still had profit to share. Today the profits are great, but there is a legitimate question of whether we have sufficient will and ability to share, and whether we have enough historical insight to see that when those sitting at the bottom of the table were raised, and those who were pushed out, came along, the community became stronger. It is a danger that so many today fall outside. Giving those who are pushed out, the opportunity to participate, is now as before one of the most important resources in society. Now, for the fourth and last time in this growing-up period, we gather for efforts as foremen and foremen for our country, I think of Winston Churchill's words that all the great things are simple. And many things can be expressed in simple words: Freedom, justice, honour, duty, grace, hope and – I want to add – trust. Trust has brought us here, and trust will bring us on. In the assurance that everyone remembers Henrik Wergeland’s words “We must do what we can,” we gather in the old and important desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-02.ana.ud1369e690	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
