ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e24	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e27	On behalf of the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to propose amendments to the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular security - the People's Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e32	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e38	The president will suggest that a president of Odelstinget's meetings be elected in the week that comes - and sees it as agreed. The President will propose Ågot Valle. - Other proposals are not in advance, and Ågot Valle is in agreement with the election of the President-in-Office of the sitting for the next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e53	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity for a change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e60	I should like to commend the rapporteurs from the Left for Document No. 8:31. It is absolutely necessary to amend the legislation in such a way that there is no doubt that physical punishment of children is prohibited in Norway. There is a need for clarification, as the rapporteurs stress in this proposal. All forms of physical punishment as part of child rearing are reprehensible and totally unacceptable. Physical punishment is humiliating and offensive, and, like adults, children have the right to be treated with respect, so that they are not subjected to violence and abuse. As a society, we have a common responsibility to ensure that children are not subjected to violence, abuse and infringement. There should therefore be no doubt that there is absolute zero tolerance for all violations against children. We know that abuse and violence are deeply rooted in children. It is deeply tragic for those involved, and it costs society enormous resources to repair. The majority of the Committee emphasises that what is prohibited against an adult person shall also be prohibited against children. The right to be punished by parents was lifted in 1972. And to make it quite clear that violence is not allowed to be used in service, the provision that children should not be subjected to violence came into the Children's Act in 1987. It follows from the third paragraph of Section 30 of the Children’s Act on the content of parental responsibility that children must not be subjected to violence or otherwise be treated in such a way that physical or mental health is exposed to harm or danger. However, no penalties are directly linked to the rules of the Children’s Act. The opinion of the Supreme Court at the end of 2005 regarding the non-compliance with Section 228 of the Criminal Act if parents, for educational purposes, grant their children a lighter clap, has aroused a large public debate. The opinion has been criticised for giving a vague legal status, which may in practice lead to some contractors resorting to harsher remedies than legal remedies, because they have not been given a clear signal to stick to. It allows children not to enjoy the same protection for their physical integrity as adults. The purpose of the private bill we are now discussing is to clarify the legal status, so that it is explicitly stated that parents cannot use any form of physical punishment against children in child rearing. To achieve this, there is a need to amend the child law and the penal code. Document No 8:31 for 2007-2008 only proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act. The majority of the Committee therefore supports the following proposals: «The Government asks the Government to investigate and promote the Stortinget proposal for amendments to the Children's Act § 30 in line with the intention of Document No. 8:31 The government is asked to assess at the same time whether there is a need to clarify and possibly strengthen the protection of children from physical punishment in the penal code. [[(2007-2008) (...)]] The government is requested to present the legislative proposal during the autumn of 2008/ Spring 2009. ‘... The majority of the Committee agrees, but it is clear that the Progress Party does not support this proposal. As I said, I should like to commend the rapporteurs. This was an absolutely necessary step to take, and we thank you for the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e82	I think it is timely to congratulate the proposers for this proposal. Norway is seen in many ways as a leading country in terms of children’s rights, not least because we have strict legislation on the physical protection of children. Already in 1972 access to physical punishment for children was removed for educational purposes. That amendment of the law has been necessary to change attitudes in our society regarding the punishment of young people. There has been a major change in its use over the years. There has been a process, and it is not that such attitudes change overnight. The last time the Stortingen dealt with changes in the child law compared with the physical punishment of children was in 1987. In the preparatory work at the time, an opinion was given on what the provision was intended to cover. It was then pointed out that the determination was not intended to ‘Light flaps over the hand or against the torso as a spontaneous reaction’. [[...]] When, in a comment, the Court of Justice of the European Communities in its 2005 page 1569 states that the law does not cover ‘light flaps’, I interpret it in such a way that the Supreme Court makes an attempt to draw the legislator’s attention to the current legal situation. That is why it is particularly timely that the proposers have just promoted this important and necessary amendment. In 2008, we should have a modern law that clearly distances us from the physical punishment of children. Children who are being beaten are turning seams. We adults are role models. If we hit the kids, the kids think it's a good reaction they can also use both for other children and for adult life. It is also a paradox that children have less legal protection than adults under the law. It is not allowed for adults to beat adults under the penal code, nor should it be allowed to slap children. In addition to the fact that the majority of the Committee supports the proposals made by the proposers to amend the Children's Act, we are going further into action. We also want us to look at the penal code, so that we also get up-to-date the law in line with that proposal, so that we ensure that we have a modern law that protects and ensures our kids in an acceptable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e97	The theme today is violence against children. Violence against children is regulated today by the Children's Act and the Criminal Code, but there is no penalty for violation of the Children's Act § 30. Infringements may be punishable by criminal law. We are dealing with a proposal for a representative where the left-wing rapporteurs feel that it is necessary to clarify the child law. The proposers claim that even slight physical punishment is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and that Norwegian law must explicitly prohibit ‘cautious’ or ‘lighter’ flaps for educational purposes. However, the proposers and the majority in the vote will allow a certain use of physical power. Holding or obstruction, in particular of young children, in order to avoid their currently causing harm to themselves, to others or to things, shall certainly be permitted. The Procedural Party will refer to the Supreme Court Opinion of the Court of Justice in its 2005 page 1570 as regards the fact that it will not be affected by Section 228 of the Criminal Act if parents, for educational purposes, assign their children more easily to flapping. We think that is a wise decision. I have noticed that it is claimed that this statement to the Supreme Court has aroused public debate, and that the opinion has been criticised for giving a vague legal state that may in practice lead some of the commissioners to resort to harsher remedies than lawful, because they do not have a clear norm to deal with. There is no reference to specific issues when making this claim, either in the setting or from the previous speakers. I have to say I am an avid newspaper reader and TV-titter, but I have not observed the alleged public debate and the general criticism of the Supreme Court at this point if one ignores the VG and similar tabloid media that at uneven intervals makes large and screaming headlines about one or more social debaters who believe anything about the matter. I have seen to little or no extent reports of cases in the judiciary that are about easier flapping or about earbuds for educational purposes. The things that occur most often are matters of serious abuse, violence or incest. In these cases, of course, the Progress Party believes that more punishment is needed than today. It is striking that when the Progress Party has put forward many proposals for tougher penalties in this area, the majority in the Grand Duchy has voted against. I fear that by putting serious abuse and gross violence against children in the same booth as parents giving a lighter slap, we get a legal state that neither reflects general legal opinion nor common sense. I also find it difficult to see how this is going to be done in practice. On the one hand, a certain use of physical power will be permitted by the proposers and the majority - holding, blocking - especially to young children, in order to avoid harming themselves, on others or on things, while on the other hand, it is necessary to ban more easily flapping. For example, you might well think of situations where that, for example, is the case. are about children or young people early in their teens with behavioural disorders, perhaps ADHD, which rages out, and where parents must intervene before the babysitter or house and home are injured. Where to draw the distinction in such situations? It's hard for me to see. It's obviously politically correct, as it's called, to lay down the pad face of the Left's proposal, as the other parties have done. But that's neither reasonable nor smart for that reason. In conclusion, the Progress Party will oppose this amendment. We believe that the opinion of the Supreme Court is clear and satisfactory, and that it draws a clear distinction between the perpetrators of violence who should be punished and the sensible instructors who will do the best for their family. That you can imagine individuals who don't understand the difference between easier flapping and harder reprimands is not enough to change the law. We believe that today's situation cannot be said to conflict with the Children's Convention or good rights for children. With this, I would like to refer to the comments of the Progress Party and ask to vote against the proposal to attach the matter to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e129	The theme addressed by the proposers is an important one. Violence against children is harmful, and children need protection from abuse. The rule of law has specific obligations to protect the weak party, namely the children. The signal effect of the topic of violence against children being debated is great, and it is great that such discussions are raised. In addition to raising the issue and initiating the discussion, it is up to us as the legislative authority to ensure that the legal certainty of children in relation to physical and mental punishment is safeguarded by the law we establish. The relationship between the physical punishment of children is regulated by both the criminal law and the Children’s Act. In addition, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been ratified, and we have obligations to establish our law as regards the right of children to physical integrity, the right to protection and protection against violence under the provisions of the Convention. That we have a court order that might seem to doubt where the limit goes for parents' right to physical punishment is complicated. It is the criminal law and the criminal law sanctions that guide how we should deal with physical punishment. It is therefore important that the Government in its work on the proposal for a specific part of the criminal law will follow up the need for a stronger clarification of the protection of children from physical punishment. It is signaled that this will happen, and the Right expects the Government to provide clear clarifications of the problem that is being raised. In this context, the Right will support changes in criminal law, which make it clear that violence against children is to be prohibited and met with penalties. The work on the penal code could trigger a need for changes in the child law, and we therefore support the Government's position on this matter to await work on changes in the criminal law related to criminal provisions against violence, and look at assessments made as regards the need to clarify and, where appropriate, strengthen the protection of children from physical punishment, including in the Children's Act. The Council of State recommends that the proposal for amendments to the third paragraph of Section 30 of the Children Act be included in the normal process of legislative development. We will support this. Legal work is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, and it is therefore difficult to enter into a proposal that we have been presented here on a new legal text, without having been subject to a thorough assessment which should be made by the Legal Service. We therefore support the majority's proposal that the Government should come back to Stortinget with a prepared case. In order to deal with the challenges we face with regard to attitudes in different parts of society related to the physical punishment of children, it is also important for clear professionals and other speakers to make visible in public space the norms that should prevail, namely that children should not be subjected to abuse, that physical punishment is an offence, and that children need protection in relation to parents who engage in violence as part of the child's education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e146	I also want to start by giving praise to the proposers. All violence against children is unacceptable, whether for educational purposes or not. Violence damages children both in the short and long term. It is therefore alarming that the Progress Party does not share its view of the rest of the Committee on the need for clarification of the legal situation in relation to the physical punishment of children. In the view of the Christian People's Party, we cannot live with a situation where children have weaker protection of their physical integrity than adults. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to amend both the child law and the criminal law to ensure that children are not subjected to physical punishment. Children living with family violence are vulnerable and partially invisible children and young people who need protection, help and follow-up. Fear, unrest and uncertainty characterize their everyday lives. Much of the violence is hidden, kept secret, and tabooged. Child protection has an important role to play in matters where children need protection and help to get out of a life situation marked by violence. It is also important to counteract the reproduction of violence. NOVA researcher Anne Solberg has carried out a project on violence in homes where there is a child. The project sheds light on how to help children with violence from home to break their silence. Breaking what is often a family secret, to some outsiders can be an important first step to get help. The interviews show that deafness may be the result of a risk assessment. It seems that for children who are turned off themselves, it may be particularly risky to tell someone outside the family. When the chances of the situation getting worse -- that they're being knocked even more -- are considered to be greater than the possibilities of improvement -- that they're being knocked down less -- it's not going to say something safest. The size of the population today, hopefully, will be normative, so that the threshold for all types of punishment for children is higher. In order to protect children, it is essential to have good procedures for reporting concerns from special kindergartens, schools, health centres and crisis centres and sufficient resources in child protection to follow them up. It is also essential that we, as a society, take seriously the fact that there is a clear link between violence and alcohol use. The Bondevik II government launched a comprehensive strategy against sexual and physical abuse against children in the spring of 2005. The plan had four main objectives: to prevent abuse, to detect abuse, to provide adequate assistance and treatment for the victims and to increase the competence of the auxiliaries in the event of such abuses. Prevention has been given considerable space both in this plan and in the violence action plan in close relations. A concrete result of the 2004-2007 Action Plan on Violence is the project Children living with violence in the family. The project is being implemented as a collaboration between Alternatives to Violence and Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen. The project has provided evidence of how violence harms children, imparts knowledge to staff working with children, so that these violent children are seen and offered clinical services. I am pleased that the current government is following up this important work in a new action plan against violence in close relations. The plan covers five departments and will give rise, not least to knowledge. However, what is lacking in this plan is extended staffing frameworks and greater inter-disciplinary focus on near-users. The action www.redesmå.no has recently been launched. I think the government is wise to review the demands of the action group carefully. The measures outlined there will give the Government's action plan violence in close relations the strength and strength needed to create a turning point - turning point, as the Government has called its new action plan. If the framework is not increased, increased knowledge could lead to paralysis rather than increased activity. This is at least as important as strengthening the protection of children from physical punishment in the child law and in the criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e169	I am pleased that a joint committee with the exception of the Progress Party now makes it explicit that parents cannot use any form of physical punishment against children in child rearing. The public debate has shown that despite the prohibition of physically punishing children in Norway, legal interpretations can contribute to misunderstandings. Then it is important that the Storting makes a clarification. The law must be so clear that there is no room for doubt. That is why I am attending an assessment of the penal code in this area. I think the most important thing about this debate and the law-enforcement is the signals Stortinget is now giving. The Government’s Action Plan on Violence in Close Relations focuses on raising awareness and raising awareness. I believe that with this change in the Children's Act, we are contributing to this work. It is vital that everyone in our society understands that the physical integrity of a child is as inviolable as that of an adult, and that violence against children is an attack on a fellow human being who cannot defend himself. Of course, sound reasoning should continue to apply in view of parents’ ability to make their own choices in child rearing. Not all physical intervention against children is an assault or an infringement. As the Children's Ombudsman said in his hearing, a broken three-year-old must still be able to be carried out of the store. Of course, parents must be able to prevent children from being exposed to danger. It's physical punishment as part of the mission we're talking about here that we want to live. Child rearing confronts parents in many situations where a proper spinal reflex is crucial to the pattern of action. A society with zero tolerance for physical punishment against children I think will act as a parental counsel against violence. It is also important that we signal that the educational effect of violence is negative and leads to insecure children who face difficulties more often than safe children. The relationship of trust between supervisors and children is essential for good growth and for the development of children. This is perceived as a social norm in Norway. Children living outside this norm will often perceive themselves and their family as different. There is an additional burden in addition to the physical punishment itself. In the case of children who feel ashamed or alone, we clearly say that for society, all children are equally inviolable and all physical punishments are equally not allowed. The smallest children cannot assess their own situation and far from describe it. It is essential that we raise the situation of children to the level of public communication and, through it, make one partially silent and, in all contexts, weak group challenges visible. Children who are subjected to violence are all alone until they are seen by an adult who is willing to help them. We have to contribute to the existence of such conscious adults and to the fact that the least possible adults are invading children. I think the sum of the mind-creating work can help those who are subjected to violence to dry talking to someone about it, and the environment to recognize signs of abuse. I'm glad we're now changing the Children's Act. I also attend a review of the penal code in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e188	Firstly, I would like to thank you very much for the support that we receive here in the Chamber today for this proposal. I was born in 1969. I'm an old lady. But I have been raised in the sacred belief that it is not allowed to beat children in Norway. I learned from my parents that beating children was not allowed, in line with the fact that it was not allowed to beat adults. Changing such a stance on the use of violence in the mission takes time, it certainly takes generations, and it has been going on in Norway for probably over 100 to 150 years. It's about adults learning other ways to exercise authority than by violence. Therefore, the statements of the Progress Party that this violates the general sense of law and common sense are totally incomprehensible. All the knowledge we have, absolutely all the international knowledge we have, says it's wrong to beat children. We have spent 150 years in this country reversing parents' attitudes; they have to exercise authority over their children differently from physical punishment. That's common sense. It's not just common sense, it's also good science not to beat children. I also believe that the general legal opinion in this country is that you should not beat children. And I'm a little bit startled by what the social media representative Knudsen has if the general legal opinion there is that it's okay to beat kids -- just hit them a little bit. It is possible that it is difficult for the representative Knudsen to see the difference between beating children a little and keeping children a little. But it's not hard for adults. I don't think the Progress Party had come to vote for a bill that meant that hitting adults a little bit is okay, because it's so hard to see the difference between hitting them a little bit and keeping them a little bit. It is actually quite important that you have a law where there is no doubt that there is a difference between physical punishment and preventing damage. As for the broken three-year-old of Trond Lode who is carried out of the store, I think that if mother had given a earpiece, she would probably have come to get feedback from everyone around that you don't. But the broken three-year-old carried out of the store would probably have got compassionate glances and smiles from parents around who realize that going past the candy barn can be a challenge when you want to decide sail. I think that all the social norms, all the common sense, all the knowledge and all the general sense of justice in this country -- over a hundred years parents have learned to exercise authority in another way -- suggest that it is not allowed to beat children. That we have a political party standing in this hall and saying that it should be allowed to beat children a little bit, I think I'm absolutely incredible. I am very pleased with the support. I really thought the law was like that before we started working on this. But now I am looking forward to the government presenting a new bill to both the Children's Act and the Penal Code, so that we have a law that is related to the general sense of law and common sense -- the common sense that says that authority towards children exercises adulthood by being an adult.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e205	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e208	I noticed that the representative Skei Grande thought she was an old lady, born in 1969. I'm a young grandpa, born in 1964. I also believe that this is a basis for saying something about this, while I very well remember my own growth. I have, in this debate, among other things. tried to get the majority, i.e. all the other parties outside the Advance Party, to come up with concrete things to show this issue. Through the debate and through the work of the Committee, they have not come up with a single case. I have asked for references to where this general disgust and debate has been mentioned - but not a single example, either in committee or in today's meeting here in Odelstinget. I believe that this debate may be among three or four legally interested in Blinders or in a Left team on Grünerløkka. I have at least not seen it, and I think that this matter is somewhat more hysterical and very little nuanced by some of the speakers in today's meeting. I would like to congratulate the representative, Sanner and the representative, Lode, who had relatively nuanced posts and talked about the signal effect here being important, and I agree with that. We should send a signal that violence against children we don't want any of it in Norwegian society. But then the question is what kind of signal effect we send by putting serious abuse and gross violence against children in the same booth as a courtship. I think we're giving a completely wrong signal when we put these in the same booth. I also have the feeling that there is a gap in the argument for the majority when, in this Chamber, a number of proposals have been voted down by the Progress Party on stricter penalties for serious abuse, violence and incest against children, but at the same time criticises the Progress Party for wanting to give parents some freedom in this area. Very familiar, no children have taken the damage of a firm hand in growing up. Of course, we don't want anyone to go through physical punishment, but that sometimes you have to keep a child and pass it on, and that sometimes it can be borderline cases, it has to be quite obvious and basis for common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e220	It is clear that the Progress Party needs newspaper clippings in front of it to discover that debates have taken place. As the representative Gjul said, we were challenged by the Supreme Court to clarify the legislation. What I can't do, sail if I really want to, is read from the comments of the Progress Party or from the statements of the Progress Party why they are opposed to this proposal. They think there's a lot of things going on that's worse. 20 pst. has, according to the NATO study, experienced that Mother has beaten them. Most of them have experienced that she has done it only once. Nevertheless, it sits in the spinal cord all its life. We have reports from the NATO report on people who have experienced mother beating only once, but that fear came up every time mother became angry. And Mother was very angry that time. I think the battle could have ended up in the category of spontaneous action, which is mentioned in the Supreme Court case. I don't understand why you shouldn't say that this is absolutely not allowed. It sets standards, but I think it is also crucial in relation to the more serious issues. What we're talking about here is that you're breaking borders at all, breaking the emotional barrier, beating your kid. That's what it's about that we want to fight down. The path from the earring to the really rough is quite short. When it is claimed that children have not been harmed by the small flaps, I believe that the NATO report actually proves the opposite. Also, the little flaps, the earflakes, the fact that you notice that mom is out of control and doesn't want to control her mind toward the kid, leads to a break of trust between adults and children. We have a lot of knowledge of this. I believe that the Progress Party could cost itself to give its former party leader a ‘slap’ on the fingers of this case, and dare to go for this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e237	This debate clearly shows that this legislative proposal is absolutely necessary. That the Progress Party claims that we cannot prove that there is a debate about violence in the relationship between children and adults in Norway, except to refer to newspaper posts here in this Chamber, shows how little the Progress Party is concerned about this debate. Children who get beaten are hurting it, we know that. Physical punishment is a declaration of failure. That adult people have to resort to physical punishment for educational purposes, I believe is a failure statement. I cannot clap to the representative of the Progress Party when I disagree with him or think he should be raised. You can't do that to children either. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that we get clarification in the law. I think the representative from the Progress Party shows very clearly how important it is, because the vote says that the Supreme Court says that you cannot be punished for slapping children for educational purposes. In fact, when the representative from the Progress Party is talking about earbuds, I believe that there has been a lot, much longer. For me, a flap is something quite different than a earring. And how far, then, is it from arrogance to more serious violence? I believe that this debate has shown that it is indeed important that we get clarification in the law, both in the child law and in the criminal law, which clearly states that physically punishing children is not allowed in Norway, in the same way that it is not allowed in relation to adults. It is absolutely necessary that children in this country have the same legal certainty as adults. I know that the representative from the Progress Party has asked for the floor after me. I would then like the representative to clarify: Is it clap and earful the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e250	Ulf Erik Knudsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e253	I notice that an investigation says that 20 pst. Norwegian women and men have a earring in the course of growing up, and that it has usually been one earring or one flapping. It might show that it's worked. But when I ask you about the specific issues, where this has been a problem in the judiciary, it's not one thing that can be pointed out in concrete terms. There is also no reference to a single public debate on this. That's why I think you're probably in the process of solving a problem that doesn't exist. And when six-seven speakers are unable to give a single example to concrete this matter, you might want to be more careful about what you do and decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e260	As legislator, it is our duty and our task to set limits or to make a distinction between what is right and what is wrong, what is law and what is not. In today's debate, there is a majority opinion that giving a child a earring is not allowed. It's surprising that the Progress Party doesn't realize that they're on the other side of this line. They think it's allowed to give a child a earpiece. Fortunately, there has been a general perception among parents and in school that you do not give children earaches. It is therefore surprising that the Progress Party is opposed to falling into the law. Of course, it must be stated in the law that this is not allowed. That is what this debate is about - that the protection of children must be ensured. An eartie is wrong and should be illegal. The Progress Party should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e269	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e277	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e293	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the Option I will send the Stortinget. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e303	The Progress Party has warned that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28-lower.ana.ud833e323	There is no record available.
