ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e29	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e43	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e52	Today, we are adopting a new law, which brings together the legislation on medical and medical research. The entire Committee agrees on a note stating that the Health Research Act will: ‘contribute to ensuring that research is of high quality and facilitates the work of researchers by bringing together legislation on medical and medical research in order to give researchers one law to take on board’. An important purpose of the law is to simplify the process of prior approval of research projects, so that the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Sciences, REK, becomes essentially the only body for approval before start-up - the principle of one mailbox, as it has been called. The Act sets out overall requirements for the organisation and conduct of medical and health research and, through its work, the Committee has clarified that the interests of science and society should be given priority to the well-being and integrity of participants. Section 5 of the bill. Furthermore, the proposed legislation contains rules on transparency and transparency of research, stating that research participants and the public should be given access to health research, and that a public register of research projects with sources of funding, with both positive and negative findings, should be established. Good health research is an important tool to ensure the best possible health care for the population. Systematised knowledge acquisition on health, disease, different treatment forms and techniques, medicinal products, etc. is important to learn from both what is done right and what is done wrong. For example, the Cancer Register has provided society with knowledge that is used and needs to be used to improve cancer treatment in Norway. In order to promote good and ethical research, we need to find the right point of intersection to ensure that human privacy and integrity are safeguarded, while at the same time enabling important research that can provide better health services and save lives. This is demanding, especially in the case of weak groups. Society must be extra careful in its approach to researching children, sick and demented -- people without consent. At the same time, maybe these are the ones that need the most research that can give them a better life. I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that this balance sheet creates political commitment. The Committee has spent a lot of time discussing the legal consent provisions. There are some minority proposals, one from the government parties and some from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, which I suppose they will explain to themselves. In spite of these proposals, however, the Committee unanimously supports most of the vote. The committee has taken a lot of time, but I would like to express my special thanks to the chairman of the committee for managing the work in a constructive and tidy manner. The law states that, as a general rule, health research should be consent-based. At the same time, an opening is proposed in order to give so-called broad consent, so that human beings can – if they wish – consent to the use of health information or biological material for example. cancer research in general, rather than having to consent to each research project. In order to ensure that the necessary research can take place, some derogations from the general rule of consent are also proposed, such as: in acute situations, where ex-post consent is required, and by allowing REK to approve, under strict conditions, the new or modified use of previously collected human biological material or health information without obtaining new consent. For research into children under 16 years of age, parental consent shall be required. The Government Parties propose here only a limited derogation, so that regulations can open up the possibility for children aged 12 to 16 to consent to research into health information in special cases. I believe that the interests of the individual's privacy should be very well protected by the Health Research Act that we are now to adopt. Several provisions will help to ensure the well-being, privacy and integrity of research participants. These include the right to withdraw consent, the requirement of soundness of research, prior approval of the REK and transparency. The Committee has also made a number of other important clarifications that are set out in the Committee's position, but I am not given the time to go through enough now. I would like briefly to mention that Section 10 will now allow an appeal to be made against decisions concerning the prior approval of the REK. Section 38 ensures that it is possible to re-check research projects after they have been completed. I would also like to mention that the Committee has discussed the relationship between the Data Protection Authority and the REK, and between the Data Protection Authority and the Health Authority. Furthermore, I refer to the Committee's comments and promote the minority proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre's party. I see that speaking time is coming to the end, but I will comment briefly on a misunderstanding in the setting. There is a comment from the opposition parties that it is proposed that: ‘in the proposal for a new kindergarten law that children should be able to be identified and registered without parents being informed of it or given the opportunity to make reservations against it’. As long as this is aimed at the proposal for so-called individual data, I would like to make it clear that this is a proposal that was included in the draft consultation, but is not included in the Government's Bill for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e88	The representative, Dag Ole Tegen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e91	I would like to begin by commenting on the last thing the rapporteur had in mind, and I hope that, if necessary, it can be corrected or removed from the setting, so that it will be correct according to the proposal for a new kindergarten law that the Government has promoted. In fact, I will praise the parties to the government, and I will commend the work done in the Committee on this matter. The reason for this is that one has simply experienced an attendance where one has actually been willing to listen to the opposition's remarks. There has been a willingness to engage in dialogue to see how the law can be optimised, how we can manage to achieve good and appropriate research and working conditions for research environments, while ensuring the integrity and well-being of individuals, so that research does not predate privacy. I think we've done well. Relatively large changes have been proposed to some paragraphs in the current treatment setting, compared with what was presented in due course. The rapporteur has done a very good job, I would say, just to try to link these different things together, so that the law will be the best for research. Research is not to be done on the premises of research, and research is not to be done just because you want to research. The research must have a purpose, and the aim is to be able to improve even better in the treatment of diseases, to know more about the diseases and how to prevent and treat the diseases. And not least, how are we going to be able to make the Norwegian health system even better - and not just Norwegian? How are we going to be able to contribute by facilitating our research environments, so that we can also attract foreign competence to Norway? And how are we going to be able to contribute even more, including internationally, with the results we can get in Norway? Some of what Norway is known for is that we have a good and transparent society, we have good records, and we are a relatively small population. We've already started more major projects. I show you, among other things: to HUNT in the North Throne Team, so we have all the assumptions. But what this must never be at the expense of, is precisely what has to do with the integrity and well-being of the individual. It's also taken in several places, and it's very joyful, especially in one sentence that I want to refer, because here lies some of the main essence of the Progress Party, which shows what we mean by this: ‘The well-being and integrity of participants shall take precedence over the interests of science and society. ‘... In other words, the integrity and well-being of the individual shall be elevated. We've gotten this into more paragraphs, which just show the importance of these things. It is also fully in line with what is referred to as the Helsinki Declaration, which shows the relationship between the individual and what is involved in research. I think everyone sitting in this room knows one thing, and that's that there will always be scientists who want to research almost everything, if the possibilities are right for it. Then it's important that we from the political team go in and put our feet down and say, "Yes, but within given limits! We're going to set that limit in many ways here today. From the fact that this was a law in which one had in many ways two almost stony fronts, we have now met very well. It's really very little today that distinguishes between those behind the legal text itself, the majority position, and what a minority has as an alternative. But there is one thing in particular that we need to pay attention to, and that is the disagreement that is linked to the proposal of the government parties, which is that children between the ages of 12 and 16 in defined areas should be able to have a autonomy of consent. This must not be abused! This is a very important point. No one has to come and say that a 12-year-old - a person of 12 years - should be able to have such competence within a wide range and give consent! I'm warning you. That is why the Progress Party does not vote for it. That regulatory change should not have been there, but the rest of the Progress Party is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e111	The starting point for this bill is the desire to facilitate better medical research. All batches support the objective of simplifying the bureaucratic procedures associated with such research and thereby stimulating more knowledge of health and healthcare. Nevertheless, the case shows that the parties have fundamentally different views as to how far individual human beings can be sacrificed for the interests of the community. The right has always defended individual human rights, even when they are contrary to the interests of the community. We do it again today when we criticize the Government for sacrificing the interest of individual privacy and self-determination in order to achieve better health research. Our starting point is that health information is so sensitive and private information that privacy concerns are particularly important in this context. It is the individual human being, not the state, who has to have private health information. From the Right we are pleased that we are together with the Christian People's Party and the Left on all the key questions discussed in the vote. We also note that central professional environments and patient organisations share our concerns about the position of privacy in future health research. However, there is also reason to praise the government parties in Stortinget, as several have also done, for meeting us in respect of some parts of the bill. It is widely agreed that as a general rule, the patient must consent to research. This general rule is largely undermined by the far-reaching derogations proposed by the Government. The most comprehensive proposal is the provisions of Sections 28 and 35, which mean that both biological material and health information obtained in healthcare can be used for research without the consent of the patients. From the right-hand side, we're critical of this. The fact that sensitive information is distributed to more than those who have been given the information in confidence is problematic in itself. This is even more problematic when no attempt is made to obtain the patient’s consent. This means that the individual no longer has his or her own health information or biological material, but that it is controlled by the State. We also record that the government parties in Stortinget have met us on the basis of this criticism and have proposed a wording that the patient's welfare and integrity should be safeguarded. However, on the right-hand side, we would warn against these exceptions being practised in such a way that the general rule of consent is eroded. We also see it as essential that health information to be used in research be stored encrypted, in order to safeguard privacy as much as possible. This, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have proposed inclusion in Section 32. It seems unintelligible that the government parties do not support this. In the light of the same considerations that I have now explained, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, promotes proposals to tighten up the exemption provisions of Sections 15 and 16 of the bill. In the Odelstingsproposition, the Government promoted a proposal that health research could be carried out on children aged 12 to 16 without the consent of their parents. On the right, it appears quite unacceptable that parents should be deprived of the right, and the duty, to assess whether it is best for the child to participate in health research or not. We are therefore pleased that the government parties in Stortinget have met us by proposing a general rule that consent be obtained from the parents as a prerequisite for participating in such research. Of course, the child’s right to privacy applies independently. However, the right cannot support the Government Party's proposal for a regulatory body where the Ministry may in practice derogate from the requirement of parental consent in relation to research into children of this age group. This may help to erode the general principle of consent in this area as well. For the Right, it is essential that the consideration of the individual must outweigh the consideration of the research and the interests of the community. History is full of ugly examples of the consequences of the opposite. If there really is concern for the individual who is to be the most important, the right to privacy and the right to have access to personal and health information must be real. The right is concerned that this law is leading us in the wrong direction - towards a society where privacy and self-determination are becoming weaker. I refer to the proposals that have been put forward in the vote, where we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e132	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e135	There are many examples that we need to focus on ethics in research. Both the MIDI study, where the Biotechnology Act was broken, and the case where a scientist was taken for cheating, illustrate that. The Health Research Act shall safeguard the rights of test persons and the protection of personal integrity. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes a health research law. First of all, the law has a purpose paragraph to ensure good and sound medical and health research. With this law, we have passed a series of unwritten research rules. Requirements for consent have been laid down in the law. That's good, and it'll hopefully strengthen privacy. Furthermore, responsibility and control of research have become clearer, and hopefully the law will also make it more transparent and predictable to be a health researcher. During the examination of the legislative proposal, it has been difficult to assess when it is to be opened in order to derogate from the consent requirement. In the eyes of the Christian People's Party there shall be very weighty reasons for it. The government has proposed the eroding of the requirement of consent in § 14, 15, 16, 28 and 35. Although research can contribute to new and important knowledge, the objective must not be sacred. Research must never be at the expense of privacy. Wide agreement means an exception to the requirement of consent, since it is granted for a research purpose, not for a specific project. This imposes extra requirements on the provision of detailed information. Bjørn Hofmann, researcher at the Department of Medical Ethics at the University of Oslo, suggests that information prior to examinations and tests should be thorough since we are getting more and better analytical methods. People can experience getting knowledge of their own health that they don't want to get. An example of this is the MIDI project, where many parents did not want to know that their child was equipped for type 1 diabetes since it could not be prevented or cured. It will be the responsibility of the researcher to ensure that participants understand what they are participating in and that they are prepared for the consequences of participating. The Christian People's Party is voting - as several have said here - against the Government's proposal to waive the requirement of consent both in the field of biological research and health information, when they are collected in healthcare in connection with diagnosis and treatment. If biological material or health information is to be used for research purposes, consent shall be obtained first. We believe that this is important for people's confidence in our health care. So for research on children and young people, i.e. people without consent, and they are in a special position. The Christian People's Party supports the principle that children should be able to participate in decisions involving themselves. Nevertheless, it is difficult to see the consequences of being involved in research projects as data protection and knowledge about disease risk are topics on which there is often little awareness among young people. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support the Government's proposal to let young people between 12 and 16 years of age decide whether to participate in research without parents knowing it. We do not believe it can be justified that this should happen in cases where serious incidents such as violence and abuse can occur, that is. that parents have a self-interest in not researching the children. Hopefully there are, and I think that in our society too, other ways to capture these children - like school, health center, child protection and other - than that it's going to come out through research. It may also be demanding for children to have to answer questions about violence and abuse, without perhaps getting involved there and then. Finally, it is very positive that the Committee agrees on the most general issues also in this legislative proposal. Like the representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli, I would like to commend the parties to the government, not least the rapporteur, for the willingness to meet and change on many important points in this matter. It has been a very good work in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e152	I understand that one of the Committee's work on this matter has succeeded in reaching a large degree of agreement, which was not obvious when the bill was presented. There are several people who have been involved. The aim of the Act is to promote good and ethically sound medical research and health research. History shows that abuse has occurred in medical research, including in this country. It is therefore necessary to include medical and health research in a safe law to protect people from physical and mental harm, while at the same time providing researchers with clear and clear legislation and adequate control procedures. The legislative proposal, with the changes made to it, will contribute to the quality of research and facilitate the work of researchers by bringing together medical and health research into one law. It is important that the councils and committees which assess and approve research projects are broadly composed and competent in both medicine, law and ethics. REK, the Regional Ethics Committees, is entrusted with new tasks and is given sole responsibility for carrying out assessments carried out by other bodies. Therefore, competence is required when REK conducts a research ethical assessment for each project at the same time as the conditions of the law have to be tested. It is therefore essential that the Regional Ethics Committees allocate resources to build up the competences and capacities necessary to carry out the tasks assigned to them by the legislative proposal. As I said at the outset, the government bill has been the subject of a process in the committee's work. One of the areas in which the Committee has made a clarification and makes proposals is that the welfare and integrity of research participants must take precedence over the interests of science and society and that Section 5 on soundness must be seen as a guide to the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e163	As has been said before, we have spent a long time in the Committee on this matter. It's important that we spend time when we have complicated things. I must say that this matter has been difficult, and it has not least been important. The left has had many objections to the proposals that were originally made here, because we believe that some of them were contrary to important privacy principles and human rights. As many other speakers have said here today, we are very pleased that the Government has moved in this matter. It's true that when you're on two different sides of the path and meet in the middle, the starting point may be relatively far away, but still one comes to the center. There are some ball players here who might be playing long balls in the middle. I think I would be so honest to say that the case spokesman, the committee leader, the representative from the right, and not least the representative from the SV in the committee, have helped us get the result that is now on the table. I have to say that I have at least very much appreciated the recordings I have received from the representatives I mentioned, not least from the representative Ballo from SV, who unfortunately is not here. I believe that the views and the commitment he has with regard to privacy, research and human rights are important. I think it's necessary to stifle the researchers and the government's registry to some extent. What is it that's good to research? Well, it's up to who to access our health information, and what kind of consequences it has to introduce passive consent. That is what this debate, after the opinion of the Left, is primarily about. Let's say it immediately: The left will get more research. Increased knowledge of the context of health and social research is positive, but research within this area is much more challenging than other research, because it touches and approaches the individual. It may seem both invading and offensive if it is done incorrectly. A zero vision inside this field I think we're going to ignore. Here it is about making use of some limitations and making guidelines that are as good as possible. Therefore, we should be more cautious when it comes to health and social research than to much other research. Our health information and our personal history is the most private thing we have. It's about living together, it's about family relationships, and it defines us as human beings. Everyone has the right to a real privacy. Otherwise, it is very easy to say that we are going to solve all the world's problems, almost to say. Then we have to know more, we say. Then it's easy, not least for us politicians, to go into the trap and say, "Yes, we're going to do that, and we're going to do that." It's not like that, I think, that statistical information on death and life can lead to solutions for the individual. A solution for one individual can't transfer on the neighbor, to say it that way. In the Committee's work, we in the Left have pointed out the problem of classroom research on very sensitive topics. That is why the Left will have a review of the research on children and young people and their protection, and we are promoting an own proposal on this. I can immediately take up the suggestion that the Left Alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e178	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e182	Medical and health research is very important. We also need such research in Norway to gain knowledge about the diagnosis and treatment of disease — and to ensure that we have as good a health service as possible at all times. This type of research must be legally supported by legislation. Today’s legislation is complicated and not well regulated in some areas either. There are many laws regulating different aspects of research, and several bodies have to assess a research project before it starts. This is a time-consuming process. We often see that different instances today overlap with each other in relation to which themes to consider, and they may also produce different results. In our proposal for the new Health Research Act, we have essentially added all decision-making powers to the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics, abbreviated REK, as several have been involved. The REKs are multi-disciplinary and shall have competence in relevant research disciplines, ethics and law. In addition, toy players shall be represented in the committees. The Committees must see the wholeness of each research project and ensure that the legal requirements are met and that the project is ethically sound. As the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee also points out, the REKs need to look at research projects together and monitor developments in privacy and other ethical issues. One of the main objectives of this proposal is to ensure that research now and in the future remains a high standard and ethically sound, while at the same time providing researchers with simpler and better regulation to deal with. This has two aspects: the Health Research Act must prevent fraud and ensure that all research goes right – and the law must ensure that research participants are protected. The last is the most important thing. As regards the prevention of fraud, the Health Research Act has several provisions to ensure that research is carried out within such a framework, so that fraud is caught. As mentioned above, it is the REK that shall assess all applications by virtue of being the approval body. In addition to the general requirements of Section 5, the law requires any research project to have a research manager. This will typically be an institution, and the requirement will place a general responsibility at system level. This has not been statutory before. Furthermore, as is known, a project manager is required to be responsible for the day-to-day activities and a research protocol is to be established. A register of registered and completed research projects shall also be established after the proposal to allow society to monitor the nature of medical and health research undertaken. The second main component of good and sound research is to protect the person involved in the research - and I would say, seafaringly. All regulation of medical and health research must ensure that the interests of the research participant are taken into account. This applies regardless of the theme of research. In the work on the bill, therefore, we placed great emphasis on finding the right balance between society's interest in facilitating research for the benefit of all and the interest of privacy. I have noticed that the Health and Care Committee has given particular attention to this in its examination of the proposal. I believe that a good balance has been found between the consideration of the individual and the consideration of research. In relation to the health requirement in Section 5, the research shall be based on respect for human rights and human dignity. The well-being of the participants will take precedence over the interests of science and society - and here I have noticed that on the part of the Committee there are proposals to add ‘integrity’ to the legal text. The provisions of Section 5 guide how other provisions of the law are to be interpreted and understood. The Regional Committees for Medical and Health Sciences must ensure that the requirements of Section 5 are met - in any assessment they must make. The general rule of the Health Research Act is that medical and health research requires the consent of the research participants. But in practice, we know that it is not always possible to obtain consent. It may be because the research deals with an acute illness, it may be because you want to research dementia, and it may be that you want to research old patient data, and there is reason to believe that there is a lot of it around Norwegian hospitals that you have so far not been able to use to improve patient treatment. Or it might be hard to find the patient because he's dead, moved, changed his name, etc. The Government has therefore proposed some exemptions from the consent requirement, but under strict conditions and only in certain cases. I have also noticed what the committee thinks about this in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e213	I want to ask a question to the Council of State. But first of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for meeting up with this work. I think it has been very constructive, and I think we can all agree that we have actually got a better bill. My question concerns Section 28 and the introduction of so-called passive consent to research on biological material collected in connection with diagnosis and treatment, and the establishment of a reservation register, if any. If we're going to make it work, the information obligation is very important, and what we're informing about is actually being done in a proper way, so that the patient involved gets information about these things. Then I would like to ask the Council of State the following question: Will you now ensure that a thorough advance work is done here, which can just ensure that the information given is relevant and understandable to patients, so that you know what you are actually going into and what rights you have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e222	First of all, I would like to agree that it has been a very good cooperation. Now, it is not normal for governments to praise committees, case rapporteurs or, for that matter, committee leaders, but I can join in the praise given by the committee chairman in this connection, which I also believe has been good, and which he also gave to the case rapporteur for the good work done in the committee. I also agree with Mr Nesvik that we have achieved a good result in a very difficult matter. So it's quite obvious -- I can only answer yes -- that prior to this coming into force, on the basis of the decision that Odelstinget is going to make today, we're going to do a thorough job of informing, so that everyone knows what they're dealing with, what it means, and what a person might go into. Then we have challenges in cases where it is not possible to obtain consent. But I've been following closely what the committee thinks about it, and I also perceive that there is quite a broad consensus on what needs to be done in those cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e229	As I was in my main post, we are pleased that the government parties have met us in terms of the requirements for parental consent in the field of health research of children aged 12 to 16. We see it as an important principle that parents or superiors as the child's closest must consider whether it is in the child's interest to participate in such research or not. Of course, the child should be entitled to confidentiality with regard to the information communicated. Furthermore, it is clear that the child himself must have the right to refuse to participate in research, even if the parents agree. My question is whether the Council of State can explain the types of health research that it is appropriate to permit without parental consent and the reason why parents should not be given the opportunity to refuse to participate in such projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e236	I believe that the amendment that the Committee has now proposed in its position on the Odelstinget is a good proposal, and it is full to live with in the field of research on children aged 12 to 16. The general rule, as the representative is very familiar with, is that parents or others must consent if they are to be researched on children in this age group. When the Government, the government parties and the parties supporting this have been concerned that there must also be exceptions to this general rule, I would first like to make it clear that there will be exceptions, and that there will be strict rules and strict conditions. It is also clear that there may be specific cases where parents may have a self-interest in not researching information which they do not wish to provide. This could be done, for example, by: It's about violence and assault. So the next question is: Given that a scientist gets it -- what happens then? I heard it was raised in the debate, and that is a very understandable question. Then it will be so that [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e245	It's probably the same thing, so maybe it's possible for the Council of State to complete. We'll see. This is the case with children aged 12 to 16 and whether they should be able to give their own consent. The reasons given by the government parties are issues of violence or abuse. I liked to read better what was in the proposition from the Government. There, this was related to the issue of violence and assault as a point to be brought back to later, i.e. that one would investigate in which cases - and how - this might be done. In any case, I understood the proposition so that you would come back, possibly also to Stortinget, with how this might be handled. Now it's added as an exception. I'm very concerned about this, and I can imagine asking the Council of State how she thinks this should be done, and who should be involved in making these exceptions. As is currently available, it includes both rare diseases, such as violence and abuse, and youth surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e252	I can perhaps continue where I left off in the previous answer, because I expect it to be of interest to the representative, too, Mr. Davøy. If it is discovered within a strongly restricted refuge -- that's what we're talking about here, because this won't be the usual thing -- that there's violence or abuse you're facing, it's that if a scientist is a health professional, this has a duty to report to child protection. It is also such that regardless of whether the researcher is a health professional or not, if there is a risk of recurrence, you must report it to the police. It's not like you're just sitting there with an information if a child is subjected to violence or abuse. There will be a very limited regulatory helmet, that is, exceptionally, in this case, and it is in the nature of the matter that this will not apply to all kinds of things. It'll be very narrow. That's this job we're going to do. We're going to follow what Odelstinget is going to adopt today, and we're going to maritimely focus on what is Odelsting's intention in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e261	It's possible that my question will lie a little bit on the side of what we're necessarily discussing. We're now getting what I want to say is a good law. We've got a lot of sections together, and we're making it more transparent and easier to relate to these. You clearly express procedures for how these things are going to be done, but I have a question related to those who are actually going to use this law. We have seen a number of suggestions related to, among other things. play in scientific positions where you look at the economic aspect, including: enormous variations, in being able to recruit and get people to stand in the research positions. My question to the Council of State is, when we are going to have a good research law in place today, will you go further and look at the very framework conditions of those who are going to run this research, so that we can get a step further there? What can we expect from the Government in time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e268	It is clear that the representative here raises an important question, which I feel is a little on the side, but as we have said, it is important for us to be able to implement this important law. The government is concerned that we are able to recruit well for important research positions, but I can't over the table - to use that expression - answer quite clearly to what the representative here asks about. It would be quite natural for us, in the follow-up to this as well, and generally in relation to the question the representative here raises, to have close contact with the Ministry of Knowledge, which has a primary responsibility for that particular problem. But we have the same goal: to have good enough researchers in these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e275	Back to my first line. What I'm very concerned about is that a research project reveals some research questions, that children come into a situation where maybe hidden experiences and traumas arise, and that this should lead to a researcher possibly being able to report the matter to child protection or the police. Just like that, I think it's incredibly difficult, and it's perhaps a little dangerous for children to be asked on their own about such difficult questions by researchers who don't want any treatment skills, or for the part demands that they do something there and then other than report. That's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e283	I'm dealing with what Odelstinget is going to adopt. I hear that the representative, Mr Davøy, disagrees with the position of the committee. Let me just as strongly as I can, stress that what we're talking about here is a limited exception. That's what we're going to do to define what is. Violence and assault can be an example. It is also very important to repeat that there are researchers who are health professionals, and in those situations they have a duty to notify child protection. But then there is also at the bottom here, as I heard the representative Davøy said earlier, that we have other arrangements to facilitate the capture of children who suffer differently, i.e. kindergartens, schools, child protection, school health services, etc., so that's not the primary purpose of the home. But it's clear that you get this information, it also needs to be handled properly, so that the children who need follow-up get the necessary follow-up if they haven't already received it. I really feel that we agree that in such situations children will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e288	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e293	First of all, on behalf of the government parties, I would like to thank you for the good words that have come to us. Of course, we are happy about that. As I was in my first post, I also believe that the work of the Committee has been well managed, that there has been a good dialogue. I also think that this debate has shown that there is a fairly large political consensus on this law. I will therefore not help to extend the debate very much, but just briefly comment that I am a little surprised by the critical review that § 28 and 35 has received, especially perhaps from the Right. In other words, the paragraphs on access to biological material and health information collected in healthcare are concerned with research. I think it was said that these were far-reaching exceptions. I don't know if I can agree. I'm not going into that discussion too badly right now. But at least it is that, with regard to these paragraphs, we have met in the Committee, and I think it is important that it appears from the debate that there is an overall committee which, after all, promotes these paragraphs, although there have been some different approaches to them initially. The alternative proposals available relate to sections 15, 16 and 27 in addition to section 17, for which it is a proposal from the government parties. I think it's important to clarify that. Otherwise, I would just like to say that I think the debate here has reflected the dialogue we have had in the committee. It's been good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e302	So I allow myself to extend the debate a little bit, three more minutes, because I think this is so important. It's the same thing that I had a line on, that is, with the consent of children between the ages of 12 and 16, who still worry me. I really do want to send some messages to the Council of State when the work is going to go on in the Government. Now this exception comes, and it really has to be worked hard to make it as narrow as possible. I would like you to end up saying that we don't do it anyway, but it's probably too optimistic. The reason why I think it is very difficult is also that there are so many different signals from the government parties and the government about what should be exempted, or what to assume in order for children to give their consent. For in the government odelstingsproposition, it is stated that ‘strong consent requirements may lead to little research being carried out on certain patient groups’. There's some background for exceptions here. So you're signaling that it might be about rare diseases. At the same time, there is also an example of cases where the collection of sensitive personal data in a youth survey should be the basis for such consent directly from children. And so you've been saying from the government parties in dealing with the odelstation proposition that it can be about violence or assault problems, where, of course, in some cases, parents can have a self-interest in not being researched. So there we are in the Storing and are very uncertain about what this is really going to be. That is why I repeat that it would be desirable to come back to Stortinget and we got a discussion where several of us could join in and in a way be sure that such an exception, if it should come, was actually very, very strict, and not least that these children/youths are involved, will be kept in a good way if, as is now the case, one chooses that they should be able to give their own consent, without the parents knowing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e311	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate is closed. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e319	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e327	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Ole Tegen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-5, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 6, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for conditions for the supply of human biological material from research biobanks to the Public Prosecutor’s Office. ‘... Proposal No. 6, from the left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to review research ethics rules for masters and doctoral degrees based on research on children and young people at the intersection of health and social research and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e675	Paragraph 15, second paragraph, first and second sentence, has an alternative proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘In the Act on Medical and Health Research, the first and second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15 shall be replaced by the following: If it is impossible to obtain new consent, the Regional Committee on Medical and Health Sciences may authorise new or amended use of previously collected human biological material or health data without new consent. [[Health Research Act]] This can only happen if the research is of very significant interest to society and there is no risk of infringing individual integrity or privacy. ‘... Also to Section 16, fourth paragraph, there is an alternative proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘In the Law on Medical and Health Research, the fourth paragraph of Section 16 shall be replaced by the following: If this is absolutely necessary for carrying out research of major societal importance, the Regional Committee on Medical and Health Sciences may permit continued research on the material or deferred destruction, deletion or extradition until the research project has been completed. [[Health Research Act]] This can only happen if the research does not represent any kind of breach of individual integrity or privacy. ‘... Furthermore, there is a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre for a seventh paragraph of Section 17, proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The seventh paragraph of Section 17 of the Act on Medical and Health Research is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide that for special types of research projects children aged 12 to 16 may itself consent to research into health information. [[Health Research Act]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the requirements for such consent. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e721	The President will now refer to voting proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e739	President! I didn't hit the button in time. I was distracted by the music out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e744	The representative should probably have voted in favour. Then there will be 58 votes against and 18 votes in favour of the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e1283	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they are against Section 27, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e1302	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e1312	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e1322	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27-lower.ana.ud2053e1365	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting has been cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
