ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e30	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative. [[The representative had to be handed over by the secretary.]] Is it the secretary or the Thommessen who makes the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e37	Thommessen will take the opportunity to give honor to an ever-present and helpful corps in Stortinget. On behalf of the representatives of Kari Lise Holmberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the review of the school situation of minor asylum seekers residing in reception centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e44	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e47	I have the honour, on behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien, Kåre Fostervold and myself, to make proposals on the preparation of a nuclear power report.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e52	The representative, Mr Halleraker, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e55	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, make proposals to ask the Government to issue a national market for green certificates. On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I would also like to make proposals to ask the Government to submit a report on web policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e62	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e80	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to each party and up to 10 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Freddy de Ruiter - for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e91	The relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church has been debated for generations. There have been different approaches to those debates, but the outcome has once again given somewhat the same result, namely that there has been, the tradition of faith, strong ties between state and church. Thus, the very constitutional provisions that established the church system have been in place for almost 200 years. The attitude to decisions today paves the way for the future relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. I'll come back to a little later. There is no doubt that questions about what relations there should be between the state and the Norwegian Church involve the population. We meet those who have a sincere fear that when someone calls for a distinction between state and church, it may mean that the Church is taken from them. Others believe that the state church system we have today is an anachronism. Several political parties have dealt with this matter in their central bodies. Although the temperature around these questions has at times been high and some political parties have characterized others in a little lucky light, time has also been used to form the basis for good conversations. Those talks were formalised into real negotiations in April this year, when all political parties wanted to find a political solution to key issues. By the fact that all the parties had a common starting point for what one wanted to find a solution to, and that at the same time there was a genuine desire to achieve a broad political settlement in such an important matter, one managed to reach an agreement. The committee's treatment of the matter has been influenced by this good will to stand together to find a solution that all parties agree on. The Committee emphasises the need to implement the proposed changes in a way that meets the need for continuity and security, while emphasising the development of a modern church in line with society. The Committee points out that the Norwegian Church should be further developed as an open and inclusive people's church, and that church democracy should be strengthened, so that the church-elected bodies get better democratic legitimacy and anchoring among church members. Entrance to the contract unit was the aim of transferring the appointment of bishop and prosthetics from the Church Council of State to the church organ. This should be possible after a democratic reform has been implemented. The content of this democratic reform is detailed in the position of a working group called the Bakkevig Committee. However, the political agreement has given three important elements: that there should be real choices, that there should be increased use of direct elections, and that church elections should be at the same time as public elections. The background selection setting will now be sent to the hearing, and we will come back to the treatment of the later. With regard to the proposals for constitutional changes, this applies to all seven paragraphs that currently establish and regulate the State Church system. Section 2 of the Constitution is proposed to: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ Paragraph 4 of the Constitution is proposed to be amended to: ‘The king shall repent of the Evangelical-Lutherian religion.’ Paragraph 16 of the Constitution is proposed to be amended to: «All Invaders of the Kingdom have free religious practice. The Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, remains the Church of Norway and is supported as such by the State. Detailed provisions concerning its system shall be laid down by law. All religious and life-seeking communities shall be supported on a equal footing."; In Sections 21 and 22, the word «spiritual» is deleted. The second paragraph of Section 12 of the Constitution is repealed, as is the second paragraph of Section 27. These proposals will be promoted later and, as you know, these constitutional changes will not be dealt with until the next enlargement period. With regard to funding and financial instruments for the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-seeking communities, the members of the Committee agree that the present system should continue. In this it is that the State has the primary responsibility, and the compensation scheme for religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church is to be ensured almost the same financial contribution from the government as the Norwegian Church. The Committee also agrees that today's legislation on burial management should be continued, but that adjustments should be made to protect minorities. All political parties agree that it is important to facilitate life-vision-neutral ceremonies. At the same time, however, they agree that this needs to be further investigated, both in view of the possible legalisation of municipal responsibility and funding. I would like to further explain the views of the Labour Party on this matter. A central objective of the policy of belief and life is to actively support and facilitate the diversity of beliefs and life in society. This is a fundamental value for the Workers' Party and a fundamental value in a free society. The Labour Party will be involved in and strengthen and protect this freedom. While it used to be mandatory to profess evangelical Lutheran religion, there is now just as much Norwegian and equally good a citizen if you belong to another religious or life-viewing society, or if you have no such affiliation at all. Human rights and religious freedom are not guaranteed simply by giving people the right to live freely as believers in their hearts. These rights also have a public side: one should be able to tell about one's faith, give physical expression to it in buildings, in writing and in speech, in worship with others and in teaching. This is not only to be permitted by the public but also to facilitate. This is what the Working Party will work for. It's freedom of faith. It's real respect for human rights. What has been and is always going to be wrong is when these rights only apply to someone. The working party is very pleased that the agreement that forms the basis for the position being taken today is very close to the party’s national meeting decision. The Labour Party believes that the democratic legitimacy and self-understanding of the elected church bodies must be strengthened before the authority to appoint bishops and prosthetics can be transferred from the Church Council to other church bodies. This places a not insignificant responsibility on the Church itself, but it also shows that there must be a good communication between the ministry and the Church itself in the processes that are now starting to achieve the stated objectives of the agreement between all the political parties on the Stortinget. For the Workers' Party, it is an important principle that reforms in the relationship between the State and the Church should not result in a higher cost for those who are members. The Workers' Party believes that financial instruments must ensure that the Church remains nationwide, and we must ensure that it does not create financial problems for people to use the Church's services for example. weddings, tombs, baptisms or confirmations. Previous investigations did not lead to a distinction between state and church, but to a series of reforms. Now, however, is the time to make new adjustments. It is the responsibility of politics to protect freedom of religion, the right of individuals to choose their beliefs freely. The content of democracy is about more than secret elections. There shall be broad space for individuals and freedom of organisation. The policy must protect this. We need common and good solutions. We have to take care of the traditions and be open for a new time. In the light of these political objectives, the fact that society is still changing, and that we now have a great deal of consensus between all political parties on the Grand Duchy, I am pleased with the decisions we are going to make today, and very excited about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e145	I will first be allowed to thank the case rapporteur, Torfinn Opheim, for a very good work during this process. For a number of reasons, he has no opportunity to be present today, but I still want to give that tribute to the case rapporteur. In addition, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all of us on this historic day, and perhaps in particular the representative Ljunggren, who is so lucky that she also has her birthday on this historic day, which will be remembered by many - if not the date, so at least the decision that is being taken. The relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church has been a politically controversial issue for generations, as the previous speaker said. There has been no strong demand for state and church to separate layers or get looser ties, but more and more people have engaged in the debate, and it has taken a fresh turn in recent years. The Progress Party will, as you know, implement a distinction between state and church because we believe it is unnatural that politicians should have the last word in church affairs. Although today's church system has transferred much authority to the Church itself, this kind of delegation can be withdrawn, and politicians can once again sit down and change the liturgy in the Church. Such a church will soon lose legitimacy among church members. The Progress Party believes that it is a prerequisite for an open people's church to be independent and free from political overarching. We have seen a number of examples of political overgovernment of the Church, especially by the appointment of church leaders. We have witnessed insurrection because politicians in the Church Council ignore the church vote by e.g. Episcopal appointments. The last time we saw it was the appointment of Bishop of Mora. It is striking that the church vote had to give way to that appointment only days after the conclusion of the agreement we celebrate today. It is claimed that the consensus now reached on the future state - church relationship is the largest church unity since the Reformation. I don't know if there's any basis for such a claim, but it's worth noting that the agreement ensures the development of the people's church into a more independent and free church community, which no longer wants church organs through politicians and the Constitution. I would like to acknowledge that the Advance Party is very pleased with the agreement. The majority of our primary interests are quite well cared for in this agreement, and it is a joyous day for all of us who fight for a strong and free people's church. The agreement does not guarantee a final divorce, but a separation has been taken out and, as usual, a separation must take place during a separation period. In this case, the separation period is a little longer than the marriage law prescribes, but after 2013 it is natural for a new review of phase two in the process of freeing the Church. The Progress Party does not conceal that, after the 2013 agreement period, we will propose to carry out further reforms in the relationship between church and state in the direction of completely separating them when the separation period is over. One important step in that direction is to make the Church a legal entity of its own. It is not covered by this agreement. It's been a very interesting process. I have to admit that part of us, including myself, has been quite sceptical about how this process would end. Time passed, and the opposition was very impatient--became even more impatient and even a little more impatient, and finally came the message, but there was not much for that reason. Many of us were waiting for conversations to be initiated, and the time passed. But then the upstream side came, and then the interview also started, and a real question was asked. It became intense, and it became good. The result was that almost everyone went over the finish line at the same time, and not everyone asked that end like that. I must also acknowledge that the Council of State has made a great impression on me in these negotiations. Despite the fact that at times it was hot, the Council of State and an overall opposition were always willing to find the solutions that eventually United us, and I think that was good work. In particular, I would also like to say that I am very pleased that this agreement is now included in the agreement we are discussing today. There has been a part that has signaled uncertainty and uncertainty if the ties between the state and the church are further disbanded. The church has been there for us in sorrow and joy, and it is there when we need it. Some have feared that by doing so the Church will change character and become more exclusive. I don't think that's the basis for that fear. The Church of People will always be there for us when we need it. We still want someone to turn to in joy and in sorrow. The Church does not change character, but it gets the power and the right to itself back. It becomes a stronger church, not a weaker church. One of the elements of the agreement is the implementation of a democratic reform in the Church. The Progress Party has an inherent confidence that the Church itself will be able to deal with this without political pressure, which the agreement is based on. Nevertheless, once democracy reform has become an important part of the agreement, there are basically objective criteria for whether democratisation has actually taken place or not, prior to the adoption of the Constitutional Amendment. There are three criteria to be given weight. Firstly, real options must be established. Secondly, increased use of direct selection shall be established. Thirdly, church elections are to be conducted at the same time as public elections. I would like to make it clear that only these factors can be stressed in assessing whether the reform is successful, and there are no quantitative requirements being imposed, only qualitatively. I would like to mention this separately because, in the subsequent debate, we have had some disagreement - it may appear in the media - about how these points should be interpreted. Governments have been ready for the press conference that we organised together, but there have been some different interpretations after that. But I want to be quite clear that it is these three criteria, which are objective sizes, that can be given weight in the assessment prior to the adoption of the Constitutional Decisions. The contract assumes that the benefits are to remain in the State’s employment. In our view, this restriction does not prevent experiments to be carried out with, for example: uniform church management. Therefore, together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Advance Party promotes its own proposal that the Government should come back to the Stortinge with proposals that ensure such a possibility of experimentation. I am aware that there is some disagreement as to whether it is appropriate to open up to such experimentation. The Progress Party believes that there should be opportunity to see administration and church service in the context through such attempts, and experience it as positive, so that in that way you can discover what works well, and what works less well. We think it is natural that the Church is allowed to carry out this type of experiment without being hindered by the state for it. The fund of the information society is not covered by the agreement and there is still considerable political disagreement about the fund's limitations and ownership in a future distinction between state and church. In this regard, the Progress Party will make it clear that it is our opinion that the Fund of the Information Society, by a division, should belong to the Church. We believe that there are good legal and political arguments that support such a view. Today is a brand day. It is a great day for, above all, the Church, but also for the political environment. We have shown that there is the ability to gather around important questions for state, church and people. Major changes are being made by a concerted increase in a few years. Although I may not want to impress my grandchildren with the story of how the arrangement for the new church took shape, the agreement that is being established today as the basis for future constitutional change, a decision my grandchildren and great-grandchildren will actually have a relationship with. Then I can sit at the old home in 65 years and tell my followers that I was there when the free future of the Church was created. And with a benevolent nomination meeting and a good election result, I might also say that I was there when the constitutional changes were adopted. However, the latter will only show the time. With that, I address the minority proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e183	The representative of Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e186	I would also like to start by thanking the case rapporteur, Mr Opheim, for the work he has done, and actually also to pay tribute to all the parties in Stortinget who have participated in a historic agreement that will last for a while. Everyone should have the honor of contributing, and I would also like to add that I think it has been a pleasant experience to be part of the negotiations. It has also been a pleasant experience to negotiate together, all the opposition parties. It is a historic day today, and one can well say that this week has brought several historical events. There will be some disagreement about, but there is no doubt that during this week the Storing has adopted things that have historical significance. We were able to do so in Norway as the Swedes also finally succeeded: where there was initially disagreement about the change of church order, there was finally a unanimous parliament in 2000. The Bondevik II Board appointed the Gjønnes Committee on 14 March 2003. The purpose of the work of the sample was to provide a basis for deciding whether to continue, reform or wind up the church system. The committee gave its opinion on 31 January 2006 and the investigation was sent to a wide-ranging hearing. It took a long time before there was a development in the matter, and the representative, Anundsen, waited for the position both long and well before contact was made with the opposition parties. It only happened at the end of March 2008. Then came April 10th, and the deal was a fact. The agreement we are adopting today represents a historic step towards the winding-up of the church system, and it is based on the broad lines drawn up in the Gehönes Committee. The agreement ensures that the provisions on the church system are removed from the Constitution. I must say that from the Right we came further than I had thought in advance. For the Right, it has always been important that a broad political consensus in the Storting must be built along the main lines that the majority of the Gjønnes Committee drew up. These are the main lines adopted today. For the Right, it was also very important and a crucial point with a whole in the agreement. So there had to be a connection between what we did in relation to the Basic Law Section 2 and the other provisions of the Basic Law that deal with Kirka. To the Right, it was completely unthinkable to imagine a situation in which we lifted the Constitution § 2 but retained the other paragraphs of the Constitution of the Royal Church Government. In other words, it was totally out of date for the Right to remove state religion, but keep a state-run church. It was a logical flaw we thought it was impossible to live with. That is why we are very pleased with the agreement that exists today. There was also a very central point for the Right that what we adopted of changes should lead to the appointment of the own leaders by Kirka Sjögl. For the right, this process has two sides. It is not just about what church order we should have, but it is about what state Norway should be. Faith is a very personal matter, and it is unnatural for a state to stick to a state religion. At the same time, we are of the opinion that it is quite natural that the Norwegian Church has a special position given to the heritage and tradition of Norway, and that place Kirka has had in Norway's history constantly. It is also important for the Right to respect the Church as a religious community. That means that the Church must, of course, have great autonomy in its internal rule, especially in matters of learning and appointment of its own leaders. It is unnatural for a religious society to be governed by the Constitution and by the state as today. A strong state government of the Church as a religious community also bases itself on a notion that the State can ensure a better Christianity than the Church can. It's a show that the Right deeply disagrees with. The right has also always thought that a strong government of the Church is holding the Church back. Democratisation and, to the extent that the process of liberalisation in the Church has never gone faster than in recent years, where Kirka has been given increased maritime governance through the creation of the three-tier model of councils, councils of bishops and church meetings. The democratic reform adopted today in the United Kingdom is, therefore, not about introducing democracy into the Church, but about increasing the freedom to participate in the democracy that already exists. There's a point in the society we live today, that respect for faith may not be as big as it once was. I think it's an interesting theme that a lot of Christian health schools today experience a lot of Muslim activity that wants to go to a Christian free school because those who experience a greater respect for faith than they do in the ordinary public school. I think it's a point to remember, precisely because it shows something about the importance of faith and the importance of respect for faith in society. What we are adopting today is making the changes made to the Constitution irreversible. The provisions of the Royal Church Government will not enter the Constitution again. As I said, we are very pleased with the solution we have been given, and we think it is good that we are now able to loosen the ties between state and church, sail if they do not disappear completely, because we believe that it will lead to closer ties between church and people. The question of the relationship between state and church, or perhaps especially the relationship with the Church, means a lot to a lot of people. This case has produced many reactions of a positive nature. It's rare I've got so many nice feedbacks and cheers along the way that just when we were dealing with this matter -- because people's relationship to the church say, people's relationship to faith, has a lot to say. The agreement adopted sets out three clearly defined components of a democracy reform. Real options shall be available. Church elections are to be held together with political elections, and increased use of direct elections is to be made. For the Right, it was essential to set clear, measurable criteria to avoid vague and discretionary words that could be used for ex post political interpretation. We avoid that now, and we also avoid a discussion about when the Church has become 'democratic enough' to rule in its own house. Because these are many interesting aspects of church democracy. There are no similarities between church democracy and political democracy. And the Church differs from other forms of organization, for example. in such a case as membership is done by baptism, not by active registration, whereas in other organisations it is the opposite. In Kirka it is also the case that outsourcing is the active action, while in other organisations it is often outsourcing through passivity, for example. This is because it does not pay its membership quota. You can also ask: Which church members should have the greatest influence? Are those who go mostly to church, or are they all going to have equal influence? Are there limits to democracy on learning issues in the Church, or are there no limits to democracy? The point is to sketch out that there are a lot of interesting aspects related to church democracy that I am absolutely sure the committee will also be able to discuss in the future as well as the consultation recordings of the Bakkevig Committee will come. In addition to the text of the agreement, the opposition parties agree to introduce a test centre for uniform management. But the parties also say clearly that any continuation of trials should be an assessment matter for the Kirka Sea. In this way you open up good trials, and the good trials can be continued if you want to. The agreement also provides for the continuation of current financial instruments. There is also full agreement that the tomb management is continuing as today, and that investigation is under way with a view to legislating municipal responsibility for life-vision neutral seremony. Just to the last, life-vision neutral serum, it's also important to stress that in many municipalities it'll be a big boost just to make sure you have life-vision neutral serum, and it may well be a task that several municipalities can probably join together, to the extent that they're close together. In conclusion, I just want to repeat my praise to all the parties in this room for contributing to a historic church settlement, which is of a character that will ensure sustainability and legitimacy over time. I think we can look back at the process we've had, and the result we've achieved, and say that we really got to something that was historic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e226	It's the historian who has the privilege of writing history. It becomes a bit violent and almost pathetic when, as part of the resolution, we use the opportunity to make our own decisions as historical ones. It's understandable that we can sometimes get a little bit of a social mood and need to give ourselves a place with historical sus. But I think it makes sense for those who are outside the decision to define what is referred to as ‘historical decisions’. It is an important decision to make today, but the final content and consequences will only be achieved in three to four years' time when the new enlargement is to adopt the constitutional changes and the new church law. The broad majority behind the amendments is such that there is reason to feel confident that the new Storing will adopt the proposals promoted after the vote and the debate. Both the state and the Norwegian Church deserve that the constitutions be cut off - the state because all the formal provisions that may so doubt the state's independence from a particular religious community are unfortunate and will weaken the state as secular authority and so doubt our political authorities that defend pluralism and general religious diversity, the Church because it has a mandate and a mission to challenge us all, and not least the rulers. The Church deserves an independence that does not cast doubt on its legitimacy in the face of power. Our time, both nationally and not least internationally, is marked by a lack of moral voices that have the weight necessary for them to be listened to. The closest thing we get to a political-moral voice is Nelson Mandela, who, with his background from prison, torture and systematic repression, has the courage and the strength to talk about reconciliation and bridge construction in the face of the oppressors. An independent church with its mandate should have all the prerequisites for becoming a moral voice in our time. An independent church must therefore dare to challenge governments and decision-makers in key areas of life and our common future. An independent church cannot end up with a form of moralism in which one points its finger at those who challenge the Church's traditional framework for what is right morality, as demonstrated in recent days. One cannot become a credible moral voice if only the minorities, those who are different, those who have a different orientation, those who cannot accommodate the demands of the majority, who must always be challenged and stigmatized. Today's decision will in a few years give the Church the freedom it needs to become this voice. This is therefore not about who should appoint bishops and other formal institutions, it is essentially about what kind of church the Norwegian Church wants to be, and what kind of role it will have as independent of the state. The mandate of the Church should be clear - that independence should not create confusion and uncertainty. The Church of the State is a widowed child of the one time violence. Just after the Reformation, there was a bond between church and king- and princely power that made the basis for the subsequent development, under the sole king, of a theology in which the king was given all power, even in the Church, and where the king was established by God, in other words, acting on behalf of God. The Toregiment doctrine was developed to keep people calm and ensure that the established structures were not questioned. This symbiotic relationship between the Church and the King still has up to our time, not by the fact that the King as a person has retained his power over the Church, but by the fact that one uses every opportunity to appear together on various major occasions. The fact that the Church of State and the monarchy have survived, I think to a large extent, is due to the close ties that have existed between the Church and the King. The Constitution further guided the ideas of the one-time violence by the fact that a used term ‘shall continue to be’. In addition to the 1800s, the Church evolved towards becoming an official church. Priests and bishops were strengthened in power, the king entrusted to the priesthood to exercise power. The only break with this tradition was that the convention poster was lifted in the 1840s. This occurred under great resistance from the Church of Officials. The role of the Church in the nation building beyond the 1800s is not unambiguous. What is quite clear is that the democratization that began both for the education system and not least for society in general was influenced to a small extent by the Church. In the mid-war period, there were small trends that showed that the Church was not entirely unaffected by what happened in society, by having an established council. As long as the official church had gripped the development, there was little discussion about separating state and church. It's almost 130 years since the Stortinget first presented itself with a proposal to separate the state from the church, but it got little excitement. After the war, the theme has been raised several times, for example: through various investigations. We have now come to the historic point where relations between state and church must and must change. There's actually no way back. We've gone from being a homogeneous society to a pluralistic one. Religious diversity is great. A system in which one religion, one religious community, is linked to the state, as the state church system does, simply cannot be maintained. The state has, as far as practicable, equated the different religious communities. It is difficult today to claim that the Norwegian Church has visible financial privileges. Nevertheless, there is a lot of symbolic power and benefits in a state church system. A democratic government is characterised primarily by the way in which minority rights are respected. When the religious communities of minorities feel discriminated against, the majority shall take it seriously. If we had today decided whether to establish a system of state churches, I think this had actually been perceived as contrary to international conventions. It hasn't been said that the Church of State is, but if we were at scratch and were to establish it, I think it would be defined as being contrary to international conventions. In principle, a church of state following the model we have had is not compatible with the freedom of religion as formulated in various international conventions. To demand a certain view of life, that a council must belong to the Norwegian Church in order to become a member of the government, is simply not going. It is quite incomprehensible that a majority can decide that one religion, one view of life, should be the public religion of the state. That is why the decision we are going to make today, and the decisions to be made in the next major period, are important. Towards the final distinction, the final abolition of ties between state and church, there is a need for different experimental arrangements; there is a need to test different models for the functioning of this church. It is therefore important that the Council of State, when returning to the Grand Duchy with proposals for different experimental models in the future in the light of the study of democracy, also assesses the experimental nature of the Church Act, as proposed by the minority. If it is open and if legally possible, a test should be carried out in many different forms of governance and management systems. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to comment on exactly what is going on in pilot schemes, and to try out different models, including their performance, as far as possible. So I'm going to ask him to comment on that very part of his post -- how he deals with such an investigation -- and to make the necessary assessments so that hopefully we can get to different trials, many trials, where the performance is also part of the trial scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e260	I would also like to thank Mr Opheim for an excellent and tidy job of bringing in the pen the conciliation that we agreed on 10 April. I would also like to thank everyone who was sitting around the negotiating table. It was like negotiations most, sometimes pleasant and pleasant and sometimes very intense, but I think we together managed to come up with something that made us a calm and a good starting point for the future. This is a historic day, at least in my life, and then the representative Rikvam gets to talk about how this is perceived with his eyes. Sometimes on such a day one looks back a little bit, and I have done that--first to my own little story. When I arrived here on 17 October 1997 at Stortinget as an alternate for Jon Lilletun, quite shocked and puzzled that this was going to be my new everyday life, I knew little that a few years later I was going to be a little, but perhaps important piece to give our Constitution a great and Christian value paragraph, to give the Church the right to rule over their own leaders and greater independence. It is a historical settlement, and it is great that the whole Storting is on board in this conciliation. So it might be a little bit more general and a little bit more significant. The issue of distinction between state and church has been one of the most discussed issues in Norway in the last hundred years. But it is not certain that it is the most important question seen with the Church's eyes. The most important question is probably more about what's called the Church's core activity, that the Church can be what it's set to be, church, that is. the local assembly of believers, and at the same time part of the invisible worldwide church. We're discussing the Church's external framework. But the people's and politicians' involvement in the matter comes enough of our history. History tells of the enormous change our society has undergone in connection with the Christianization of our country. Then there was a paradigm shift in Norway that lacks similarity throughout our history. With the new belief, Christian law also entered the Norwegian law. I think today we hardly understand what this meant, namely the breakthrough of a new view of man and human dignity. Children, women and slaves were lifted up. Gradually, there was also a breakthrough for Christian closeness and diaconal work. Centres of care were established in monasteries, and hospitals were built. It was the Church in Norway that organized education and education. After all, this reached a climax under Pietism, when we got the first law of primary school, which from the beginning taught only Christian knowledge. It is quite amazing to think that this was the beginning of the Norwegian educational system - which has once again been the foundation of the emergence of democracy, and as a platform for building our nation and modern Norway. Language, literature and music also have much of their emergence through Christianity and through the Norwegian Church. In the period after we got our constitution in 1814, as we know, there have been huge changes in our society. And there have been significant changes within the Church. Gradually, the Church of State has increased autonomy, with democratically elected bodies such as the Council of Churches, the Council of Bishops and the Council of Churches with their own church meeting. The church meeting is also a legislative assembly on inner-church issues. In general, the Church's own bodies have assumed responsibility in the spiritual/theological field, properly on delegation, except for the appointment of the top leaders, which unfortunately have also been used in political contexts to influence both spiritually and theologically. The look back on history is with us and underlines the strength and depth of the roots of the National Church in our people. It also shows how people and communities and churches are interwoven over time. The most important thing for the Church's future is not the relationship between church and state, but the relationship between church and people. The relationship between the Church and the people is particularly evident in the marking of large national events in sorrow and joy. Events related to our royal house and other occasions affect us as a nation. Here the Norwegian Church has a central role. It is fully possible to ensure that these functions are also continued in a future church model. With such close ties between state and church and with such a large majority church, freedom of belief and life is particularly important. It is one of the guiding principles of our constitution and at the same time a universal right. We have a great responsibility to make things as comfortable as possible, so that freedom of faith is not violated. Freedom of belief and life, together with freedom of expression, is fundamental in a democratic society. This means that the state should not interfere with the beliefs and beliefs of individuals. It also implies that the internal affairs of different religious communities must be respected by the State. The State must not interfere with the inner life, function and organization of the religious community; Learning questions and personnel issues, including the appointment of bishops and pros, should not be determined politically but by the religious community itself. This must also apply to the Norwegian Church. The Norwegian Church must be respected as an independent religious community. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is now pleased that the parties to the Agreement agree to initiate a process in which the parties' common goal is to transfer the appointment of bishops and prosthetics from the Church Council of State to church bodies such as church meetings or episcopal councils. There must be a reform of democracy, as the Norwegian Church itself wants and has worked with over a long period of time. As some of my colleagues have said, the agreement makes clear which elements are to be implemented: increased use of direct elections, church elections are to be carried out at the same time as public elections, and real choices. This is therefore a reform to be assessed on the basis of structure and not as a percentage of the turnout. Let me make it clear: it's about making sure that all members of the Norwegian Church have the opportunity, and that it's easy and simple, to participate and participate in and influence the Norwegian Church, it's not about a duty or a quantity and percentage. The Christian ethics and cultural heritage is an important historical heritage and represents a common value for Norwegian society. Christianity characterizes our human vision, our values, our laws, our history and our culture. This should still be an important part of the core wall of Norwegian society. A new arrangement of the Church-State relationship must not mean that these values are removed from the Constitution. It was an absolute requirement for our national meeting that these values should continue to be part of the Constitution. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with the new value paragraph to replace the second paragraph of the Constitution. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. This Constitution shall ensure democracy, the rule of law and human rights.’ We have secured a new value paragraph that clearly refers to Christian and humanistic values. And with the word ‘remains’ it points both backwards and forwards and is dynamic. I'm not going to go deep in all aspects of the agreement, but it's excellent that for the first time, religious and life-viewing societies and the state's responsibility to fund them come into our constitution. This is, as I have mentioned before, especially important in a society with a majority church of the size we have. It is possible to have a clear value anchoring and at the same time to have an inclusive foundation law. For the Christian People's Party, it is an objective that the Church should become its own legal entity in the long term. We believe we are taking important steps on the way to that today. We also believe that it would be useful for the Council of State to consider different test shelters that allow the Church to have a decision-making basis for designing its own organisation through greater autonomy. There have been demanding negotiations. Everyone has had to give and take, but we feel that the result is well received in the Norwegian people. Now it is the state church's responsibility to accept its responsibilities, it is the people's responsibility to direct their commitment to their local church, and it is the government's responsibility to provide funds to ensure that democratic reform can be carried out in a good way. We have an inheritance to manage. We still need a system that can be a spiritual home for the majority of the Norwegian people. But after 1,000 years the Church may finally have to be mature enough to rule itself and be master of its own house.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e322	The church system has been politically debated and subjected to a number of investigations over the last 150 years. In spite of this, in the Central Party we have not recorded that there is a great demand to change today's church system. On the contrary, we feel that most people perceive today's system as functioning well. As a church society, the Norwegian Church has a very high and stable uprising. About 85 pst. the population is members. So if we take the 2003 figures into account, as the Gehönes range does, it's going to be 90 pst. of children of members of the Norwegian Church baptized. The proportion of the confirmation is 68 pst., wedding of 52 pst. and digging on 94 pst. It bears witness to a church that is strong in the people, and that works well. In any case, it is difficult to read these figures as a danger signal requiring a new and radical reorganisation of the Norwegian Church. The strong gap is also confirmed through the consultation round, with about 85 pst. by the local ecclesiastical bodies, where a clear majority rejected the model of the Gjønnes Committee and supported the maintenance of strong ties between the state and the church. It is well worth noting that on this issue there is a distance between the grassroots of the Church and the Church's leadership, and also to a certain extent between individual parties and the grassroots. In the church-state debate, one of the arguments against today's system is that it discriminates against other religious and life-view societies. Several studies on the state church system have found that it is not. Even the Bakkevig Committee, which was in favour of a distinction between state and church, concluded that ‘it is strictly non-existent in the legal aspects of the state church system that are directly contrary to human rights’. It is then interesting to register comments from people with a different religious affiliation who experience the constitutional anchoring as positive. This because it signals that the state has a clear value anchoring, and it's an expression that the state recognizes the need for, and the value of, the religious. Thus, the explicit recognition of religion as part of the foundation on which we build our state form in Norway by means of the Church of Norway is perceived as reassuring to people who profess other religions here in Norway. It may be close to mentioning today's economic system, in which all life- and faith-based societies receive an equal amount in grants per year. Member. This is an obvious and absolutely necessary mechanism for fulfilling the state's obligations to facilitate full freedom of life and faith. In the Central Party, after the Gjønnes Committee gave its position in January 2006, it has been a thorough and committed debate. The intention of the central party has not been the status quo, but the search for opportunities to continue to develop and reform the church system within the framework of a constitutional church. As can be seen from the setting, where the main position of the lot is referenced, the Central Party considers it possible - and correct - to maintain the core of the State Church system through a renewal. The central party experiences that in this case we represent a broad public commitment to the favor of the state church system. We are therefore pleased that a demanding process has resulted in a uniform agreement between seven parties for a church system that can last over time. The question of a change in the church system concerns both fundamental constitutional conditions and the ability of individuals to practice religion. A constitutional anchoring of the Norwegian Church provides an important reference to the tradition, belonging and identity of Norway as a nation. The central party is pleased that the changes contained in the agreement now provide a good balance by ensuring a continued state church system, while at the same time meeting the Church's desire for increased autonomy. For the Central Party, it has therefore been essential that the repeal of the second sentence of Section 2 of the Constitution, the first sentence, which is today the legal support of the other church paragraphs, be replaced by a new, explicit anchoring of the Norwegian Church. The centre party is therefore pleased that the party's national meeting at this point has been followed up in the proposal for a new section 16. The use of the label ‘public church’ is in itself no guarantee that the Church is actually perceived as open and inclusive. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that the Church does not consist only of the formal ecclesiastical bodies. The Church is the community that includes all baptized people who still choose to be members of the Norwegian Church, regardless of their faith and doubt. For the Central Party, it is therefore essential to fight for the Norwegian Church to be a people's church in the future, where there is room for the little faith and the great doubt. We believe primarily that this is best done within a constitutional state church arrangement where the King of State Council is the supreme church government. The compromise currently being voted on in the Storting involves a process aimed at the liquidation of the Church Council of State and the transfer of bishops and proselytes to church bodies such as the Church Meeting or the Council of Bishops. Let me stress here that the Central Party believes that the agreement on democratic reform does not in any way imply an automatic transfer of bishops and prosthetics. The results of the church elections and the evaluation of the trials under way shall be subject to a real assessment before the Central Party, if appropriate, votes in favour of the relevant constitutional amendments to entrust the appointment of bishops and proselytes to the organs of the Church and to the liquidation of the Council of Churches. In an assessment of the success and functioning of the democratic reform provided for, it will also be crucial for the Central Party whether the institutionalised arrangements lead to the real strengthening of democracy in the ecclesiastical organs so as to provide a sufficiently broad anchoring of the members of the State Church. In this context, the Central Party will stress that it is now entrusted with a considerable responsibility to ensure stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring of its members. The centre party has been especially concerned with ensuring that the Church remains 100 pst. publicly funded. We have warned against an arrangement in which the individual member should be charged some kind of self-payment to be a member of the Norwegian Church. No one should have to search either the wallet or the degree of personal belief in order to be accepted as a full member of the Norwegian Church. The centre party is therefore very pleased that a total accumulation is continuing today's financing system for the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's proposal for a membership fee is now dead, and that is good. A continued state church with public funding is essential for the possibility of maintaining a nationwide church. The approach taken here is an important compromise between parties which have approached each other from the point of view of principle, with a common intention of revising the church system for the benefit of the Church and its members. The hope and belief of the centre party is that even though the ties between the state and the Church with this become more loose, the ties between the people and the Church will be stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e364	It is an important matter that Stortinget deals with. The judgment of history will determine how well the case is managed by those who will follow it up. But the left has faith that the partners will follow it up. The left has faith that the Norwegian Church will be mature to do what is in the agreement. Let me say that as a Norwegian citizen and as a member of the church, I have participated in the Council of Churches, the Council of Bishops and the Church Meeting. I would have believed 20-25 years ago that it would not be possible to obtain the strength and power that I have experienced myself, for example. at the Norwegian church meeting. But it's a fact that it's evolved. It was despite many predictions in advance. It was despite many comments in the past. But in retrospect, the Church meeting, with all the organs it leaves -- the Council of Bishops and local councils -- has proved to have a life force to stand on demanding and difficult questions, both religious and social, and have been able to live with it. It shows a development in the Church that, in my opinion, makes those who are concerned that the Church should not preserve a diversity of the people have no cause for concern. This is also the case, as other representatives have said from the pulpit, that what the Church deals with in terms of faith and liturgical questions is the Church dealing with. For the Left, it was very important, when we went into the negotiations that ended in mid-April, that we could not remove the state's commitment to a confederation, i.e. state religion, without at the same time giving the Church real autonomy over the appointment of bishops and prosthetics. I personally believed, when we went into those negotiations, that it was not possible to get beyond the status quo. I'd like to say that it's a matter of life that you have to express joyous surprises. Then I get to say that I have had some prejudices about the Council of State guessing. I have expressed them in a living way from this pulpit. Let me kill a prejudice -- and that's that it shouldn't be possible to talk to the council in a proper and proper way about what's been done here. It turned out to be wrong. It turned out to be wrong in the sense that we sat and realized that together we were going to do something that was important -- everyone who was there, all the parties involved and the Council of State. I think it's a good day to have some witness, and free witnessing belongs to church life. So this free witness is that I have abolished a prejudice. Since I'm a good liberal, it belongs to life to abolishing some prejudices. In this context, for my part, it led to me being a party to a process that led to the agreement contained in the Storing Notice. It's an agreement that will create looser ties between state and church. It's an agreement that will give the Church a real autonomy through the choice of pros and bishops. It is an agreement that states that we in Norway will have funding arrangements for the Norwegian Church, but also for other faith and life-seeking communities, which are rusty. I would like to say it in a popular way: we do not want funding for religious and life-thinking societies in Norway to lead to dependence on donations either from Texas or from Saudi Arabia. We want us in Norwegian society to have institutions and bodies that have grown up in this community and that live in this society and that in this society are able to deal with themselves and others. In the work we have done, the emphasis is on a reform of democracy. I would like to stress that the democratic reform rests first of all on a democratic structure that has been built up in the past, and which - as I have also said in the post - despite odds perhaps - has grown in the Norwegian Church: the whole structure of the Council of the Norwegian Church, with the councils, with the Councils of Bishops and with the Council of Churches. It is this structure and this structure's own expressed willingness to secure a broader anchoring and legitimacy that meets with the fact that the Council of State put down the Bakkevig Committee with the nominal hand that led to the Bakkevig Committee and the Council of Churches meeting in a common understanding of how to promote proposals based on two wishes: the own established democratic structure of the Church of Norway, and a broad expression for all who are happy in the Church, that legitimacy should be strengthened. Therefore, when the trials are started, the Left sincerely believes that they will succeed in such a way as to ensure that the constitutional provision proposed here, which is part of the agreement, is implemented. It is also true that the conditions attached to measuring this democratic reform do not depend on judgement in terms of percentages, they depend on measurable objective factors such as real choices, increased use of direct elections and church elections together with public elections, i.e. local elections. There are meaningful proposals which can be fully implemented, and which are put in such a way that what the Church itself wants through its work, the Bakkevig Committee has put forward in its position, and what is contained in this agreement, is on a parallel, convergent, close common course. That is why this development of democracy is also a strength for all who want the Church of the People. And the left sees it so that it will lead to the implementation of the constitutional provision that is proposed here. We should like to go a little bit further. There's no doubt about it. Since 1985 we have had the position that the state should not be bound to a confederation, and that the Norwegian Church, like a broad Norwegian people's church, should not have the State as a sovereign. I am aware that there is no real distinction in the agreement today, but we perceive that it is a real process of real liberation from the Norwegian Church as a religious community. And let me say something about it, because earlier in the process it's been talking about the Norwegian Church as a religious community in such a way that as a member of the church in this room I have sometimes felt like an employee in the Vevessen - there's nothing wrong with the Vevessen, but the Vevessen is no religion. That means that a religion is not the religion of the state. A religious community is a living society of people who have in common that they share the faith and the view of life that takes place within the space they are to have. We who have been in that room, and are there, we know that there is a vital and living organization that is able to address strong challenges, and where at the moment a very exciting and vital process is taking place through the reform of faith and baptism training, where the Church really enters into and takes responsibility for what is one of the Church's most important tasks, namely to lead its faith on to new generations. In the broad agreement reached, there is unanimity on all points. At the end, let me address a point that we also agree on, namely that this agreement should be the reason for presenting a broad-based religious policy in Norway. That doesn't mean that we're going to go into neither the Norwegian Church, the Catholic Church, the Free Churches, the Islamic Churches, the Jewish Mosaic Religions, the Human-Ethical Union or others, but we should sit down and find out what practical rules are to apply because we have the situation we have. We should take the challenge that has come from the Norwegian Faith and Life Vision Society Cooperation Council, where everyone agrees that it is right to develop such a policy. The Committee also says here that it asks the Council of State and the Government to come back appropriately with this later. And then in this setting, there's also something about experimentation, and the left is on it. I have also noticed the comment from the representative of Rikvam on this. I am also concerned about how the Council of State views the issue of trials. It is quite important that they are implemented. But I also have the opinion that the minority in the Committee has written that once an experiment has been made, it is assessed on an independent basis which trials are fixed and how they are carried on. It is also natural that the trials should be assessed by those responsible, namely the Church itself. So finally, I started with the wonderful experience of getting into a process that was different from what I had feared. And then you get to say it that if you cultivate fear, you rarely get to some good place. If you're going to build on what's the Church's inner core -- faith, hope and love -- you have a chance to get much longer. And whoever wants to choose a process of boldness and joy will experience that there are more who are on the move than if the journey is to be governed by fear of anything. I have had meetings in this process with the Church of State where I have met people, of the kind of agnostic, member of the Church of State, member of a large party, who believes that one must control the Church of fear of something. Then I used to go around asking if anyone would be my support contact, because I need support contacts if it is to be so scary. I don't think it is. I think that the one who is bold enough will experience that there is greater generosity and liberality in meeting people than it has been. I have experienced it myself in my own meeting with the Norwegian Church. I have also experienced that people I know who belong to minorities in Norwegian society have experienced the same thing. These words merely to establish that the Left is fully behind the agreement that has been concluded and the setting that has been submitted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e393	We politicians often allow inflation in the word «historic». It will not achieve the large budgetary increases in an area until it is historic, or the major reforms until it is historic. It's probably wise, as someone here has said, that we're going to leave to the historians just to write that story, but I don't think it'll be a very crazy analysis or guessing to say that what the Storing is all about today is actually going to appear to be a very important change in our religious policy and in our church policy. One of the best things about our political system is that sometimes, when the matter is important enough, when it means enough to reach agreement, we actually manage to come up with broad compromises in the really big issues and find solutions that most people can feel comfortable with. It is true that there is a comparison between all the parts of the Stortinget. We have a more frequent deal between the government parties and some of the opposition parties. And we're actually going to have all of these, and that's going to give it all an extra dimension. Even more so, it serves our system to the credit that this is happening in an area that in very many countries and parts of the world is the greatest source of conflict, of marking and, in part, of violent and serious disputes. Religious questions, church questions and religious questions are in many places a source of great, great conflicts, for opportunistic games, for power struggles. In this difficult area, we've actually been able to come up with consensus -- and not just consensus, it's really almost fun to hear all the parties say that this is very close to their own position, and that you've got through a lot of what was important for one's own party. It is, of course, the strength of the compromise that the compromise does not have to be worse than the primary point of view, because it combines the primary points of view with the assurance that these things will be implemented, for which a broad compromise is the guarantee. The compromise has a value in itself that goes beyond getting everything exactly the way you thought it would. It also turns out that in this case, although there have been many big words, partly pointed conflicts and debates through the long process, the different parties in the core are not so far apart in their positions. Church questions and religious questions are important to the Norwegian people. That is why it should also be important for us politicians. 82 pst. of all Norwegian citizens are members of the Norwegian Church. In 2007, parents chose over 72 pst. of all births to baptize their child. Over 91 pst. chooses a church tomb. We go to the Church to share joys and sorrows. The Church means a lot to us, and perhaps especially in vulnerable and important phases of life. The main objective of the Great Britain Communication The State and the Norwegian Church is to secure a church that is open, safe and democratic - a broad people's church. When we make religious policies, we must also take into account that Norway is a diverse country. Near 20 pst. the population is not a member of the Norwegian Church. In the last 50 years there have been major changes in our society, and it will also affect the relationship between the state and the Church in the future. At the same time, we have a thousand-year inheritance to take care of. Just because the Church is so important to many, the process has been very extensive until the big shot. Since the Gjønnes Committee presented its investigation in 2006, with many proposals for changes in the Church, we have had a consultation process called the greatest group work in history. 2 500 hearing bodies were invited to make their views known. Over 85 pst. by the councils and more than half of the municipalities submitted their replies to the hearing. For me, hearing means listening. The fact that many have spent time and the power of speech obliges us to take over the signals that have arrived. The hearing showed that part of the proposal of the Gjønnes Committee did not have such broad support as someone might have thought in advance. Therefore, it was also important to find solutions that drew on the views expressed through the consultation. The conclusion that we have now reached, in a broad agreement with all the parties on the Stortinget, will give us the most important changes to the Constitution in the Church area since 1814. We have agreed on a goal that the appointment of bishops and prosthetics should be moved from the church council to the church organ. This will happen after a democratic reform in the Church. The position of the Bakkevig Committee, ‘Strengthened democracy in the Norwegian Church’, was issued on 13 May 2008. It involves real options, increased use of direct elections and church elections at the same time as public elections, as the agreement states. The suspension has been sent to the hearing, with a deadline of 1 September. If we succeed in the reform of democracy, we get a church that can even more strongly call itself a real people's church. Several of the paragraphs of the Constitution will be amended. Paragraph 2 states that «The Evangelical Lutheran Religion remains the public religion of the State» and that all who profess it must raise their children in the same way. This paragraph is lifted in favour of a new value paragraph, which says that our values are the Christian and humanistic heritage, and that the Constitution must guarantee democracy, the rule of law and human rights. § 4 will continue to say that the King will confess to the Evangelical-Lutherian faith. This applies to the King as a person and institution, but not to the King as the King in the Council of State, i.e. the College of Government. The king's role in the Church shall be continued, and his position in the Church shall be confirmed in the Constitution. But the law should no longer say that the government should be the supreme protector of the Evangelical Lutheran faith, nor that half of its members must belong to the Norwegian Church. Paragraph 16 shall no longer say that the government shall govern the teachings of the Church. This has been largely delegated to other bodies in practice. Now it's going to be a permanent arrangement. Instead, the paragraph would say that the Norwegian Church, an Evangelical Lutheran Church, is to be the Church of Norway's people. Here we find a foundation of the Church, and a decree that there should be a separate church law. At the same time, it is stated that there should be freedom of religion in Norway and that all religious and life views should be supported on the same basis as the Norwegian Church. This is a historical recognition of other beliefs and beliefs. The decree of the Church Council of State will fall away after the prosthetic and episcopal appointments have been moved. This reform does not mean - at least not in this round - a distinction between state and church. What the future brings will determine future magnification and future political majority. The Church shall continue to be enshrined in the Constitution. The Norwegian Church shall regulate its own church law, without the Church becoming its own legal entity. The Church is still part of the State by the existence of State aid, by the fact that the State continues to be responsible for employers for bishops, pros and priests, and by the fact that the ecclesiastical administration remains part of the state administration. The Administrative and Public Administration Act will continue to apply to ecclesiastical bodies. Now we're going to deal with the Bakkevig selection. The church meeting shall discuss it in November. Then there will be changes in the church electoral system in 2009, which can be improved towards the next church elections. Constitutional changes will then be dealt with in Stortinget in 2012. This is a historical church settlement. It gives us a more democratic but also a more independent church. A question has arisen in the debate and in the vote. There are different experimental schemes about the management systems within the Church. I very much agree that the management systems of the Church can and should be reformed. There are certainly better ways to do things. We haven't chosen to go into this right now. We'll deal with it later. The Stat Church message is not about this. I've really quite deliberately wanted not to mix these questions with the big, princely state-church questions. I think they were tough enough to handle whether we should not have discussed the service of the priests at the same time etc. and major organisational reforms. It also states in the agreement that priests should continue to be civil servants. In that case, a future reform involving a change in it must come after the agreement. It's stuck as part of the big deal we've agreed on. That we can look at the possibility of making further attempts, that we can look at the need to have a paragraph that gives us more room for experimentation, to become a debate on a later occasion. I don't reject that, but I think we have to go some extra rounds on it and preferably not mix it with these big, fundamental questions about our church government and our religious policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e448	I'd like to know how the government thinks. I hope that the Council of State can contribute to this without him rushing to a single polemics and seeing other parties and former governments. We know that Norwegian church buildings today have a huge maintenance run. The information service fund contributes 160 million through its return. kr for the benefit of the Norwegian Church. Now we know that the government wants to drain that fund substantially through the sale of fasteners. We also know that the Workers' Party is opposed to the membership quota in the Church. How has the Government planned to secure the Norwegian Church, both seamen's churches and churches in towns and cities, the necessary means of operation and maintenance when the potential of an important contributor is greatly reduced? Where will the Government collect the necessary financial resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e457	It is the municipalities that are responsible for the church buildings. There is no doubt that the most important factor in having good church maintenance is a good community economy. Also in 2009, the local economy will be strengthened - I was going to say historically, but at least significantly. There is no doubt that this four-year period represents one of the strongest growth periods for the local economy ever. In fact, we have opened up the possibility for the OVF to strongly support the church-building project, especially in the case of the slightly older churches. As for what we do with OVF, which is a different matter, we have said that if it weakens the transfers to the Norwegian Church from OVF, it should be compensated so that the Church comes out just as well. Of course, it also includes the means of church refurbishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e464	The representative, Lars Peder Breck, repeated some of the same things as other representatives from the Central Party, both in advance and in time after the conciliation, that, in addition to the three clear, measurable criteria contained in the agreement as a democratic reform, a political and discretionary assessment of whether the Church has achieved sufficient democracy or whether democracy has become good enough. I really just want to use my line to get a confirmation from the Council of State that there are the three components that all parties have agreed to introduce into a democracy reform: real choices, increased use of direct elections and political and church elections together, which are the only criteria on which democratic reform should be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e471	Let me first do something that I did not have time to do in my main post, namely to return the honor that the opposition gave to the process and also to me. I think it was a very good process. And even though there may have been some sharp words from the opposition, I experienced in those meeting rooms where we were discussing solutions, a very constructive and solution-oriented approach. I think we were totally dependent on that to figure out the broad compromise. So I've learned that you shouldn't answer hypothetical questions. I simply believe that we will certainly succeed in the reform of democracy. I think the hypothetical thing about this not showing up is just a error hypothesis. The Church itself has expressed a strong willingness to democratize. It is true, as the representative says, that the only objective criteria, the systemic criteria, are these three. The Bakkevig committee has followed it up, and I have also experienced from the Church's side that this is something you see positive. Then you ask if there is to be a requirement for increased turnout. I don't think it's necessary. Because what I'm sure is that these changes in systems lead to increased voting participation. So the result is going to be solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e480	In the discussion of democracy in the Norwegian Church, some may sometimes feel that it has been created a feeling that the Church itself does not want the members into the Church. I think that the Council of State and I agree that is not right. And that is completely contrary to what the Church itself wants. This has been proven at the latest by the pressure exerted to carry out the faith training reform. The Church itself wants a reform of democracy. That's why I agree with the Council of State that I think it's going to be a high pressure to get it done. But my little concern can lie in: how are we going to put the economy into operation in this democratic reform? Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be no money to implement it? Because it is clear that a successful reform requires an economy that allows people to participate in church elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e487	I think it was a party trap of mine that from this pulpit once said that it would cost what it would cost. I don't think I'm going to try it, it was hanging out with the representative for a very long time. There is no doubt that a democratic reform will cost. Reconciling e.g. in order for church elections to take place in conjunction with public elections, there will be a completely different apparatus from the voting system for the councils that we have today. It may also be appropriate to provide election cards for the various members. In that case, it will contribute to a large cleanup in the membership register, or at least be a guarantee that the Church's membership register is correct. It'll cost money, too. This is something we have to engage in constructive dialogue with the Church Meeting and the Church Council on, in order to find good and practical solutions on how this can be implemented - of course as efficient and resource-efficient as possible, but at the same time in a way that makes this a qualitatively good process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e496	I concluded my post with a specific question to Trond - to the Council of State. It was simply a matter of looking at the proposal that the minority has made, whether it should be open to make concrete experiments in the future, where performance is also being tested. That was the starting point-- that we're opening up a trial paragraph as wide as possible. The council replied that this matter was really too small to be discussed in the broad context. My point is that this is part of the big context. We need to go through a democratization process. Much exciting will happen in the future in the Norwegian Church. We're going to try out different forms of control, etc. Such attempts will be exciting to get done, and we know that many congregations around the country are busy doing it -- at least the Joint Council is busy doing it. My question is, will this be discussed properly and thoroughly? And so if there's no legal obstacles, can we expect that there should be an opening so that that kind of experiment can also be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e508	If the representative Reikvam continues in the jovial first name tone, I can risk being invited to the festival, so I would recommend that you stick to the formal titles. It's a little unclear to me what's in the minority settings. After the wording you can see it as a proposal for something that is not new, because attempts at coordinated management are already taking place. But if we're going to have the same employer for everyone, we either have to make the local officials -- I think that's quite inappropriate -- or maybe make the priests responsible for the local agencies. At least that's per. Today, contrary to the broad agreement that the priests should be civil servants. However, there may be attempts that do not fully shift employers' responsibilities in one way or another, but that involve a stronger coordination of the management and organisation of the Church. I am positive about it and will consider whether there is a need for a trial shelter that gives greater room for it, but I think it is natural to come back to it on another occasion than through comments and suggestions in the Storting in dealing with a matter that is something different and more principleal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e517	It is part of the history of this compromise that it is well received in the organs of the Norwegian Church, but also in other religious and life views in Norway. The Committee has found reason in its work to include a point which was not in the agreement, but which I would venture to claim is in the spirit of the agreement, namely that we are approaching a point where there may be reason to develop an overall religious policy, not to address how religious and life-viewing societies internally manage their faith and their ethics, but to look at how in a society that Norwegian can practically facilitate that we have all the great world religions here, and we have the Human Ethics Association. So my question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State view that he should appropriately follow up the comments of the Committee on which it stands, and come back with contributions to such an overall religious policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e526	There are advantages and disadvantages to the kind of approach in which to collect everything in one bag in a way. The advantage is, of course, that you see things in context. The disadvantage is that it often tends to get a little wretched and superior, while religious policy for people is much more about the concrete, everyday solutions. The Committee to which Dørum belongs has dealt during the spring with many issues that are really part of a major religious policy - it's CRL subject, it's purpose paragraph, there's a lot of questions. So now here we have the question of ceremonium for religious and life-sight societies and the great, superior, fundamental aspects of the Constitution. We don't have per. Today, some plans to present such a comprehensive religious policy document, but it is important to stick to the whole thing in what we do. But I have to say that during the spring I think the committee has actually managed to draw a line between the different issues, and has got a whole of the different proposals, which is a religious policy that I think Norway can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e536	So the chord change is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e541	The most gratifying thing about the decision we are going to make today is that the great work that has once again been done to free the Church from the state and vice versa is not wasted. When we change the Constitution during the next enlargement period, we get a new relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church, and we get closer to equality between the Norwegian Church and other churches in our country. The decision we have to make today is the only thing that is politically possible. The Council of State deserves the praise he has received for finding this balance point along with all the parties. And everyone says they're satisfied with the compromise. But that's now the way with what's politically possible, that it's rarely what someone really wants. It is also true in this case. And the representative Lars Peder Breck well announced that it might be more demanding to hold on to the consensus when you get to the next period and will take some of the concrete steps. Even I believe that time should be overdue to take the step fully and give the Church the full responsibility for itself. I don't share the concern that many people have that it could give us a tight darker church. To leave the administration of the Church through bishopial appointments to politicians who are elected with a focus on completely different matters than church matters is hardly any guarantee that the Church will be neither one nor the other. Besides, I believe that it is those who are concerned that the Church should be an open and inclusive people's church, who must take responsibility for that. And they must take that responsibility as members of the Church. Even I belong to the Methodist Church. It has no policy to guard the ceiling height, but the ceiling height has not been lowered for that reason. It is as before--a liberal, inclusive church with a social commitment, although, of course, it is also priests in the church that, in the eyes of many, will qualify for gloomy terms. Perhaps this is related to the fact that this church, unlike the Norwegian Church, is part of a large international church, but I think it is primarily because its own active members protect the integrity and peculiarity of its church. I am, as I said, happy to be able to vote in favour of the proposals on which there is agreement, although it becomes a bit like an EEA agreement in relation to our relationship with Europe: a solution no one really wants, but that was the only political possibility. It gave us 80 pst. membership and no participation, now the Church gets 80 pst. autonomy, but not autonomy. We get to bet that this solution, unlike the EEA, really becomes a short-term intermediate station on the way to the only solution possible in our time - a church with the full and complete responsibility for itself, equality between all churches and faiths and a state anchored in a basis of values and not a particular direction of faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e554	The size of the population today demonstrates its ability to gather on a major and important reform. When the Christian People's Party took the initiative at the beginning of this great age to bring together all the parliamentary leaders to discuss how we could achieve such an agreement, it was for two reasons: a reform of a 400-500-year-old church system requires long-term and sustainability beyond short-term party interests and elections - and consensus across position and opposition is absolutely necessary to ensure a constitutional majority. At the bottom of the current treatment is an agreement that obligates all batches over the next landfill period. Like others, I give homage to those who contributed, not least the minister of the church and the parties that have moved most in relation to their primary positions. The honor also goes to our former Minister of the Church, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who reduced the Gjønnes Committee and set this process in motion. There are many problematic features of today’s church system. That a political body such as the Government has the right to govern the appointment of leaders, teachings and arrangements of a religious society is inherently unsustainable on the basis of principles of freedom of religion and belief. If this right is practiced with political activism without respect for the Church, it becomes inconvenient. It soon leaves the impression that the Norwegian Church is a state budget in line with the Railway Agency and State Power. The most important difference is then, paradoxically, that, unlike the Church of State, State power has been released many years ago. A full distinction is essentially the solution that best resolves in this paradox. But a complete distinction does not take into account the historical situation we have in the relationship between Church and people in Norway. That's why it's not a good solution. I am pleased that today the whole Storing is gathering around a solution that respects both human rights and historical realities. We agree to wind up the state church regime through the Church Council. The Norwegian Church implements its democratic reform and is given responsibility for appointing its leaders, deciding on its learning issues and determining its arrangements. The Church is released, but retains its anchor in the Constitution and its financial instruments. The state is no longer to have a state religion, but the basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage. The church gets to be a church, and the state gets to be a state. However, the State shall not be state in a valuable vacuum. We confirm the long lines of our cultural tradition and our legal state. The Christian People's Party is pleased to have fulfilled all the central demands of our National Assembly for a church reform. We're going to follow the further process closely. Consensus on the Constitutional Law does not necessarily mean agreement on the new church law to come. There should be a framework law that, in line with the intention of the Constitutional Changes, leaves to the Norwegian Church to govern itself. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that. Much has been said about the preconditions for the settlement relating to the Church's own democratic reform. I am absolutely sure that these prerequisites will be fulfilled, simply because the church bodies themselves have established that such a reform is something the Church itself wants. The reform is on fire, and only the Church itself can trace it off. It's not going to happen. The foundation law of the Norwegian Church is expressed in such a way that the Evangelical Lutheran Church remains the Church of Norway and is supported as such by the State. This is similar to the Danish model of basic law anchoring. However, contrary to what is happening in Denmark, the new Norwegian Constitutional Law will add to the support of other religious and life-seeking communities in the same way. In this way, the equivalency of other religious and life-viewing societies is recognised into the Constitution for the first time. It's also historical, but is hardly noticed in the review of the deal. The Constitution came into existence at a time when the law was severely penalised by extraterritorial activities. There is a historical line from the persecution of Hans Nielsen Hauge and the so-called dissenters and to the new constitutional provision which obliges the State to support other religious and life-view societies on the «just line». With this constitutional provision, it is natural to follow up on a review of the law on religious societies, in order to ensure that the principle of the Constitution is also followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e576	This ageing period began quite dramatically with caricature struggle and abuse of religion in an attempt to increase the level of conflict between people. In international politics, religion plays an increasingly important role, and having an understanding and a knowledge of the faith of others and their own can be crucial to seeing how to act yourself. Some people put a kind of similarity between religion and conflict, and show that in a world where we travel more and where our country becomes more and more diverse, references to our Christian tradition and the Christian identity of our country can create conflict. As a result, some people believe that we should distance the state's relationship with Norway's history, namely our Christian identity. I am the integration political spokesman for the Centre Party, and through it I have had to reflect on the meeting between the historical Norway and the Norway we are now. Is it so that, in the time we're in now, we should draw religion more out of the public space-- or is it the opposite? Is it that what is common value base in our history, should now be downplayed -- or is it more important now than before that we have an awareness of our value foundation? In the past, I was in Paris discussing the riots that took place, where mainly minority youth in the suburbs roamed and set fire to cars every night. What struck me was that it is in that country in Europe that is best known for trying to erase the place of religion by law, that the conflicts are greatest. Secular France is not a country that we should have as a model, whose aim is to create a community between people. It is not from the new population groups that have come to Norway to cry out to change the state church system has been strong. No, the demand comes from the power of the Church and from those who want a secular society - the Human-Ethical Federation. Those who push minorities in Norway to make Norway more secular have a bad case, because there is no strong call to remove religion from public space. I lost the fight in my own party in relation to today's case. When we're going to change the relationship between state and church, an enormous reform, as we lay the foundation for, we have to reflect on what signals it sends, also beyond the Church's woe and well. I don't think, in the time we're in, that the place of religion should become less important, rather on the contrary. To meet the faith of others and new citizens, I think it is important to have security around your own history and your own anchoring. I will end by saying that I am pleased that in Norway we have a royal house that, through its conduct, both in word and action, has proved to be concerned with diversity. I think most of them are proud of our royal house. The fact that the King himself, with the profile he has, will still have a clear anchor in the Christian faith also in the Constitution delights me. There is no contrast between anchoring and openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e593	The case today shows that it is possible to find broad settlements in important cases. The political agreement between the seven parties in Stortinget on how to regulate the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church in the future has gained broad support among the population in general and in the different religious and life views in particular. The Church is characterized by a long tradition among the Norwegian population. There have been state churches in Norway since the Reformation in Denmark-Norway in 1537. Then the Church became evangelical and Lutheran. The church has historically meant a lot to people, and it still does. In the case of major roadblocks in life, the Church is central; it is at baptism, confirmation, wedding or funeral. But also in tragic events in the local communities or major national concerns, it is known that the Church is there. The priests make themselves available, and the church room opens. Then everyone is welcome, regardless of belief or view of life. The aim of the Workers' Party is to maintain a church that is open, inclusive, and that has room for everyone. It's important that the Church relates to the society it's part of. For us, it is important that those who do not feel that the Church cares for their needs for the big brand days of life or grief have an alternative. We live in a society that's ever changing. Today it is approx. 400,000 members of religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church. Other Christian religious communities are clearly the largest, while the Human-Ethical League and Islam are the largest non-Christian religious and life-view societies outside the Norwegian Church. For the Workers' Party, it is important that everyone should feel safe, whether Muslims or Buddhists. The right to freedom of religion is fundamental and inviolable to the Workers' Party. There is a general lack of life-vision neutral seremony around Norway. We who are members of the Church of State have beautiful seremonium for the important days of life. It will be a strength for the people's Church that we can offer life-vision neutral serums of beautiful design to the others as well. We want to strengthen the local churches' place with the inhabitants. With its own democratic reform in the Church, local communities should feel more involved in influencing the shape of the local church. This is a new framework for the electoral system and internal organisation. It is no secret that in the Workers' Party there has been a different view of the Church's connection with the State. The Labour Party has had a broad and important debate on an important issue over a long period of time. I believe that with this agreement we take good care of the different views.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e608	Historically or not -- I was kicked off the sideline, so to me it's historic. I'm standing here for the first time. This is a very important issue for the further development of the relationship between the State, the Church and the other religious communities we have in Norway. The role of tradition, culture and religion in society is a fundamental part of the Norwegian Church. This majority position on a law-enforced church has taken this seriously and is bringing about a modernisation and adapted change, which is in line with the time we live in. The right is satisfied with the implementation of a democratic reform in order to strengthen the democratic legitimacy and anchoring of the Church's organs. Enhancing the roll-out of the 2009 Joint Council elections is one of the areas of action - how it has been thoroughly discussed. I know that a large part of the population is thought to be very religious in order to be a candidate for the Council of Churches, and they are therefore not interested in quieting, nor in voting. But the Church is a complex people's church, and it is important that the councils, which are closest to the inhabitants, have different qualities, as they deal with matters that affect the area of activity of the Church, including the municipality's offerings to the inhabitants. It says in the investigation that local activities are the lifeblood of the Church. I would like to stress that it is glued to many, both in terms of care and cultural activities. In 2005, Elverum was a sample municipality. The council was elected at the same time and in the same place as the council. This resulted in 9.2 p.m. participation in elections. It's twice as much as in the country. In Oslo, there was only 1.5 pst. If we are to continue to have the Norwegian Church as both a religious community and a church of the people, it is important that communication is improved and electoral participation increased. Freshly in memory, I have the industrious members of the River Valley, a small town far up in the Engerdal, who washed and scrubbed their church in the spirit of virtue. That's great! But then the rickshaw came and reported them. We can't have it like that! The Gender Committee highlights the need for a cultural heritage selection, a competence centre for the Norwegian Church. The Riksantik product agrees, and so is the Right. Børge Burnde in his time established a fire safety guard in the stave churches - a step in the right direction. Right look at St.meld. No 17 as a document to start a work for the future, not only for the Norwegian Church, but for the cultural heritage and other religious and life views in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e627	It is a historic day for the representative, but also a historic one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e630	With the President's permission, I would like to begin by extending a flower to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, which, with an unusual sense of style, has organized the Grand Duchy's work plan so that this matter is dealt with on Friday 13th. First of all, it shows that we have a presidency that is not superstitious, and secondly, we have put this matter together with one more thing on today's map, and it's called "Interplay." A rise for rhythmic music’. If you didn't know better, you'd think the Storting was in the middle of case no. 2 a long time ago. It happens that the Storting as a legislator is accused of having it busy and working too fast - sometimes not without reason. In this case, the Stortinget cannot be accused of having had a hurry, for this matter the Stortinget has relied on the page before it happened, already when it was called the National Assembly, at Eidsvoll. The issue of reforms in the relationship between state and church has been more or less permanent on the agenda for the last 150 years. This is why it is absolutely an event when it has succeeded in bringing together all the big parties about the crucial step, namely to remove the last remainder of the empire from Norway’s constitution. It is often produced in such a way that the state church system should be the most democratic system in the world. The truth is, this is the least democratic part of Norway's constitution, and it's been all along. When you say that the condition that the Norwegian Church can govern itself is that it becomes more democratic, it's a cross of thought, because some less democratic system than the one we have per. Today, it is not possible to imagine. It is true that there is a greater turnout in decision-making than in a council election. In return, major elections have nothing to do with the church administration, for under the Constitution, the Stortinget is not assigned any function to the church administration. These are the King and the King's advisers. The Minister of the Church in Norway is not elected by either 1, 2, 3, 4 or 70 pst. by the voters. The Minister of the Church of Norway has been appointed by one person, namely by the Prime Minister - noted in brackets - at the very moment by a Prime Minister who, under the Constitutional Law, is not qualified to participate in the treatment of church affairs at all. A smaller democratic church system is very difficult to imagine. For this reason, any reform will be per year. definition is a step forward in terms of democracy. The last time the Storting had a thorough review of the relationship between state and church, was in the 1970s - that is, one generation ago. At the time it was the position of the Sivertsen Committee that was at stake, and the Stortinget also managed at the time to gather to a broad cross-political consensus. But it happened under one very clear premise, namely that you should not touch a dime at the Constitutional Framework. On the other hand, within this framework, we were to go as far as possible towards delegating the church board to our own elected church body. It has been shown to work perfectly well, and all the predictions you had at the time that this would lead to a narrow church have been made thoroughly to shame. It is gratifying that a unanimous increase is in line with the recommendation of 18 out of 20 members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, namely that the time has now come to bring down the framework. There is a fundamental difference between the delegation of power and that of its own competence and that of the delegation of power may be revoked at any time. When the Storting in the next period has removed the framework, there is no way back. That's what's historic!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e650	In this case, one in the Labour Party and in all the other parties has debated loudly and thoroughly - internally at least. There is a distinction between the lots in this case and there is not least an internal distinction between the lots. Therefore, one should be commended for having obtained a cross-political settlement. It is good that there is cross-political agreement in such a big and important matter, where many feel so much. And then I have to admit-- otherwise I would lie-- that even I would wish we had got the total divorce here today. We are not there today, but I still feel that we are on our way. I have to say I reacted when the representative Battle Violence Vedum of the Center Party used France as an example of how bad it can be if a living in secular societies. I agree that religion and faith lead to much misery in the world, but I want to make the representative Battle Violence Vedum aware that the cause of the unrest in France was unemployment, poverty, need, poor housing and other things. It had nothing to say if one was Muslim, humane, or atheist for that matter. As a humaneist, as I am -- and I have to flag that in the Workers' Party -- it's now that we're experiencing that we've come a bit on the way, but I would still wish we had managed to get the full distinction. Now I'm saying this, which I didn't intend to say to the representative Battle Violence Vedum: we who are humaneists don't lead minorities in front of us. I, as a humaneist, am part of this state, and I want the state to believe that I am part of the state. The state will mirror the society that you have, show the diversity, cultivate it, and include it. On a fundamental basis – and not on what I feel – I believe that we should have a distinction. But I still think, as I have said, that we have come a little bit on the way. Then I want to say to those in the state church -- because that's not what I belong to, and I don't have the opportunity to vote on what you should think in the state church community -- that now it's said that one should have more democracy, one should take the people's church, which the representative Dørum and very many in the Workers' Party are really happy about. Now a Church gives a tremendous amount of power, so now the Church has to take that power and show those who are happy in the Church and want to keep it, that there is room to take care of all this that we are happy with, while once in the future we don't have to be associated with the Church of the State. I don't want to be honest if I say I'm really happy today, but I'm glad we're here for a while. I think this is the rock you're putting on so that once in the future we'll be able to get to where I want to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e665	There are many who have expressed joy over the great consensus today to give the Norwegian Church greater autonomy. That's why. There is also reason to commend both the Government with the Prime Minister of the Church and all party leaders for having shown the will and ability to reach an agreement. This consensus also confirms some of the positions, I think, which the Norwegian Church has, not only in the people, but also in the political environment. That's very good. For we need in our fragmented time, I think, more than ever such an institution that glues people, leaders and royal houses together, whether it's joy or sorrow in the country, festivals and events, accidents or disasters. What do we know about what will come? The first kings who started Christianity saw also the importance of faith and religion for the construction of the nation. Then it's important that this broad consensus also seems to reflect a holistic view of what the Church is, that it is a religious community and not the religious life of the state. The fact that the Norwegian Church is a religious community means, as it defines it itself, that it should be a confessing, mind-blowing, ministering and open people's church. It's solid. In this context, we are very pleased that the Constitution will in the future have a value paragraph that underlines our country's continuing connection to this Christian cultural heritage. There was almost a hallelujah mood here, but there must also be the opportunity to be a little upset at the same time, or at least a little impatient that in this round you have kept on a few important points. One is to agree to abolish the provisions of the Basic Law on Church Government specifically laid down in Section 16 and aims to transfer authority to church bodies for appointment. But at the same time, you do not agree to give the Norwegian Church the status of a legal entity. This creates a serious dilemma. Thus, it seems as if the Norwegian Church is left behind in a legal void. So the Church still has to be under the state in a legal sense, i.e. subject to State law where no other explicit statement has been made. Not least, the church bodies themselves have been concerned about this, because it deals with, among other things. to ensure freedom of belief also for the Church. We talk about freedom of belief for all other societies, but forget that this must also apply to the greatest of them. If the Church is to be made independent, it must also include this, and I hope that the Church will be secured as its own legal entity in the further process. The second point I hope is a good solution to, concerns the church funds, and especially the OVF. We have a debate on this. It is to hope that you will remember to refrain from the proposed disposal of the funds, and to facilitate that the Norwegian Church can retain this fund as part of its equity. So it is joy today over the consensus that the Church is really grown and mature enough to be master of its own house, but then it must also result from this that it is empowered in a legal sense, and that it will retain the inheritance intended for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e679	In the course of the debate, many have pointed out that a historic decision is being made here today on a more loose relationship between state and church, and so is it. For us in the Central Party, there has also been a long way to today's debate. We have been involved in the state-church debate both in advance of and after the Gjønnes Committee's setting. We established the National Church Forum, where our own depositor Inger S. Enger was one of the initiators together with Gunnar Stålsett. By decision both in the party's national government and at the national meeting, the Central Party has chiseled out its claims for a renewed church system within the framework of a continued constitutional state church. Although the Church of State was established in another historical context, the upsurge around, for example, shows that it has been established in a different historical context. baptism, confirmation, marriages and funerals that this church system has an important significance and relevance in today's society. The fact that today's church system still has a strong uprising in the population was also clearly expressed in the opinions of the hearing on the position of the Gjønnes Committee, with a total of 57 pst. by the municipalities and the local church councils wanted the Norwegian Church to be continued as a state church. For me, who comes from Uppland and Hedmark diocese, there is no doubt that the traditions that our diocese has had have been an absolute strength in the Church of the People. Through the voice and inclusive attitude of our bishops, the Church has been a meeting point for people. Bishops such as Kristian Schjelderup, Georg Hille, Rosemarie Köhn and now Solveig Fiske have all participated in giving us from the Hamar diocese an identity in the Norwegian Church. But this identity is not all churchgoers in other dioceses who have wanted to be welcomed. That is precisely why I believe that the Church of Norway has proved robust, but at the same time flexible in its function as an expression of our value anchoring and the function of the Church of Norway as a collective religious community. Now that we're going into a new era for the Norwegian Church, it's not with anxiety and trembling that I'm voting for today for a more loose relationship between state and church. I am confident that the position of the Bakkevig Committee and the further process of democracy will provide a good basis for the further development of the Church. For the Center Party, it's hoping that the commitment to an inclusive people's church will also be great in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e690	The debate so far has shown that we have quite different perceptions of what the Stortinge will adopt in three to four years' time. There's obviously a different view of this. What's absolutely clear is that if, or i.e. When the Storting--for that I expect the Storting to do in three years' time--these Constitutional Changes are passed, the Constitutional Bonds between the State and the Church are gone. It's clear. Then we no longer have any constitutional ties between the state and the church. What is then crucial is what the Stortinge in three or four years' time is doing in relation to the church law. So the Stortinget can try to connect new ties between state and church, but I don't think that's politically possible. I don't think it's politically possible in three or four years to connect. I can see that what's happening now, and what's going to happen in three or four years, is that today's form of state church is going to be gone. It is the consequences of this debate and the constitutional proposals to be promoted later. But what is crucial is the content of the law to be adopted. Then we're left with a value paragraph and a section 16. Section 16 simply means that the Church must be supported. It doesn't say anything about the size of the support. I often wonder that the Church wants to make itself dependent on a support from the Stortinget, from the state. It is the Church itself that will adopt its own activity in the future, and then it is the other that will fund the activity. This must in the longer term lead to the Church itself also having to take responsibility for its own economy. It becomes the consequence when you have a church that itself determines its own activity and what it is going to do, and there are others who are going to fund it. To make himself dependent on it, I don't think the Church in the longer term will see itself served with. So Section 16 and exactly what goes on in the economy, probably will also be a transitional arrangement. As far as the value paragraph is concerned, I see the whole of the Basic Law as a coherent value paragraph. There is not one paragraph of the Basic Law that is not a value paragraph. Each paragraph of the Basic Law is a value paragraph. I think it's important to underline that. So a little comment on Trygve Battle Force Vedum's fear that it will now end that religion will have a place in the open room. He cited France as an example. Let me stress that I do not see the Church of State and the Church as any guarantor that we should have debates in the open space of religion. I am absolutely sure that those debates will continue. Both the different religious communities and the different religions want that kind of debate. As politicians, we want to do the same. So I feel confident that religion will still have a wide space in the open room and be the basis for discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e701	I'm not going to go up any big debate because of the secular state of France. I just have to make a little comment to the representative Sund anyway, when she was so clear to me instead. If you look at the conflict in France, it was quite complex. There was no doubt that there was a lack of work, a lack of hope, poor living conditions and a social marginalisation. But one of the things that really helped to ignite the spark was that you weren't allowed to carry religious symbols in France - you weren't allowed to wear shawl at work, you couldn't raise religion, you had identity, and you had a peculiarity, in the public space. It was completely suppressed. So it was one of the most important causes of the explosions that we've seen there, along with a number of other things. I think that if you think that just removing everything that has to do with religious identity and symbolism from the public space, the conflicts are gone. That's where I think you're wrong. I think it's the exact opposite, that you raise them up, because it's such an important part of the individual's peculiarity. Then I have a line for Reikvam. He said earlier in the debate today that one of the great things about having more loose ties between state and church is that the Church could be more critical of power. If you look at the Church's history in the last few years, you can see that there are people who have been critical of power, it has just been the Church within today's system. We saw it in the last period in relation to the Iraq war. We see it during this period, among other things. in relation to refugee policy. We see it in environmental policy. The church is very free. And the most free and speaking voices we've ever had are, among other things, Bishops and other figures within the Church today. Then there have been some strong obstacles within today's system for bishops and other spokespersons of the Church to be critical of power, then it must be based on theory and not on reality, when you look at the public vocabulary that we have. So I think it's a good thing for a society that religion is given a central and good place, and I think that is best ensured through a state church system and the liberal practice around it. But I lost in my own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e712	The representative, Rikvam, gave a useful reminder. He said that we strictly decide nothing. That is not quite accurate, because we decide to attach the matter to the protocol. That's a kind of decision, too. But the useful reminder is that all the changes in the Constitution that are at the heart of the matter will last until later. That is why I am not going to go into any of the individual wordings of the Constitutional Paragraphs, because it is a good opportunity to do so when they are to be adopted by the Stortinget in due course, and that is where the debate belongs. But I feel the need to clarify one thing. When talking about the ties between state and church, it is necessary to clarify what you mean. The change that happens when the Storting decides to remove today's constitutional framework, is that the ties between the executive state power and the Norwegian church are definitely cut. After that time, the executive government, i.e. The King of the Basic Law's languages, in the political reality of the government, have no governing powers whatsoever in relation to the Norwegian Church. That's what's basically important. What ties exist between the legislative state power, that is, the Storting, and the Norwegian Church and other religious communities, that is basically another question. And whether the Storting as a legislator is to give two different laws, one framework law for the Norwegian Church and one law on religious and life-view societies in general, that is a purely appropriate question. There is nothing to prevent the Storting as a legislator from finding that it makes sense to merge the two laws and comply with the provisions specifically relating to the position of the Church of Norway as a public church within a common law on religious communities. The Storting is perfectly free to do. But the historically important thing is that the ties between the executive power and one particular religion are once and for all cut, and I don't think it's even conceivable that in the future someone will come up with the idea of trying to reconnect such bonds. That's the historical element in this, and there's reason to rejoice over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e725	At the bottom of such a long debate, there may be reason to recall that we are not at the end of the road or in the goal through the setting of this big message. It's now the work starts. We have a comprehensive work ahead of us with the Bakkevig Committee setting. We must carry out major democratic reforms, and in dialogue with the Church we must also find out how, for example. future pros and bishops shall be appointed. There's a lot left. The representative of the Wage is right that with this we abolish the Church Council of State and thus this body's hand over the Church. The question is, however, how much change there is in relation to the current situation, because in practice very much of this has already been spent on other bodies. All learning issues are addressed, for example: now in organs other than those of the King of State Council. After all, it has been no longer than in Gudmund Hernes ’ day that both liturgy and hymns were set up in the State Council Office. I even believe that the various clothes were dealt with politically in the department. This is too long a story. Even the appointment of bishops and pros, and in particular bishops, is due to different nomination processes, which make the King in the Council of State have a relatively limited mandate in practice with regard to whom you can look as new bishops, even some who believe that this nomination process almost binds the King in the Council of State to take the individual who has received the most votes in the preceding process. Yes, it's an important principle distinction that's being made, but no, it's not a big difference with what's currently for all practical purposes is practice. That also means, I think, that this transition is going to be very straightforward. I think the Church is ready for it. I think the political system is ready for it. I think the Norwegian community is ready for it. I think what will be the key to this going well is that throughout the process we can assure the Norwegian people that the church they're happy with, the broad, open church that doesn't have an A and B membership, but that's open and inclusive for everyone, actually also consists of new governance systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e734	This is an important day. It's a historic decision that's being made today, and from a liberal's point of view, it's a big step in the right direction. I just want to make some comments, especially to the central part posts here in the hall. I'm in the Old Town Congregation Council, in Old Oslo. We make elections at the same time as big shots. That doesn't mean I feel like I have the big, popular vote in the Old Town behind me for my participation in the Council. I think it was about. 20 people who participated, compared with 19 last time. That doesn't mean that you're carried by the masses into your local position, sail if you've actually chosen the grips that have worked well somewhere else. I think that if you're really going to get a lot of commitment around the church elections, the church elections are going to mean something. Then the power of the Church is really to be distributed by ecclesiastical elections. I don't think people are stupid. I think popular participation is about popular mobilization related to things people are busy about. If people don't feel that this means something, they don't go into the room that says "Council of Humanities" on. So our challenge in the future is not just to make technical solutions. It is also to bring power back to the Church, and power shall appear through the Church. Yes then, we have had bishops who have said things about both asylum and the environment, but feeling that you have a church that really participates in the public debates, and that does it without being anxious for its rulers, I feel it's still a little bit more. And I want to have a church that participates in the public debate. I want to have a church that has opinions. I want to have a church that actually dares to be in difficult debates and say something. I actually think that the debate we had on Wednesday in this room would have been much better if we had had an active church that had participated in the debate, instead of having grass rotations, which got an outlet that many of us from this pulpit took a distance from. I'd rather be active in the Church that participates, and that has opinions about important processes. I think it's tightening up the debate. It does it better, and it gets everything on the table in important things that are about the things that the Church is going to care about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e745	No pay has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e748	I will not at the tame of the debate disturb the rhythmic music, but I must only be allowed to make a slight clarification to the Council of State. I don't think we disagree that the practical difference is modest, but there's once again a fundamental fundamental and constitutional difference between exercising delegated authority and exercising its own authority, and the difference is right where I pointed out in my post: one can be withdrawn, the other cannot be withdrawn. And it's pretty important that we stick. Let me conclude again with the pleasure of expressing that the Norwegian political decision-making system is able to come to an agreement on such an important matter as this. I have reminded you several times in the Chamber in recent years that the Swedes have managed to do so. I do not know if that is what has been decisive, but it is the strongest driving force in Norway: under no circumstances should we be worse than the Swedes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e757	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.1. [[See page 3725]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e773	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e782	The government's big message about rhythmic music gives recognition to music singers who for a long time were considered less important. There are many reasons for the positive development of the rhythmic field over the past three to four decades. The political and cultural climate change that took place in the 1970s paved the way for cultural expressions that belonged to groups that had not at all had the power of definition in society so far. It was the young people, the rebels, and the outsiders. There were people from the towns and cities of the north and the south who suddenly saw their own situation in the light of international flows, who also set the agenda for politics and cultural life here to land. I belonged to the first generation of music students who, with a rather lack of musical experience in their luggage, applied for higher music education. Until then, the admission to music studies at academic institutions had required background and knowledge of Western art music. Many of us who came from rural and smaller places had never had the opportunity to train in art music, or classical music, which was the usual term. We had a musical reference frame in rock, pop, jazz and show--music expression that just didn't fit completely into the academy. It was music for a new generation, music that interpreted our lives and gave us a different platform for music science studies. While the higher music educational institutions have since included new singers, parallel developments have taken place in other learning venues. Both music schools, rock clubs and various non-formalised forms of training have helped to improve the quality of the rhythmic field. Especially happy is the fact that in recent years more prominent female performers have come within the rhythmic genres - forms of music that are improperly worded to be quite humanly dominated. A plethora of meeting places between practitioners and the audience, including: a strong emergence of music festivals, has strengthened our commitment and interest in rhythmic music, heightened our audience's expectations of great musical experiences, and given us more capable musicians. It's no coincidence that it's just this government that comes with a big message about rhythmic music. The great promise in the field of culture over the last three years has significantly increased support for the rhythmic music genres. During this period, the appropriations for the Ministry of Culture's budget for jazz, rock, folk music and related music have increased by over 80 pst. There is an increase that has benefited the entire field, from grants to amateur culture and voluntary music life to a marked strengthening of the entire professional field. The rhythmic music environments consist of actors who live in different parts of the country and who work throughout the country. It is also a music area that is internationally oriented and characterised by contact and cooperation across environments, regions and borders. The government in the Storing Message stresses that interaction within the rhythmic field should be strengthened, for example. through the construction of both national and regional rock, pop, jazz and folk music centres. The Storting Communication reviews the public instrument for rhythmic music and proposes a transformation that sees the various subsidies more closely in the context. A key point is to reduce administration, so that as much resources as possible go to artistic activities. The allocation based on professional artistic discretion must be thorough and pay attention to the protection of applicants against arbitrary and discriminatory practices. In its comments on the message, the Committee underlined the importance of decisions based on the exercise of discretion based on the decentralisation and dissemination of power. In the proposed structure, this would mean that discretionary selections and advice must be composed in such a way as to ensure good geographical representation and diversity of cultural competences. I'm glad that a group committee has joined the main features of the message, in line with a majority of the hearing bodies that have spoken out. But I have to be surprised that once again, and in full seriousness, the Progress Party is calling for voluntary music life and amateurs who need grant schemes, not the professional ones. We believe it is possible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. This government has consistently, both in words and in appropriations, strengthened cultural life in peak and breadth. It is not without reason that the staging message on rhythmic music is called Interaction. This field may be more than anything marked by close ties between professional, semi-professional and recreational music professionals. The instrument must also be arranged. If, on the other hand, the model of the Progress Party was to be realized, it would simply tear the legs under the good interaction that mutually enriches the different levels and environments of the rhythmic field. The paper on rhythmic music mentions many of the most important tasks for this area of music for years to come. It describes how a public instrument can contribute to the development of good infrastructure in the field and strengthen both top and width. From an international and multicultural perspective, rhythmic musicians are very important for the development of an exciting, rich and diverse music life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e803	The progress party thinks it is exciting with this message. But I don't know-- I like to treat groceries with some respect. I do not think in any way that this message has received the respect it deserves. It's probably the first time in history -- it's a little bit of a historical sus -- that you put forward a message about pop and rock and blues and stuff. That's why we should have more time to deal with it. There has been no other than a written hearing and the notification is based on an interim report from the Løken Committee. I would certainly have been more comfortable at least to have had the opportunity to read the entire report of the Løken Committee, which takes care of the grant schemes for the entire cultural field. In addition, I think it would have been very ok, since this is the first message about the rhythmic field, that we had actually had a consultation with stakeholders in the industry. I therefore believe, with all due respect for the rapporteur, that this has become a left-hand job, partly because the committee has also had many other major issues that are very important. Unfortunately, I have too little time as a magnificent representative during the summer. But when that is said, I have made some considerations about the message. I want to ask the Council of State, and I actually hope that I get an answer, as to why he has not included electronic music in the rhythmic field. All of which, for example: Has heard Klaus Schulze, knows that this is so definitely rhythmic and should have been here. In addition, if you choose not to bring it here, the electronic music falls between all the chairs in the music sector. Both the Councils of State and I remember how we prioritised different electronic organisations in the budgetary procedure during the previous period. I also know how we put together the bet on NOTAM as an offer in the capital. I should therefore like the Council of State to assure me that this sector also includes electronic music. So I'm going to brag a little bit of the council-- it's not usually that I do it at all. It is so great that pop and rock are now included in the warmth of the established field after many years of alienation and misery. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Too many have viewed this field as something commercial, and thus almost something dirty that it is not worth making any thoughts about. The Progress Party supports the main objectives of the rhythmic field, both in the field of concert offerings across the country, to have good access to recorded music, although this is hardly the big problem in Norway anymore, and not least to develop the nutritional potential of rhythmic music. Five minutes is not very land time. I could say very nicely about everything I support in this big message, but I choose to take the law on black exchange tickets. Both the government councils and the government parties indicate that this law has had a positive effect, but it probably depends a little on the eyes that see and where you look. The fact that one has stopped trading in black stock exchanges and, to the extent that one of the operators has also been charged with ticket sales on FINN.no bot does little to help when one moves the trade to other websites. Those who really want tickets to a concert can just write the name of the artist in the Google window plus tickets, and then it shows up offers in search and cabin, and many have a significant price quote. I think the government parties think that's how the law should work. The Progress Party believes that other instruments, as we outlined in relation to the treatment of the law, for example: to limit the number of tickets per ticket. the person or seller of tickets, as in other countries, should be a more effective means of stopping the ‘exchange’ of tickets. I hope that the Council of State will evaluate this ban and possibly come back to Stortinget with other instruments. In conclusion, I'm sure you've noticed that the Progress Party is the only party that stands out from the Committee's comment that specifically mentions high sound levels at concerts. We have chosen to stand outside as you can buy earplugs at most of the modern music venues if you think the sound level is too high. As my colleague in the Progress Party who sits on the committee with me, it said: If it is too loud, you are too old.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e829	The Collaboration Storing Message. A rise for rhythmic music is a fine and transparent representation of the rhythmic field, a field that has sprung out of jazz, rock and folk music - without having to read it in any narrow way. The message gives as far as I can see, good status and raises the main issues in what we are going to do in the future. With the exception of well-known ideological, introductory phrases and a few points where in other contexts we are able to separate layers, I would say that this is a message that we can broadly subscribe to and use as a good starting point for further policy-making in this area. It's a comprehensive message. I expect that we'll come back to a series of issues and themes as these are put out in life. The rhythmic field of music has built a good common platform through a rare genre-wide collaboration - then I think first and foremost within the organisations. This basis is now underpinned by the Government. Many of the proposals that emerge follow up earlier discussions and proposals, including proposals that have been the themes of this house. This is a wise policy that the Right would like to join. We also note that there is a broad consensus on the content of the message, both inside and outside this house. The most concrete proposals are largely linked to the sub-examination by the Løken Committee on the rhythmic field. After all, we've got the entire onion selection. For my own part, I have not been given the opportunity to get into the details of it. That's why we've put in a little reservation to see everything in context until we get to crossroads later in this context. I think it seems to me that some of the proposals made by the Løken Committee in this field are making a good deal of sense - perhaps in particular the coordination of the grant schemes for larger and more open genre-wide support schemes, the phonogram scheme, the organiser system and the music system. The singers in the rhythmic field are just impressed by being in a development where the singer-overtaking has often been eye-catching and driving for a very constructive process. This makes the rhythmic field collectively appear to be a very dynamic and creative field. The onion committee’s proposal on genre-wide schemes well fits in with the trend we see. So I guess there's a good reason to try it in this direction. I understand that the ministry has wanted to hold a joint grip on the singers and through it build up under the consensus that now seems to be strong and very constructive. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we as a nation, and then more from a cultural heritage perspective, have a special responsibility for folk music. This could perhaps have been better elaborated or more clearly pointed out, either through a broader treatment or by clearly saying that you're not going into that perspective, to get back to it in other contexts. We have a special responsibility for folk music in that context, and I hope that by the budget and by other crossroads we can make that very perspective visible. We also support the efforts and coordination that are intended to be made abroad, where the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norwegian Music Information and Music Export Norway are seen in the context, and will point out that this is of course important also in relation to the business perspective in this area. So I have noticed that one comes back to this that government funds should be given to applicants only through one scheme. This appears in several contexts, and it is easy to see what is the background and the argument for it. But I would like to point out that it is a reflection that this can also weaken the flexibility of the system and contribute to a type of blockage that you otherwise work against. But the sum sum: the message gives good signals. The feedback we get tells of a collective music environment that positively awaits the follow-up, and the Right will actively contribute to a constructive policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e850	This is a historical report. I want to commend the Council of State for the message, and for the process that has been taking place along the way. I have not heard anything but that the entire music environment is very pleased with the processes that have been carried out in front of this message. You're very happy. The most important task of cultural policy is to facilitate a diversity of cultural offerings, artistic expressions and participation in an active cultural life. Creative art contributes to the renewal and development of societies and individuals through the dissemination of the diversity of art experiences and cultural experiences. Access to artistic and cultural experiences and the ability to express itself through art and culture shall not depend on residence or social divides. An offensive public commitment is necessary to ensure breadth and diversity. In the last decades, Norwegian music has developed a great variety of expressions within different genres. Increases in breadth and quality have provided new opportunities for creating and producing music. The dissemination venues for music are increasingly diverse, and there is growing interest in the importance of programming and new forms of communication. One of the main challenges in contemporary art and culture is to make music of high quality in different genres available to new audiences. The increase in the breadth and quality of performers has provided new opportunities for creating and performing music. As a result, musical ensembles, orchestras, groups, bands, etc. have been established. which conveys rhythmic music at a high international level and which is notable in both domestic and foreign countries. Especially in jazz and improvisational music, but also in folk music and popular music - and in recent times also in the multicultural traditional music in Norway - there have been a number of interesting establishments. Many practitioners could also have significant commercial potential. This, together with different stages in the value chain such as record companies, organisers and support apparatus, represents a high nutritional potential. A main objective is to facilitate the realisation of this potential. SV supports the proposal to allocate the grant schemes within the rhythmic field of music on the basis of two main principles: ‘act and thorough’ and ‘rapid and close’. In the first category, the main schemes for professional creative and performing activities proposed by the Norwegian Cultural Council are reorganised and distributed, which will have a central position with management and allocation. The second category includes various grants to voluntary music life, organisations and other smaller schemes for which, in particular, Norwegian Music Councils are given extended responsibilities. SV agrees with the proposal for a new structure for Norwegian Cultural Council allocations to the rhythmic field, which will have four main arrangements: phonogram, organizer, musician and equipment. The new structure can provide a better overview and coordination of the rhythmic field and thus a better overall impact of the various initiatives. However, I would like to stress that the definition of rhythmic music requires a demarcation against art/classical music. For some festivals and ensembles, this can be problematic, because these tend to cross the boundaries between art and rhythmic expressions. For example, it will. relate to certain choirs and vocal ensembles. The Committee considers that this is taken into account through the establishment of the grant schemes and the definition of actions. We in the Socialist Left Party are particularly pleased that the message mentions black market sales. SV has made proposals to bring the sale of the black market to life. The ban on price quotations for the resale of tickets has already been shown to have a positive effect. I would like to point out in particular the importance of the Consumer Ombudsman and websites for the sale of tickets, such as: FINN.no, works together to prevent black market sales, and it has been possible to stop some companies that used to do this. We're very pleased with that. I want to include something from SV's program: ‘SV will strengthen music life, inter alia by extending the purchasing system for Norwegian phonograms and by establishing regional rock and folk music centres.’ The skirt has had a big role, and I'm asking the council to remember Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e877	We in the Left are also very pleased with this message. There's a lot of consensus about the main points of the message -- and it's also a follow-up to what's happening locally, where you've made your own messages for the rhythmic music. What I'm a little sorry for is that we in the opposition are clearly viewed as a bit of a rush in the machinery. Either it must be that the government is afraid that they will get too much boast that this is good, or they are afraid that we will find something in the message that we were unable to find in the short time. For they were very concerned that this would go as quickly as possible, and then also the involvement in the Storting a little later. I just want to say three things. The first thing I want to say is NOTAM. NOTAM was established 15 years ago and links artistic activities with education, dissemination and development activities. The centre has been a service provider and central to both the construction of music and art life and the competence of media and music technology. This is a very important area, and during the budgetary procedure last autumn, we made the government aware that NOTAM is now actually striving to offer the audience and the performers of electronic music a good meeting place because of a lack of financial support. We then assumed that the government would follow up the situation of NOTAM in the revised version. We are still waiting for the answer, and we do not see that the Storing Message answers it. Sense if it might be a little special to comment on today, I'll say something about the access to tickets. It is stated in the message, and SV is pleased that it is stated in the message, that there is a positive effect of the black exchange ban. It is nice that SV is happy that it says that it is a positive effect, but I think that SV should care more about looking at the effect than it says it is a positive effect. For one fine in one company to sell a little bit for expensive kebab is not exactly the big breakthrough for the law on this side, and the concerns left when we voted in favour, we still have. In the end, there are a lot of northern runners on the list of speakers behind me, so I have to be allowed, both as an Oslo politician and as an ethnic North Thruster, to notice some of the important scenes we have. Jazz scenes and national scenes are very important, and what's happening within the two fields shows how exciting that can evolve from what someone thought was dying and sad. Via Majorstien and a number of other folk music groups are now the most touring at this year's festivals - if you get a ticket to them - Valkyria Allstars, who has its origins in the folk music environment here in Oslo. It shows how much exciting and how much good can come out of such focused efforts in the field of culture. I would also like to refer to Rock City in Namsos, which is an amazing project. Everyone has their origins in a very active artist environment. But if these things are to succeed, it's very important that they have their base in that they're the artists -- yes, it's not sure that all rock musicians call themselves that, but I'm calling them that anyway -- and the musical environments that are actually the driving forces to get such projects going. That's when they grow up, and that's when they stand - not when they're bureaucrats. It's a challenge for all of the centers that we're building up now to be able to keep in touch and be able to be a driving force in the music environments. Because that's what brings out exciting things, and that's what creates many exciting cultural experiences for us others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e898	The Storting Message Interaction is a clear signal - a turning point, really - that the rhythmic field of music pop, rock, jazz, folk music, world music, blues, visuals, including electronics are to be recognised on the same lines as other forms of art. It's high time. We're getting more and more practitioners in the rhythmic field of music. They are noticed in both domestic and foreign countries. They reach out to many and create great commitment. This is also one of our most important cultural industries, with all that means for festivals, record companies, management, organizers and others. The goal is to have a diversity of Norwegian high-quality rhythmic music and musical breadth, which is innovative, and which reaches a large audience. Since the government change, the total amount of State music grants has increased by 192 million. $80 million. for rhythmic music. That's an increase of 82 pst. We're approaching a double to this field. The Løken Committee delivered an interim report on the rhythmic field in February. The notification is based with few exceptions on the conclusions and proposals of the Committee. We propose a new structure with four major genre-dependent schemes for professional activities to be distributed on the basis of artistic judgement and arm's length distance from the department. The four major schemes are the purchase of music, grants to organisers, a music subsidy scheme and a large joint equipment scheme. Few larger and genre-dependent schemes can provide more concentrated and targeted efforts. There's also a point that the new structure will be easier for users to learn. There are two other important themes in the Communication: internationalisation and development of competences. Norwegian musicians, bands and ensembles have extensive concert and tour activities abroad. The focus on Norwegian music exports needs to be coordinated and strengthened. Together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will look at how efforts can be better targeted, based, for example, on: the activities of the Rikskonsertene, MIC Norwegian Music Information, Music Export Norway, Ministry of Foreign Affairs grants for such actions and elements of grants currently managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. The major new initiative is regional centres of excellence for rhythmic music. Today, government grants are given to five regional jazz centres and to a rock centre in Bergen, BRAK. This support will be continued. New centres are being developed and partially operational. We will develop a nationwide and cost-effective network of regional centres of excellence based on state and regional support. Centres shall provide a support apparatus for operators during the establishment phase and shall be a link between operators and the industry. Cooperation is being established across genres and with other environments and actors in the region. We need to get back to the number of such centres or their location, and we want to take a closer look at the most advanced establishments and regions. Organisations represent a competence to benefit others. We will therefore strengthen the nationwide music organisations, and in addition, we want to further develop the Norwegian Music Council as a body for volunteering in the field of music, among others. through the management of Freefonds and as the manager of the grant to the organisations. We see that the transition between amateur and professional is slipping, and the new arrangements in the rhythmic field are also pointing towards the part of the amateur field that has boundary surfaces against the professional. The Storting Message and its treatment are an important contribution to a rise in rhythmic music. For our government, this should be an equally integrated part of cultural policy as any other field. It is not about getting the most Norwegian cultural life into state aid schemes, but it is an objective that everyone in Norway can participate in and participate in this part of cultural life as well. Then we know that the market alone does not solve all problems. There is a need for framework conditions both for organisers, for practitioners and for many others in this sector in order for us to unleash also the great nutritional potential that lies within this area. I believe that the communication will make a significant contribution to strengthening this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e919	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e922	I want to ask the Council of State about NOTAM, which was a stake in the last period both from the Council of State's own party, and himself, to the extent, as set out in the Committee on Culture, and from all of us. Now we have heard that the representative from the Left also points to the difficult economy that NOTAM has. I wonder if the Council of State can see some solution to ensure that NOTAM will be an offer in the capital also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e929	We're talking about NOTAM in the message. We are currently providing grants for action under the heading. 320 item 74 and the measure is 2,7 million. kr. Having a network for this type of music I think is important. How it is organized must to a large extent be directed by the practitioners themselves. But it's probably a reality that in this particular field, the environments are small, they're scattered around the country, and it's important to make sure that these can be in contact with each other and develop the field that NOTAM runs. So I think we'll have to take the budget line when we get there, but the fact that we mentioned NOTAM also in the message, is a clear expression that this is part of the rhythmic field of music and is going to be treated as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e937	More people haven't asked for... well, Karin S. Woldseth wants another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e940	Yes, because I have another question, and it concerns the black exchange and the law prohibiting the sale of tickets with a price quote. Now it has been said that the government councils and government parties indicate that one company has been given away from FINN.no. I guess it's turned up with a new name on the web, but I'm not going to advertise it here, I don't like it. In addition to that, there are at least four-five other companies selling tickets, and when we go to concerts, we still see the same people hanging out with long ticket covers. Does the Council intend to carry out an evaluation of the law and look at other instruments, so that we may have to do more things than just ban it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e949	Yes, I think it makes sense at least to gain experience in how the law has turned out. We knew before we passed the law, that we would probably not be able to get a complete deal with the black market sale, among other things. because this can be done from foreign websites, etc., but it will provide organisers with a tool in the fight against black market sales. So it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- it's going to be equal to-- let me write it down. the possibility for consumer authorities to oppose advertisers of black market tickets sold at an excess price, and it also enables the organisers to show off black market sellers from the area where the concert or event takes place. Our impression is that this has worked positively, but we have probably not gotten the full deal with the problem. We are very open to other proposals that can strengthen the work of making everyone available for concerts and sporting events at the price set by the organizer, not at the price set by the black market sharks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e956	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e961	This is a great day for the rhythmic music in Norway, and I am pleased to note that a total increase is behind the main objectives of the report, namely: a good concert offer across the country, good access to high-quality recorded music to enhance skills development and quality to develop the business potential of rhythmic music I would like to point out in my article the possibilities that lie in particular in the last two main goals, in the light of the announced bet on Rock City in Namsos -- the capital of the trombone rock. Last night I was on the record slip with the trouser band Podium here in Oslo and got my soul cleaned with trouser skirt, which gives a feeling of ecstasy you rarely get - at least in this room. The message states that Rock City should be a resource center for professional music. Rock City shall be developed in close cooperation with regional and national educational institutions to develop the new education aimed at what is one of the world's largest and fastest growing industry - the experience industry. In Norway, too, this industry represents an important industrial potential, for example: within game development. In order to achieve this, Rock City must engage in close dialogue with the Norwegian part of this industry, in order to listen to the industry's own needs. That's why it's natural that Rock City is given a national responsibility to develop this. Rock City Namsos shall also consist of a professional centre. The focus is on creating industry and innovation. The industry centre shall consist of a music incubator, establishment service, ideas lab and consultancy services carried out in cooperation with professional operators from the industry and business developers. The KIBIN national project has been involved in providing guidance on how such business development should work, and the aim is to create forward-looking professional jobs. I notice that the message signals a desire to build regional centres of excellence in rhythmic music. Again, it would be natural to consider whether Rock City can assume a responsibility. A lot of economies are already in place. This project has full regional backing. Nord-Trøndelag County together with Trondheim Municipality and South-Trøndelag County have delivered to the degrees. There are 20 years of discussions about the possibility of having a hotel in Namsos. Now, with this project, it is finally possible. This is a good example of the creation of new industries around such projects. According to the chairman of Rock City Namsos AS, Arnfinn Bjerkestrand, the planning is on track, and a calculating construction start in the month-end September/October this year, while the rock hotel will start up, with a one-year construction period. The State must now follow-up with the necessary appropriations. So there are years of planning over, and the vision has become a reality. In Norway’s rock town no. 1, Namsos, a unique centre for the entire national music and the experience industry based on the first-degree experience of an artist range no one knows about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e995	State Council Giske said that this was a boost to rhythmic music, and it is clear that he has a accumulated staggering behind him when he says it. I allow myself to spend a few minutes of Storting's time reflecting a little bit around this, because it's actually a social development we're witnessing: from driving with rhythmic music on a hobby basis to making it both scale and quality something completely different. Rhythmic music is creating a lot of business around it. I thought that I, like the representative Stokkan-Grande, would give a small situation report from where I came from, namely from Namdalen and Namsos, on what the wagering of the Council of State Gishe so well described in its contribution has led to. The most important thing that has led to, is commitment, an incredible commitment from very many who want to create something. Ever since I was wearing shorts, I think you've been talking about building hotels in Namsos. Now there was a hotel in the cold water of this commitment. You're talking about getting to an incubator that's going well, that's developing new jobs. High school and high school are in the think box and have suggestions on how to get up with new, exciting study offers. Then you've even moved the garage to Åge Alexandersen from Trondheim to Namsos to make people experience some of the effects that he had when he ran a lot of his composition and his lyrics. It's very good that we have a government that has a click on this area. But it's not just the Minister of Culture who should have heard the speeches here today. It is probably equally important for the Minister of Industry, for the Minister of Knowledge and for the Minister of Research, because there are so many areas affected by this. I'm very happy that we both in words and - not least - in action have a pressure on this, and that we get to develop the resource centers further, as it is put up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1008	As rapporteur, I have a comment to the representative, Mr Woldseth, who said that we had not had enough time for this message. I would strongly argue that we have had this. I would also like to remind you that there was a joint committee that went in order for us to have written hearings in a busy spring session, and when the committee agreed to that, it was precisely on the basis of the thorough preparatory work behind the message, where all actors, organisations and relevant hearing bodies have come up with their views. Their vision is also included in the message. I feel very sure that the large connection that the committee has given to the message would also have been given if the processing of the message had been postponed until the autumn or later. I just want to make a little comment about NOTAM, the Norwegian network for Technology, Acoustics and Music. It's true, as the Council of State said, that it's clearly mentioned in the message and held out as a very important actor in music life. Just before I went into the hall today, I received an e-mail from a composer, Glenn Erik Haugland, who was very pleased that the message so clearly held out NOTAM as a very important actor in the rhythmic field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1015	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3725]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1028	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1036	During the debate, Anders Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1039	In the light of the signals given by the Council of State and by the Government Parties in connection with the proposal, and the openness to carry out a proper review and rounding, the proposers will propose a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1044	The proposal is then transformed into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to the Stortinget with the necessary proposals for changes to the Church Act which give rise to attempts at, inter alia, uniform management.’ The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-13.ana.ud2400e1089	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
