ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e39	The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 3 on today’s maps are deleted because the government councils that were to respond to the interpellation have a disease history. The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund submitted an application for leave on 8 and 9 December to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Kjell Ingolf Roupstad, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e53	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e59	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e75	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e86	When the 2009 government budget was presented, there were many contributions that strengthen the environmental profile of the budget compared to the previous year. It was supposed to be missing, too. The government has at its disposal record money, and we have spent a year focusing heavily on climate and environmental work and a clearly expressed demand for political leadership and greater commitment to climate change. The agreement on climate change in winter also led to significant adjustments in the amounts in a number of areas of the budget. It is also part of the explanation that we have been given a strengthened environmental profile in the budget. The climate agreement was a good draw for the Minister for the Environment and for other government councils in budgetary work. That being said, the Left had expected an even more powerful commitment to show that Norway should have a leading role in developing the low-carbon society. We needed an overall offensive with emission reduction measures, a strong commitment to renewable energy production and investment – not rest cutting – in higher education, as well as a research promise that could contribute to providing sustainable solutions in different areas of society. There is also a lack of a device and a pressure in business policy that could show that the Government would use it as an important tool in climate action. The Left's alternative government budget is characterised by an offensive climate policy, where research and green enterprise policies are also priority areas of activity. When the government is about to make its crisis package, my advice is to look at the alternative budget of the Left. There are many good examples of how to get an offensive both in business policy and in climate policy. One example is climate change, a fund that the Left wants to use to invest in climate change entrepreneurs and businesses to help solve climate challenges. The Left's alternative budget strengthens the environmental effort by several billion dollars compared to what the Government puts up. We have a more powerful commitment to public transport. We're spending NOK 28 billion more on research funds to develop the knowledge and low-carbon society, and we're adding up to a tax shift of approximately NOK 3 billion to switch between red and green taxes. In addition, we have NOK 10 billion more to the Energy Fund than the Government adds. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is very positive. After several years of weak budgeting, there is a clear improvement. This allows for increased investment in several important areas, and it welcomes the Left. But there are still areas of concern. The Left has therefore increased its alternative budget spending on the Ministry of the Environment by more than 100 million. kr, and this is in addition to the other environmental activities that we have already explained. This is necessary because there are several areas of the Ministry of the Environment’s budget that have not received the attention and promise that were both expected and needed. One example is open-air policy, which is not a priority. The government has used well with funds to acquire properties, but there is a lack of a comprehensive policy that includes efforts to operate areas and activities. The left-hand side is 40 million. to the policy of the open air. We criticise the Government for the lack of a comprehensive offensive policy in which open-air policy is used as part of prevention and with greater weight than is the case today. We also point out that cultural memory policy lacks an offensive and that it does not meet the objective that the Culture Memory Fund should have DKK 1.4 billion as a fund capital in 2009. It takes the left-hand side of the equation and increases the provision by 200 million. kr. The Left's alternative budget also provides more money for environmental monitoring, more money for measures for the wild and more money for cleaning up poisons in fjords and ports, an area the Government has said it should invest in, but where it is actually cut in the appropriations. What is also evident is that the government's environmental policy and energy policy are hampered by internal disagreement in the Government. That's clearly the explanation that the bio-diversity law doesn't come. More resources are allocated to work on biodiversity, but there is also a need for a law that provides strong protection to avoid the evolution we have today, with the loss of species. This is not delivered. There is increasing evidence that this is due to internal disagreement, where the SV and the Central Party are the extremes of the debate and the towing that is taking place. This is probably also the case with regard to the law on motor travel in the field, which should have been delivered a long time ago. We see in the budget position that the Workers' Party and SV do not get the consequence of the Centre Party in a comment on the objective of ensuring public access to watercourse fishing, where the public contributes to building up the salmon population. Here is the Christian People's Party and the Left that secures the majority of the comment that two of the government parties are in. I want to say a little about the oil and energy department's budget. Before I do that, I have a clear desire to say that the news that we are now hearing that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is going through due to stock trading is drawing an image that I hope the Council of State will present today. It's very serious. There is great trust in Norwegian government. This is a step backwards in this way, and there is a mix of roles in the Ministry of Oil and Energy in terms of ownership and framework conditions for businesses, which are of such a nature that much indicates that there is time for a clean-up. I hope the Council of State will have the opportunity to consider the consequences that he thinks what has happened will have for the further work in the ministry. The Ministry of Oil and Energy does not provide the necessary pressure to trigger the great potential that lies here. For example, we are still among the worst in Europe in terms of renewable energy production and framework conditions. It is embarrassing to hear Norwegian state councils travel to Brussels to drive lobbyism to get away cheaper from the EU renewable directive than other countries in Europe are willing to impose. It is completely incomprehensible with the great opportunities we have associated with the supply of renewable energy production. Left plus the Energy Fund to get a more powerful bet in this area. According to our assessment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not provided an alternative that can match green certificates, which it looks like it's going to go out with before we get a scheme with Sweden. The forthcoming consideration of the Northern Region Management Plan will be a major concern for all those concerned with environmental and energy issues in the coming period. The government has contributed more to the monitoring of oil resources than to environmental monitoring. The National Association of Oil Industries cheered when they received 200 million in the budget. For seismic studies, while the environmental movement concluded that it has still not delivered what is necessary to do the job of environmental monitoring. The left takes this into account in its alternative budget and allocates more funds to environmental monitoring. In this area, too, we see that the government parties strongly disagree, with the SV and the Central Party saying no to activity in the Lofoten and Vesterålen areas, while the Workers' Party is keen for this. I am expecting a briefing from the Minister of Oil and Energy on how he assesses the issue of petroleum-free areas around the Lofoten and the West Sea. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a specific matter that Stortinget has been interested in for several years. In 2005, the current government parties together with the Coastal Party put forward a clear order for the installation contribution in 2006 for a new cable connection to the training, Værøy and Røst, so that these communities would have the cable connection they need in order to make use of their nutritional potential, not least related to the fishing industry. Here the Government has not provided what Storting has expected. Former State Council Haga answered a question from me that this issue should be resolved in the context of the 2009 budget. It hasn't happened. The industrial expansion in these municipalities is now at risk of stopping because no contribution has been made to the transmission of the cable. Then I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Ministry of Oil and Energy today is sending out a press release saying that decisions relating to mini- and micro-power plants will now be added to the County Municipality. It is a proposal that the Christian People's Party and the Left have had in this Chamber, and that has been voted down, among others. by the parties to the Government. We believe that this is a good balance in order to improve the effectiveness of treatment, and it takes care of the overall environmental concerns of the county. It's better that it's late than never, and I'm looking forward to the effect this should have. We are in a situation where last year there was an increase in greenhouse gas emissions in Norway by 3 pst. There is a need to take a take-off, and it is only to acknowledge that the Government did not take the opportunity to do so in its alternative. I believe that I can state in this post that the Left's budget is much better suited to the challenge we face in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e121	Breadcrumb is not exactly what I wanted to add to the left, nor is it the representative of Kvassheim. He is now acquiring a historical environmental and climate-budget climate agreement, and it is well enough that he does so. Otherwise, there wasn't much joy you could track, a rather uplifting relationship that Kvassheim brought up in his post. There is a rapid danger that one will become both tall and dark if one does not take along some of the historical developments that have been. The increase in climate emissions in Norway is very much referred to by experts as starting problems at Snow White. Kvassheim was the State Secretary at the Prime Minister's office when the plant was officially approved. There has also been no lack of big words – and strong words – about cableing on Training and providing it to the island community with secure supply. Is it that the Left now, in all its lack of modesty, adapts to a long life in the opposition? It has to be impossible to re-enter what left has expired in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e130	The climate policy of the left has good reason to be proud of. It was one of the reasons why, in the climate agreement, we were able to drag the government much further towards an ambitious goal and effective means than the government provided in its message that one of us remembers was largely only applauded by the Progress Party. With regard to the question of Snow White, the story is that that project was not least driven by the Workers' Party. The tailor-made tax regime and the clarification of reality were in place before the Bondevik II government joined. That is why it was also in that declaration of government that one let it go. What is now the challenge on Snow White is the management of CO2. If Aasland's involvement in the line also reflects later today, he may have the opportunity to express the same opinion that the Left and Christian People's Party has in this area, namely that we now need to have a timetable for dealing with CO2 at Snow White. In the case of training, the case was speeded up in 2005, and the promises given are given by today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e147	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e150	The red-green government set major targets in energy and environment policy when we started working in the autumn of 2005. After years of few – if any – political objectives in this field, I believe that new and ambitious objectives were high in time. A whole series of topics that have been widely discussed in the last three years have come as a result of innovation and of the fact that we have raised the topic: Who had heard of profitable carbon capture at Mongstad before we launched it? Who had heard of Norway setting itself one of the most ambitious climate goals in the world before the Labour Party leader and Prime Minister did so? Who had heard of the concept of carbon neutrality before Prime Minister Stoltenberg launched it? Who had heard of a prime minister who took the aim of over-fulfilling the Kyoto agreement before Stoltenberg and the red-green government launched just this? Who had proposed to triple the appropriations for new renewable energy through Enova before the red-green government and the red-green parties just adopted this? I could most likely spend my entire post on just such a list, but that's not the main point. My point is that we have torch to launch new ideas in the political change of words. We have not only launched many of these ideas, we have also adopted them, with concrete policy objectives and with the associated instruments. We are faced with a very serious climate challenge. The world just needs politicians who dare to think new. We don't need politicians who, out of fear of failure, let's not set big and ambitious goals. We knew when we started working with e.g. The Mongstad project, that it wouldn't be squeaky. A project and a goal of such a type often involve taking two steps forward, then maybe a little trip and one back. We knew that the opposition and other critics would stand on the sideline and shout and shout and hoie every time we stumbled or took a small false step. Despite knowing this, we dared to set these goals and start this work – because a new and ambitious policy is needed in these areas. We did it not primarily for the sake of ourselves, but for the sake of those who come after us. Climate challenges require extraordinary things from us. That is why we have set ourselves these objectives, and that is why we are implementing these objectives through concrete policies. The climate agreement has been a major political step towards an almost unanimous growth. Today there is only one party in this Chamber that does not take this massive challenge seriously. The challenge associated with the climate is too serious to spend time on those who put political games ahead of political realities. The future is too important. I have used the occasion in this room to praise the three opposition parties for part of the climate agreement. There is great respect for opposition parties as the ability to put tactical political considerations aside in a major and important matter. Then I want to spend time on a matter that, in my opinion, is quite large and serious – the matter of competitive and good framework conditions for the Norwegian powerful industry. In the Workers' Party, we went to the elections in 2005 with the aim that everything in our power should be done to give the industry a competitive power regime, but at the same time within the legislation underpinning the EEA Agreement. We were not satisfied that the Bondevik II administration gave up this matter, as they did. We thought it was worth trying to look at other possibilities – if that were possible. When, on the basis of this, we're accused of a breach of promises, it's very disappointing. We've tried. We have worked on a number of different solutions, but unfortunately, the operating space is far less within the legislation resulting from the EEA Agreement than we had hoped. So being accused of breaking the promises of lots that did not try at all is therefore quite sympathetic. We have been very concerned about the conditions for the powerful industry. The foundation of industry is a good national balance of power, the possibility to conclude long-term commercial contracts and good conditions for the network lease industry. In all of these areas, we work purposefully and well. In addition, when landing the fall-back case, we have finally secured a safe and predictable industry environment in the future. I am convinced that the fall-back case facilitates industrial solutions, and I am sure that the industry will take advantage of them. That some parties in addition base quotations from our party leader and Prime Minister, who have repeatedly been rejected as false, is therefore very serious. The Prime Minister shall have, inter alia: in this room on questions from the representative Sanner, as I pointed out once, earlier in the period rejected the same so-called quotations that have been put into the setting we are dealing with today. It was not by chance that we said that we were going to try to create an industrial power regime within the EEA Code, and that is within the EEA Code we are now operating, a reservation we have been clear all along. We have succeeded in the case of a differentiated employer's fee, among other things, a matter that the previous government had put in the drawer and given up. We are in a serious financial crisis. In the middle of this, it is gratifying to note that the interest in the Norwegian socket is very high. Compared to petroleum activities in many other parts of the world, the activity on Norwegian soil is very environmentally sensitive in many ways, including: The International Energy Agency has recently pointed out. The world needs energy. Norwegian gas can become important to replace e.g. coal-fired power stations in the future. With regard to industry and employment, it is important to maintain a level playing field in the future. New interesting exploration sites and a predictable energy policy are therefore crucial. This is a policy The Norwegian Workers' Party has always stood for, and we will also be a guarantor of such a policy in the future. Much important work has been done in the energy and environmental sectors, but a lot of work is also ahead of us: working to ensure our children and grandchildren a climate and a balanced planet also in the future to secure all households in Norway energy and energy solutions that all, regardless of the size of the wallet, can live well with work to secure all our industries, whether it be industry or other industries, safe and good framework conditions even in the future. If anyone should be in doubt, the working party and I are more than ready for the tasks ahead of us in the future. We've taken leadership so far, and we'll take it in the future as well. We act where the bourgeois parties argue. We'll bet there the bourgeois kittens. We put community and solidarity ahead of egotism and tax relief. If someone were to be the least in doubt, we're more than ready to continue our social struggle in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e210	When I heard Nordtun's major goals outlays, I thought at Bryne Football Club at the beginning of the 2008 season, which also had major goals, about moving up in the elite series. Common to representatives Nordtun and Bryne Football Club is that no one boasts of the results in relation to the goals they set. It is the results of the policy that are important, not what a law is when a party starts, and the result list of the red-green parties is very short. But I would like to have a confirmation from the representative Nordtun. The red-green batches in the committee setting write that ‘It is important to maintain a high level of oil and gas search activity, and the oil industry must also have access to interesting search sites in the future. There are still large oil and gas resources on Norwegian continental shelf which represent large values for Norway. Their exploitation would be by meeting some of the world’s increasing demand for oil and gas’. Very well said! Is the representative of Nordtun sure that all the red-green parties are behind this comment in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e222	This is in the main priorities of the red-green parts, and of course all the red-green parts are behind such an observation. Something else would be strange. We have high activity on the Norwegian base. That's the largest investment level of the time next year, as it says in the budget, at well $130 billion. There's a great deal of interest in Norwegian pedestal. It is also important that we have a stable and long-term framework for this industry. And we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e228	The representative, Tore Nordtun, pointed out that today’s government is pursuing a predictable petroleum policy. I guess there are hardly a lot of people in the industry who feel right now. On the other hand, the previous government had strong ambitions regarding petroleum research. Norway has become the world leader in the development of technology, at a higher level of field extraction, and Norway has made marginal fields more interesting and extractable due to not least focus on technological developments, where we are best in the world. Nothing has returned to the state fund more than just investment in research and development, since it is the country that has most of the revenues from the petroleum sector. This initiative has been a win-win situation in all areas. How can the representative Nordtun then stand behind and defend a cut in petroleum research, when that is the true opposite of what is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e235	If you do this like the representative Ivar Kristiansen and look in isolation at chapter and post on that very thing, he'll probably feel that way. But if you look at the total budget for research and development, it's really big dimensions above it, and we've never invested that much -- it's never been invested that much. I have to say that the commitment to the most important thing we are facing, namely the capture of CO2 and the dimensions and the economy that you put in there, is that respect. We'll follow that up. We're adding over 300 million to carbon capture. NOK just to complete the project we are starting on. Is not that research also in that industry, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e243	State Council Erik Solheim writes in a letter to the Committee on 1 December of this year. – it concerns MAREANO: ‘With a level of funding of DKK 51,5 million per year, the monitoring work in these priority areas will be completed by 2014 at the earliest.’» The representative Nordtun is talking about that we need new politicians who dare to think new, politicians who dare to set goals, and about a planet in balance. He's talking about a granddaughter taking over one day. State Council Erik Solheim has said in this Chamber that before the Government can make decisions in relation to the Barents Sea Management Plan, all facts must be on the table. Will the representative Nordtun then be the new politician who thinks new and who will be in favour of a postponement of the management plan in 2010, as the facts are not on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e255	We have adopted a progress for the management plan, a management plan that was for careful consideration both at government level and at large, and that most of the parties were behind it. It's progressing on the acquisition of knowledge, so we're going to have enough knowledge to make our decisions in 2010. Then we're going to evaluate the plan. We now put in the budget that in different areas of this management plan there should be a knowledge acquisition that should be the best possible, so that we can make our decisions in 2010. I think that's a real way to go. Such things have never been done before in the individual maritime areas on which the management plan is based – that we should base the precautionary principle, and we should have the knowledge at the bottom before we make our decisions in 2010. So I just want to say to the very end: now that we're really adding more than 815 million to the budget for the environment. kr – an increase of 25 pst. – it is historical in the environmental budget. We're proud of that. It's also included as part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e267	The Progress Party wishes to use this budgetary procedure to develop Norway as an energy power. A strong oil and energy sector is creating groundwork for technology development, high value creation and good living standards. This should benefit its citizens and businesses through secure access to energy at a reasonable price while strengthening Norway’s role in the world as an energy supplier. The fight for energy is very important, not just for Norway, but for all countries, in economic development and in the welfare community. Norway is in a unique situation in this way because as one of the few countries in the world, we export enormous quantities compared to what we use ourselves. We're actually exporting ten times more energy to our neighboring countries than what we're using. Our close friends are in the opposite situation. In the United States, half of the oil is imported by a user, and the EU expects to import half of its total energy consumption over the years to come. Then, as a nation, we must show ourselves responsible and not behave like a saturated and fresh broiler among the energy hungry fighters, but show that we are willing to exploit the energy sources we have to help secure the energy supply in our neighbouring countries and in our allies. The Energy and Environment Committee is constantly being visited by delegations from the EU and other countries, one of which is asking for an increase in imports of oil and gas from Norway in all its meetings. They depend on Norwegian oil and gas to make their society work. This also applies to countries that are offensively working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to invest in renewable energy. But they see that even in a transitional phase you have to have the energy supply in order, and then it's oil and gas you depend on. IEA, the International Energy Agency, which presented its World Energy Outlook 2008 here in Oslo a few weeks ago, also confirms this. Even in their most offensive scenario, where a United Nations Climate Panel demands a maximum CO2 level in the atmosphere of 450 ppm, there is an increase in the consumption of natural gas in the world and a small reduction in oil. However, the IEA says that Norway, as the purest of oil nations, should increase its production as much as possible. The short-term alternative to oil and gas is renewable energy or energy saving. But let's take the figures: if we're going to reduce our oil and gas production to zero, so that the EU has to replace it with renewable energy, they have to build 335 304 new wind turbines very quickly to get the same energy that Norway produces. Then you can bring the bioenergy from Norway. Then a only 332 487 windmills are needed. Or if we double today's hydropower stock in Norway, one away with 315 580 windmills. This I say not to ridicule wind turbines as such, but to show the energy that they actually have in our oil and gas, and how great challenges one then has in terms of replacing this. Therefore, it is important that a rate of renewable energy is applied. But when we know that we in Norway today have 170 wind turbines, we need 335 134 pieces. to make us independent of Norwegian oil and gas. It has to be included when discussing energy policy in Norway. In this budget, the Progress Party attaches importance to stimulating increased power generation and improving energy use. We have huge resources, and we have great untapped potential in both water, wind, forest, oil and gas and thorium, to name someone. The energy industry and the petroleum industry are productive. They have a lot of projects, a lot of experience, and they can realize a lot, even in times of economic downturn, if they get framework conditions that make it interesting. The problem is that little is realized in the energy sector. Many projects are being put on ice. A few are realized, but far from the potential one could expect. Everyone in the industry owes the same thing: unforeseeable framework conditions which are still changing and which are far from competitive compared to other countries. We have seen that the investment flow in the energy sector has gone out of the country, not Norway. It shows that there is a need for a comprehensive energy message to restore confidence in the industry that one will also do something in Norway, in addition to achieving goals that one cannot follow up with instruments. Renewable energy policy, outlined in the State budget, is too poor. The Progress Party will therefore have a strong focus on renewable energy of all technologies. We want a technology-neutral approach, not the approach we have today, where a excludes small power plants and a green certificate market, where a set of measures for wind and district heating, but not for hydro for some reason, and where one provides support schemes, selects some favorite technologies for politicians, while others are well excluded. In this context, we need to simplify the concession process for power projects. Small projects, in particular hydropower and wind projects, need to be transferred to local authorities in order to reduce queues. It is pointless with a five- to eight-year trial period, and one today has to wait two years before one gets a case handler at all. If you could realize 1 small-power TWh, with 40 cents in kilowatt-hours, it would be a 400 million-dollar value creation. kr per year. There are innumerable TW waiting in line and thus not being realised. It's a huge value creation you're missing. But I would like to congratulate the Council of State today, which announces that he is transferring the procedure for projects up to 1 MW on small power, mini-micro, to the County Municipality. This is in line with proposals made by the Progress Party and the Right in today's budgetary position. I wish that the red-green parties had a predictable enough energy policy to have supported this in the vote and not brought it as a surprise on the budget day. Then we should put in place a technology-neutral, green renewable energy certificate system that ensures that good and profitable projects, regardless of technology, are realised. Now, unfortunately, a wrong system has been chosen because the government does not have the ability to reach an agreement with Sweden due to strange restrictions. It has been seen that the alternatives provided, three different three-year wind support systems, and today no support system for either small-scale or bioenergy, has not been involved and helped. Redefining the wind energy target for 2010 so that it is not initially achieved, but nevertheless manages to achieve because it is now defined differently, creates political contempt. It doesn't create any more power. We see that State Power and StatoilHydro travel abroad to invest, and that the Council of State in a letter from today's Business last week expresses his satisfaction with it. One cannot be satisfied that projects that should be realised in Norway are being moved abroad. The Progress Party will also develop new energy technologies across a wide range. It is important to stimulate technology environments to establish themselves in Norway rather than move their projects abroad. Now we have seen many examples of both tidal and wave power projects, to mention two technologies, moving abroad because the framework conditions are not good enough. It's not useful to talk about goals when the results are missing. Then we must also have respect for the fact that immature technologies should not be commercialised to a large extent. One must be able to see the difference when something is going to be developing, and when one is going to build it into a big moon. Here, sometimes the government mixes the cards and spends money on completely wrong measures, which means that a person gets a lot of technological dinosaurs where a person could get much better results by developing the technology. So the Progress Party believes that we should increase the competence of nuclear power. All our neighbouring countries except Denmark have this. Most countries will bet on it. The report of the Thorium Committee was very clear that Norway too should develop its competence and cooperate more abroad, although it does not aim to build it in Norway. The Progress Party will put 5 million in its alternative budget. kr for this type of work. The Progress Party will strengthen the effort to improve energy efficiency. It is also one of the IEA’s main instruments for reducing CO2 emissions. We have proposed the establishment of a low-energy sample to identify the potential for more efficient energy use. It was voted down by the government parties last week. But I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Oil and Energy to the fact that today, in the form of a comment, an overall committee says that such a selection can be named, that one sees it positively. Then I challenge the state council to follow up what the committee refers to as an opportunity. I would also like to point out that in its work, the Government should stimulate more energy efficiency through the tax system, so that it does not impose restrictions on red tape subsidy schemes, but allows each actor to assess its own potential and invest in relation to it. It is important to ensure that energy efficiency improvement has conditions in line with power generation. When one sees that industrial companies have the opportunity to develop a technology that can save huge amounts of energy compared to the production of aluminium, for example, it makes no sense that such an enterprise gets only a few tens of millions of dollars in support, while if one wants to expand more power, a few billion in support within the same volume of power can. And then a not the whole thing is completely in place. The representative of Nordtun was involved in industrial power. A total collapse wants to establish an industrial power regime, but I record that it has not happened, despite promises at least every quarter since the red-green government joined. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this, because this will be a topic in an interpellation in January, but I'm recording that the government's fight against hydropower is obviously stronger than the fight for industrial power, and it's sad. The Progress Party will strengthen its alternative state budget to make domestic use of gas resources. This was an explicit measure for many governments, including this one, but it stays with the words. We saw that when Light Energy put a great deal of effort into using the gas in Rogaland, they ended up having their mouths shut and not praise from the then state council Bjørnøy, despite the fact that that gas retention would also facilitate increased use of biogas later on. The Progress Party believes that the State must have overall responsibility for gas infrastructure similar to that of electricity, and that one should be more active in the Skanled project, so that not the only one can refer to it so far, is that the project has been postponed for a few years, but that one could rather have accelerated it and given guarantees that investment decisions were taken and not merely discussed. There are also proposals in today's position that one must have guarantees for a separation plant. I note that the government parties do not support it either. The batch of progress wants to bet on putting gas into use for power generation. The potential is great, as the government has shown in Mongstad. But in all other debates later one as if this is not possible, and refers to Kårstø, Kollsnes and Skogn. It is strange that the government is so selective in its memory when it has boasted of what it was able to do at Mongstad. It shows that, as in all other nutritional contexts, the location of the projects is very important for their success, and that you do not say that if one place fails, it will fail anywhere else. But then it is important that the gas power stations that can be implemented have a framework with which to live. It makes no sense when Industriekraft Møre is informed that they will not be granted a concession without CO2 cleaning, but will also be informed that they will not be granted a concession with CO2 cleaning. Then this government has made the use of gas for power generation an impossibility. So the Progress Party believes that one should scrape the CO2 clean-up project at Kårstø and rather make sure that the money is spent on other projects that can benefit you better, with greater certainty. It is of little use to build a sewage treatment plant on a stationary gas power plant. It is also of little use to build a sewage treatment plant on a gas plant while at the same time testing the same technology at another location, at Mongstad. Then one thing should be done in the right order, test out the technology first and then build when it is possible to implement it. In this context, I want to stress the importance of one at Mongstad providing an experience from the test facility before making a full-scale investment decision. The propulsion party also provides for an offensive and robust petroleum policy with strict environmental requirements. This is important for value creation and for employment. There is a capital industry that can make up for these downtimes, but it has been treated in a vote. In the political quarter of last week we saw the reality of the policy of the red-green government: three parties that are openly arguing, even though the representative Nordtun denied it in his reply in the change of line. We have received a 20th round which was suspended for one year without justification, a TFO round which was suspended for three months, the Luteland treatment, which is reminiscent of a banana republic, the management plan which is supposed to take in 2010, but where two of the government parties travel around and protest and have already concluded, and a petroleum research that is being cut. At the top of it all, central politicians in the government and government want to steer young people away from petroleum-related education. This gives errors and bad signals. And it shows a lack of understanding of our main source of income, which has a significant share of the government budget. This shows a lack of understanding of Norway’s responsibility as an energy supplier, in the absence of alternatives so far. The choice of companies in Norway is not between investing in offshore wind turbines and in oil extraction. The company's choice is to invest in Norway or Africa. With the government's policy, more and more people will feel attracted to investing outside the country. That is why we need to have a kerosene message in addition to giving the industry the signals it needs to get investment going, so that the world's most environmentally friendly oil production can continue in Norway. One must focus on research and development in the industry. In the context of climate, the Progress Party promoted a comprehensive package of measures in 2007. It was not adopted. We have shown that we are taking the challenges seriously. We challenge the Government for solutions, because we want solutions for cutting CO2 emissions that deliver results and not just talk. We have seen in the accounts for CO2 emissions in Norway in the last year that they continue to increase, despite an offensive climate settlement according to the government's rhetoric and despite offensive measures. We want a broad approach from the Progress Party – actions in Norway, abroad and not least in research and development. Then we also want to set up a wide range of climate committees that stimulate debate and curiosity and provide good advice for government and growth. But then it is important that we allow the industry to operate in Norway and do not have such strong restrictions on Norwegian industry's CO2 emissions that we get a carbon leakage out of the country. It does not contribute to Norwegian economic growth or to reduced global CO2 emissions. That must be the point. I take up the proposals that the Progress Party stands alone or is part of. More about environmental policy will come from Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e347	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e352	In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, it is cut above 330 million. kr of the appropriations for energy and petroleum research. The reason is that they want a fund instead of the annual appropriations for the State budget. So they're proposing to transfer $10 billion to this fund next year. As is known, a fund set aside in 2009 does not yield returns until 2010. On that occasion, I find it strange that the representative is not concerned about what is going to happen next year, when a cutter in research with over 330 million. kr in the budget for 2009. Is the representative and economist Ketil Solvik-Olsen comfortable with the signals now being given by the Progress Party by shaving the state's contribution to this research in 2009, especially in view of the need for research in these financial crisis times?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e357	I am very pleased, but a little surprised that the representative Pedersen is addressing this important topic. For today's government, petroleum research has been cut off without worrying, despite the fact that this industry, which has been technology-leading, is experiencing increasing competition from other petroleum regions around the world. With Norway's high cost level, being far ahead on the technology side is very important if we are to be able to claim ourselves. Then it's true, as the representative Torny Pedersen says, if you set up a fund this year, it won't have any effect until next year. But then I just want to show that if the Advance Party had been in government, we would have set up this fund last year. We proposed the exact same thing, and then the appropriations would have come now. Unfortunately, long-term budgeting is not allowed in the way a budget is set up, so we do not see that kind of policy. But we point out in our remarks how this was going to be, and we point out that we would spend more money on petroleum research than what we spent last year – much more money than what the government spends. So I hope the representative Pedersen's concern is reflected in the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e364	Next year, the Progress Party is proposing a 200 million cut in the Energy Fund. kr, which has a direct effect on the development of new renewable energy. But I'll ask you something else. In 2007, extensive errors and deficiencies were identified on the Norwegian base. Inger Anda of the Petroleum Control Authority stated in this regard: ‘The industry presents a glare of the situation, but our supervision reveals that reality is completely different’. Petroleum monitoring fears that ‘defective maintenance management permeates the entire oil industry’. And And Anda said, ‘What we have discovered here is rarely serious. We're startled that it's so bad. Industry really needs to step up." And in June 2007, Anda said: ‘The conclusion is that the oil industry has a poor understanding of the need for maintenance and, in worst cases, life may be lost.’ As a consequence, the Progress Party has found that it is best to open all areas along the Norwegian coast regardless of their vulnerability. And not enough of that, you've cut eight million. kr in the budget of the Petroleum Control Agency next year. How can Ketil Solvik-Olsen defend such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e390	First of all, I would like to say to the introductory comment that yes, we're cutting 200 million. kr in the transfer to the Energy Fund. But last year we wanted to raise the Energy Fund's capital by $10 billion, which would have made it 400 million. kr more transferred. That's the point, that with our policy, if it had been implemented in the past, there would have been a larger amount of both renewable energy and petroleum research than the government has proposed. So I'm not getting close to that criticism at all. It just shows that the government is on thin ice when it comes to its own policy. So to the Petroleum Control and Inger Anda – I know her very well, she was my secondary school teacher. We'll give 1.2 million. kr more to the Petroleum Control this year than the Government granted last year. The government has proposed a grant greater than that, that's right. But we assume in our budget that we are not cutting control, that it is increasing, but that we are streamlining the internal operation of the Petroleum Control, which is quite possible when you look at how things are driven.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e398	Today, a whole world has taken on board the seriousness of climate change — the seriousness of it for humans and nature. Different members of the Progressive Party express themselves very differently about the need for action. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has also been unclear about climate change and its causes today. In the context of the budget debate, one year before the Copenhagen climate summit, there may be reason to ask the Progress Party whether or not they take seriously the recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e403	We have said many times that we take the warnings from the Intergovernmental Panel seriously. We also showed this when last year, at the end of May, we presented a comprehensive proposal for the Stortinget, Document No. 8:97 for 2006-2007, with more than 30 measures on how Norway should cut its emissions, invest in research, contribute internationally and develop a new climate agreement to reduce world CO2 emissions. Because it's important to be led was – although I'm very close to sharing many of the warnings and the way they're carried out by the government parties, which I feel are becoming very excessive in relation to what you put in the tools. But then it is also important to see in this debate that, even with the budget of the Progress Party, money is limited. Priority will then have to be given to those measures that are thought to be most useful in the long term. This means that bad projects, such as high-speed railways, where one tonne of CO2 reduction costs NOK 48 000, should be scrapped. Rather, more rainforest projects should be launched, with much more left for money. If you want to cut emissions, you should take the best projects first.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e419	We're now in the fourth year of the government, and it might be time to look back a little bit. I might have expected you to look a little bit more back than what the main speaker of the government actually chose to add up. The Soria Moria statement did not lack ambition. There was also no lack of promises, and you had views so it held. I think that when you're in your last year, you should be more concerned with going through what you've actually achieved on the maybe most important of all the sectors we're discussing both in this nation and in the rest of the world. For example, it's just approx. a year ago, Al Gore and the United Nations Climate Panel were here in Oslo to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. We had the climate meeting in Bali, which got a lot of attention. And we got for approx. 11 months ago, the climate agreement was in place in Norway, where fortunately we succeeded in finding a settlement, as the representative of Kvassheim mentioned in his statement. Thus, it is not that everything is joy and fun, and that we can now stop discussing climate policy here at home, rather on the contrary. A vital response to the climate challenges is to move from today's use of fossil energy to a strong increase in new renewable energy sources. This is where we have the great opportunities in Norway. This is where we sit with the largest energy resources in the world per. built-in in the case of renewable energy. The hydropower has made sure that our power supply is almost 100 pst. renewable here at home. We have Europe's largest wind resources along our coast, and in our forests, which grow every two years, there are considerable opportunities for increased use of bioenergy. We have wave energy, we have tide, we even have great expertise in solar energy. We therefore have a significant responsibility to contribute our renewable resources to the energy conversion that needs to come if we are to avoid severe climate change. Unfortunately, today’s government has failed in facilitating increased investment in renewable energy in Norway. As I said earlier, this is not due to a lack of big words. Already when the red-green government joined in 2005, it stated that it had as its vision that: ‘Norway shall be an environmentally friendly energy nation and be a world leader in the development of environmentally friendly energy’. Today, more than three years later, we can see that there is a long way between vision and reality. Instead of Norway being the world leader in the development of environmentally friendly energy, we have one of Europe’s worst renewable energy support schemes. With the vision of the Soria Moria statement – to use an image from the high-port: it reminds me of the person who was able to pass the list of 1 meter, but who chose to add it to 2.30. Then it's going to be wrong. Today's oil and energy ministers have taken the same satisfied stance as their predecessors. He should be a little careful with that. Because while the Government expresses great satisfaction with its own policies, we can see that Norwegian actors are not as impressed. By November 12th, we were able to read in Today’s Business that the state’s own company, Statkraft, would invest $5 billion in a wind farm in the United Kingdom. Too poor framework conditions for renewable energy in Norway were the reason for this. This matter is not unique, and we have seen that a number of projects among the best players in Norway in renewable energy have been added to our neighbouring countries due to poor framework conditions at home. It's enough to mention REC founder Bjørseth, Fred. Olsen Renewables and Hammerfest Energie, and in addition Statkraft's big investment together with Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget in Sweden. And the list can be made even longer. Most Norwegian governments have regularly, at intervals of a few years, made a spillover on the oil and gas business. When Åslaug Haga was Minister of Oil and Energy, she announced that she would extend this message to cover the entire energy field. This message should be the answer to all the challenges facing the Government in the field of energy. Therefore, great was the surprise when her successor, Terje Riis-Johansen, recently told me that there was no energy message yet. Instead, he would continually promote energy matters for Stortinget. We haven't seen that, but in return we've seen a number of press conferences with releases that we'll probably get plenty of opportunity to comment in the next eight to nine months. This is at a time when we are facing significant energy policy challenges, both nationally and internationally. In addition to the need to move from traditional fossil energy sources to more renewable energy production due to the climate challenges, I would point to the security challenges Europe faces in terms of dependence on energy supplies from Russia, major fluctuations in the oil price in the last year, flares and subsequent declines in Norwegian oil and gas production on the Norwegian continental shelf and further on access to new exploration land in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. It is also — well to note — at a time when we have seen in five months that the price of crude oil in Norway has fallen from 150 dollars per year. barrel and before the weekend was down to less than $40 a.m. barrel. In this respect, Norway’s main industry and source of income should be given a different priority, which can give this industry, this knowledge industry as well, severally better framework conditions and predictability politically. But also here we've seen a wait-and-see attitude. We should also have seen in today's financial crisis that the government really took the initiative, cut the swings, aside from traditional procedural procedures and demonstrated adaptability, and went into and prioritised renewable energy as part of a bet in a future image, where one can resolve the difficult financial crisis also in Norway. There are measures that will produce very positive ring-effects and provide long-term climate and employment gains. A renewable energy investment will result in small import leakages. It will provide a great deal of work in the construction phase and may allow local contractors to contribute to significant employment in a large number of Norwegian subcontractors. A massive investment now, quickly, in the renewable sector will also contribute to industrial development both in construction and in a knowledge-based industry that is ready for knowledge and capital, but is waiting for today's government to make some decisions that give activity and start-up of the many measures we have on the bed. Then I also have to comment a little bit on what the representative Nordtun was talking about in terms of industrial power. I am afraid that the Norwegian industry for the third time will now be fooled by the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties. That the previous government, Bondevik II, told the truth has nothing to do with lack of ambition. If honesty is the same thing as giving up, we have two very different approaches to the question. And it wasn't promised to do what was in the red-green power, which was presented. No, it was a promise of cheaper power to Norwegian industry. The documentation of statements by today’s government members as opposition politicians is available for this purpose, but it has not been able to deliver. On the contrary, the situation has been made even worse for Norwegian industry. Thus, the fall-back institute has managed to take from the Norwegian industry the industrial power that they had available on their own. 6 pst.-7 pst. Thus, the available hydropower that went to Norwegian industrial workplaces has been taken from the Norwegian process industry. Let me also say, at the end of the day, that when you discuss consortium models and do nothing but refer to France, it must be a paradox for today's government that you have no offer page in Norway, with the exception of Statkraft. And I think we all know how eager State power has been in this regard – or rather on the contrary. On this basis, I address the proposal presented by the Right with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e448	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e453	I must say to the article to Kristiansen that it was not so much encouraging to hear. I want to ask a question that goes on something Right has commented in comments on the environmental side. As far as the predatory policy of the Right is concerned, I will not comment on it, and I will not refer to the debate that was earlier on the uncertainty. But there's one thing the right has talked a lot about. It's the preservation of the wild species. How is it that the Right reduces the allocation to the Directorate of Nature Management by a total of 35 million? Do you really want to delete this item? At the same time, they are talking about the conservation of the wild species and the control of Gyro. But that's exactly what they're attacking. I refer here to the note of the Progress Party, which is adding to the very post of control of Gyro, while the Right reduces it. And does not the representative Kristiansen rejoice over 25 p.m. increase in the Ministry of the Environment's budget? Is that not also a point of light for Kristiansen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e460	And then finally, the answer is yes. I guess that's also a little bit near what the representative of Kvassheim was into. He used the expression: ‘It should be just missing too.’ I don’t want to say that it comes automatically, because it can say more about the kind of labyrinth level allocations through the Department of the Environment’s chapters have been on earlier. Let me also say that we are following the government's government's research and bets on Kårstø and Mongstad, on the development of CO2 capture and storage in this area. But I don't think that if you connect the rate of allocation to the Directorate of Nature Management, DN, you're doing a great deal of service to the wild beast tribe of Norway. We have greater funding in our budget at Gyro and liming in Norwegian rivers. Of course, we want a just as robust, and perhaps a more robust, policy for combating and guarding the wild axis than the government parties do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e470	The representative Kristiansen has four parts of his contribution to talk about the environmental and climate challenges we face globally. That's good, and it's easy to agree. He even encouraged the Government to cut the swings at the times we're now in. I come from a part of the country where it can't be done without a significant risk to life and health. But leave it alone. Right in the setting, the focus is on the petroleum industry and goes a long way in suggesting that the Lofoten and the West Pole should be opened for such activity, while the party, as Kristiansen sees, cooperates with the coming years, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has a quite different view. It also has a number of organizations that target the same warnings as Kristiansen when it comes to the global climate challenges. My question is: does the representative of Kristiansen worry that actors who share Kristiansen's warnings when it comes to climate, and the parties he sees cooperating with, have a rather different view on this issue than Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e479	I am more concerned that we are in a situation where the rate of extraction of Norwegian crude oil goes down dramatically rapidly. Since the millennium we have had a reduction in Norwegian oil production of approx. One-third. It is not a climate gain or an environmental gain if we come into a situation where we have to refer Europe's energy buyers to, for example, the second energy seller in Europe, namely Russia. It is quite clear that if the management plan and environmental impact assessments show that there is a satisfactory risk of launching exploration activities outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål, the Right says yes to it. I think that when we are now in a situation where the crude oil price and the energy price are down to a level where some of the activities are becoming unprofitable, we need to think further in future if we are to keep the main industry we have in Norway, namely the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e488	Our climate comrade Right has several times given the Government thin and claimed that we are too ambitious when we are going to introduce climate quotas. According to the Newspaper on June 6th this year, Højre's manager, Erna Solberg, made it very clear at the climate conference at Hafslund farm that it was not on the Right that it was not on the right to remove the increase in the fuel charge that was included in the climate agreement. So the right is incredibly good at sharing the government's ambitious goals, but when the concrete measures are on the table, they are less courageous. I wonder very much: what concrete measures are Right for which will actually contribute to a real decline in emissions in large emissions sectors such as transport and industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e493	There are a number of sectors where the Right is too much more committed to reducing national greenhouse gas emissions than what I'm going to get into here in one minute. I am very proud that we actually managed to move the government parties in the right direction as we entered into the climate agreement in Stortinget. It is clear that massive efforts to increase renewable energy production in Norway will, among other things, be made. bring in such a balance. Increased research into climate technologies, but also in petroleum technology, can help us achieve our goals more quickly than we have so far. With respect to reporting, one cannot say that today's climate action from the Government, such as the Buying cheap allowances in China to sell them expensively to the EU is a contribution to solving global greenhouse gas problems at all. With regard to charges, it is clear that without the Right in this climate agreement, consumers in Norway would have much worse conditions to deal with their costs than they finally did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e503	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e506	The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has recently presented its World Energy Outlook. The sailor, Nobuo Tanaka, warned that we could face a possible raid. The background is that the energy demand in the world is exploding, and that it is doing too little to prevent an accompanying emissions explosion. Without very extensive, very expensive and for many people very unpopular measures to increase fossil energy consumption, the average temperature of the globe may rise by up to six degrees in the long term, warns the IEA. There is such a temperature increase that will lead to ragnarok. The good news is that we can prevent this from happening. According to Tanaka and the IEA, what is going to happen is a global energy revolution, based on energy efficiency and decarbonisation of energy consumption. Today’s consumption patterns are not sustainable, neither environmental, economic nor social – still according to the IEA. It is essential that we succeed in getting an ambitious and comprehensive agreement in Copenhagen next year. Norway is an active driver of an agreement with clear objectives and contributes, inter alia, to: by means of funds for the implementation of preparatory meetings, and not least with large amounts for the protection of rainforests, for over-fulfilment of the Kyoto targets and for carbon capture and storage. We also work to get international shipping included in a new agreement. The rainforest billions are in a special class and are particularly important, both because we need to get action in place with rapid effect, and because the money helps to build bridges between poor and rich countries. It was a wake-up call when Kristin Halvorsen brought the message to Bali last year, not least because it is unusual for finance ministers to be the drivers of spending billions of money on measures of this kind. The Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party shall have their share of the honour for this to come into place, along with, among others. Nature Conservation Association and the Rain Forest Fund. The climate agreement will shape Norwegian policy in the future. Next year, we will step up research into new renewable energy and take a major step towards the goal of investing as much in this research as we do in carbon capture and storage as we do in petroleum. This is forward-looking policy. Next year, for the first time, there is a higher percentage increase in rail than on the road, and we double the allocations for the reward scheme for public transport. The car charges are further revised, with a significant increase in the charges on those cars that have the highest emissions. On the other hand, fuel-efficient cars get relief, and zero-emission cars get new benefits. The new Planning and Building Act, which will enter into force next year, also has important impacts on climate and energy: for the first time it has been legislated that climate considerations should be taken into account in planning. Local authorities have the means to implement the climate agreement, e.g.: by ensuring that dwellings, trade and jobs are provided in such a way as to reduce dependence on cars. Municipalities are given the opportunity to restrict parking in cities and agglomerations, and they can decide that public transport should be better accessible than car traffic. It will also be possible to impose requirements on the use of district heating. The target of cutting 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, two-thirds of which are to be taken at home, needs to be followed up by many concrete instruments – more than those we have outlined in the climate agreement itself. The SFT is fully involved in identifying instruments. In addition, a sample has been set up to address the vulnerability and adaptation needs of Norway as a result of climate change. In particular, there are the direct physical impacts of climate change to be addressed by the sample. I think, like the Minister for the Environment, that this sample's work can make it clear how dramatic the climate noise actually is, and thus help to speed up the work on new measures. The big issue now is the financial crisis. It is extremely important that Norway helps to keep focus on how to link this crisis with the necessary instruments that take into account climate change and climate justice between poor and rich countries. I am pleased that it is Kristin Halvorsen, and not Siv Jensen, who is going to praise this internationally. In SV, we are very concerned that Norway needs to implement the renewable directive quickly and that we need to keep pace with the negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate market. Norway has a high renewable share when calculating how the EU has done so. But we have to remember that offshore is kept out of these calculations. In addition, Norway is very rich, which also counts. SV believes the Renewable Directive is an important directive, which can help speed up the development of new renewable energy in Norway, and an important step towards establishing a single market for green certificates with Sweden. In addition, the Directive sets important targets for energy efficiency improvement, which is part of the climate change solution, inter alia. The IEA shall call for it. Therefore, SV believes that Norway should incorporate the renewable directive into its legislation and assume the same climate obligations as EU Member States do. SV believes that Norway needs to be converted. We have to take into account a development we know will come, and position ourselves in the competition that will also come. Norwegian emissions are now increasing, including: as a result of Snow White, Kårstø, prosperity trends in Norway and the growth of emissions from the transport sector. Therefore, much stronger lye is required in the future to be able to turn the shot in time. Therefore, it is good that Norway is offensive in the negotiations that are taking place in Poland. And it's good that the funds for climate information measures double to next year. We all have to contribute to making this work, and it pays to start early. It is also the case that the low-emission society provides Norway with new opportunities. I would argue that offensive authorities provide the best basis for their citizens. Climate policy is not primarily about neglecting, but about taking into account, sharing and creating something new and sustainable. For example, large parts of Norwegian industry have become more robust and competitive as a result of strict environmental requirements in combination with support and cooperation from State authorities. Similarly, a no to highly polluting gas power plant became a yes to CO2 management, Norwegian technology development and a Norway in front of the international arena. And: We are in the process of getting a strengthened Norwegian car industry – who would believe it? — as a result of the climate situation and that Norway was early off to give the electric car advantages and benefits at the expense of the polluting car park. Think is progressing, and we've just seen the beginning. At the other end, we see how those who didn't take the climate problems in, now are struggling hard. General Motors in the United States is going bankrupt. They were betting on Hummer and other petrol-lubricating cattle from some cars, and refused to admit that the time of cheap petrol is actually over. In Norway, the Progress Party is running this line – very stupid, very backward and very little forward-looking. I'm going to use the rest of the post to talk about the Ministry of the Environment's budget. We are increasing the Environment Ministry's 810 + 5 million framework. kr next year. 200 million. kr is increasing the Culture Memory Fund. Twenty-two million. kr shall be used for a new competence centre for ice and climate at the Norwegian Polar Institute in Tromsø. This centre will be an important Norwegian contribution to international efforts to acquire knowledge about the consequences of melting ice and glaciers. It shall also provide an increased understanding of the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Government's Climate Change Initiative information campaign will increase its support by 8 million. NOK 16 million. kr, that's a double, like I said. However, the large amount of money in the Ministry of the Environment budget goes to the preservation of Norwegian nature: a total of 345 million. kr. ‘The State budget of the year provides a power measure for the monitoring and monitoring of species and natural habitats. This is a joyous and longed-for news. The Ministry of the Environment is stepping up its work on monitoring, monitoring and conservation of biodiversity. [[...]] With 15 million to complete the National Park Plan by the deadline set in 2010 and 63 million to manage and manage protected areas [[plans, supervision, monitoring]] These are not my words, but the words of the Secretary General of WWF, Rasmus Hansson. Over 40 million. kr is granted for the conservation of plant and animal species and 15 mill. Allowed to continue working with a nationwide natural index. In addition, Norway shall launch a species project similar to that carried out in Sweden. Twenty million. kr shall be used to implement efforts to increase knowledge status of species and habitat types in Norway. In addition, we get the natural school bag, which can be the starting point for getting Norwegian children to take more interest in climate, nature diversity and real science. In addition, it gives children the opportunity to enjoy nature along with professionals who can inspire and impart new knowledge. In addition, it provides an option for alternative, practical learning. Speaking of outdoor life, outdoor life is of great value for many reasons, including public health, quality of life and awareness of and care for Norwegian nature. It is important to ensure the proper operation and care of the open air areas, and this must be done in close cooperation with the relevant open air organisations. There are quite large sums of money spent buying and arranging open-air space in recent years. In order for people to have access to these areas, it is necessary that they be cleared and maintained and that access to these areas is ensured. That's why we're increasing the appropriations by 5 million. kr. Cooperation on voluntary protection with the Norwegian Forest Organisation will continue in 2009, and this is important. We therefore increased the use of money for voluntary protection by 150 million. kr in the current year, which shows that the will is well present. Norway is the only country in Europe that has intact high mountain ecosystems with wild rain. Villreinen is therefore a Norwegian species of responsibility. The continuation of efforts at the wild reindeer centres will be important in order to maintain the wildreindeer. The government is increasing its efforts to meet the national target of securing 6 million inhabitants of the wild. kr next year. Besides, we're going to give 5.5 million. kr for a wild reset at the Villureinsenteret on Skinnarbu – what I think is extra fun. It's going to be exciting to see what the result is. Also, the wilderness axis gets its next year, and I want to stress that both mountain reef projects need to be continued in a way that makes us reach the goals we have set. The mountain reefs are critically threatened, and the Government must ensure that both of these projects are maintained at a level that prevents the eradication of mountain reefs and that sufficient funds are allocated to both projects. Finally, I would like to say that we have now passed one million species observations in Norway. I think that's great. It's over twice what we thought we were going to do this year, and I want to pay tribute to all the dedicated people who have spent a lot of time registering species in Norwegian nature and getting this into the new tool that the Art Database stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e575	I'm not sure I would have guessed if I hadn't known that Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Tore Nordtun defend the same government here today. This may well indicate that the representative Thorkildsen has brought a little bit of the lawn into Eidsvoll's place and a little demonstration. For Tore Nordtun actually said that we were going to extract more oil, we were going to make available more new prospective areas for the oil industry. It sounded as if the representative of Thorkildsen thought the opposite. My specific question goes to an answer that the State Council has given me on written question No. 1494 this year. It is stated that the Government is confident that the information provided by both MARANO, which is about seabed surveys, and by SEAPOP, which is about seabirds, in 2010 will be sufficient – not to say yes, as I hope, of course, that the result will be, but to say yes or no – i.e. that there is a sound knowledge base for both seabirds and seabeds in spring 2010. Does the representative of Thorkildsen agree that an adequate knowledge base will be available in spring 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e582	I have no reason to believe anything else. When the council says that, I'm going to base it, of course I do. What they're telling us is that you can't use more than what we're giving next year to MAREANO and SEAPOP. We have established a precautionary principle in these areas, the most vulnerable and valuable areas. It is quite different from what the Progress Party has done, which does not care at all, nor does it look at the reports that have come from the Petroleum Authority, which I referred to in my reply to Mr Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party. These just showed the need for a proper allocation to the Petroleum Authority, which the Advance Party cuts by 8 million. kr next year, despite the fact that history shows that they need high appropriations to oversee this oil industry. What we're assuming is that we both need proper supervision and a precautionary principle to ensure that we don't put our most valuable and vulnerable areas at risk. I must also say that Tore Nordtun and I are fully in line, we believe that we need courage and leadership in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e591	Very many red-green politicians, especially the Prime Minister, believe that Norway is an environmental policy priority country. There is, of course, a need to show what it actually means: a leading country is moving ahead of other countries, bringing with it measures and new instruments of environmental policy followed by other countries. It also means action, not rhetoric. In a debate related to the government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state in 2005, Heidi Sørensen asked in a reply to the Right: Where do we think it is a country of the right? I want to turn it over to the representative of Thorkildsen: Does Thorkildsen think that we are now an environmental policy country? And not least: does she share the Right's belief that by investing in the future, especially in environmental technologies, we have the opportunity to become a priority country, and that we should rather put away rhetoric and look at concrete action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e598	I believe that in the international negotiations in which Norway is now participating, we are clearly a leading country. It is partly thanks to the Government, partly also thanks to an opposition that has been very constructive in terms of the climate agreement, and among other things. made in relation to the rainforest billions. It's been watching. Another thing that has alerted us is the stakes on CCS, i.e. CO2 management. Here you can thank, among other things. Because we have come as far as we have, because if it had been up to the right in its time, we would have gone too far in polluting gas power plants, instead of investing in billions in cleaning up these gas power plants. Then we had had even bigger problems than we have today, when we see that the emission figures unfortunately point the wrong way. To this extent, the right also has responsibility for several other matters, including: Snow White, and I can't see that you have been particularly concerned about trying to bring down emissions from car traffic. I think that we are a leading country in international negotiations, but we have a way to go in terms of national emissions figures, and here I think we just need to work together to try to get a more offensive policy forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e610	In 2007, we set a national record in climate emissions – 11 pst. higher than 1990, 10 pst. higher than the Kyoto agreement we have ratified. I believe that both the representative of Thorkildsen and the undersigned regret this. But the representative Thorkildsen mentions in his post that we have to use a much stronger lye in the future. One of the areas where we're increasing emissions is the road sector, says SSB numbers. It's in this area that I want to have a question, because the representative Thorkildsen has a burning heart for electric cars, which many of us have. But the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget proposal changes the fees for electric car and plug-in car more than what the Government is doing, because we believe that some of the key in relation to this sector is just within these car types. I want to give the representative Thorkildsen an opportunity to make a concrete statement. What measures does the representative take into account the concept of ‘higher lye’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e615	I thank you for the question. One of the things we're going into from SV in the new period we're going into after the election next year is that we should get an international agreement that prohibits the sale of petrol cars from 2015, i.e. cars that can only run on polluting fuels. These include: because there is no reason to continue to rely on petrol cars when technology has come so far that alternatives are available. Among other things, the representative Holten Hemdal plug-in hybrid, which is going to be a very important option for Norwegian families from 2010, and which we want to give more benefits, so that it becomes commercially available to more families. So I think we have a big challenge in terms of infrastructure for electric cars and plug-in hybrids. We have to work on getting charging stations several times – this is done, among other things. in the urban areas, but we also need it elsewhere. Lærdal can serve as an example here. The reward system for public transport will also be able to contribute by showing concrete reductions in road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e625	2009 will be a challenging year for the world. The food crisis that marked the beginning of 2008 has been replaced by a financial crisis that is now threatening to send millions of people into poverty and hunger. The financial crisis is now taking place too fully in Norway, and will also mark the political agenda of the coming year. The financial crisis can be used to become a greener society, if there is political will, which the Christian People's Party hopes to exist. 2009 will also be a crucial year for addressing the second major global challenge, namely the climate challenge. In 2009, the world’s nations are to be brought together in Copenhagen to establish a new binding climate agreement. It is necessary to lay down requirements for severe cuts in global greenhouse gas emissions. Future generations will not tolerate a defeat in Copenhagen. The questions are: do we manage both of these crises in 2009? What role does Norway play? There may be cause for concern here. However, I choose to be conditionally optimistic, because I believe the seriousness of the situation and the awareness of the consequences for future generations will force us to make the right choices. Although both poverty and climate are global challenges, Norway has a job to do here at home. Norway is a small country, both in the populace and on the map, but we have great resources. Measured by the size of GDP, Norway is among the 25 largest countries in the world. Let's measure GDP per year. The population, we come in second place, just turned off Luxembourg. Our wealth is based on the extraction of fossil energy, which in turn is the cause and driving behind both climate and poverty problems. Norway’s response to these challenges is not negligible. Our status as a rich, Western energy nation must be used to go ahead and show the way to other countries that are not as fortunately placed as we are. This brings me to today’s theme – the 2009 state budget. The Energy and Environment Committee manages two of the main policy areas for tackling climate challenges. 2009 will be a year of destiny for international climate policy. The question is whether this is reflected in the 2009 State budget. My answer is: in some areas yes, in other areas no. Let me first say that the Government is essentially following up what we agreed on in the climate agreement, with some exceptions. In particular, I would like to promise that we have been able to increase the appropriations for research and development in renewable energy sources and carbon capture and storage. We got an increase in the appropriations for the Climate Change Summit. It is also good that the government is following up on funding work on international climate negotiations. I think it's in place to praise the Government for a good environmental budget. For the first time in a long time, there is reason to call the Ministry of the Environment a budget winner. But then there have probably also been some years of rest cuts here. So over to the a little bit more sad areas. Norway is blessed with incredible resources for renewable energy production. In the postwar period, visionary politicians contributed to a large-scale expansion of hydropower. We all enjoy this force today, and Norway has a total share of renewable energy of 60 pst. We're good at this. Too little has happened in recent years. We've probably rested a little bit on our laurels, while the world around us is screaming for the pure energy that we possess. We have Europe's best wind resources, but unfortunately one of the worst renewable energy development support systems. The 2009 budget does not change that fact. The appropriations for renewable energy continue at the same level as in 2008. Climate agreement is also broken in this area, by unilateral investment support for wind power, while other technologies such as wave power, tidal power, salt power, solar energy and small power do not have new framework conditions to deal with and live on Enova’s grace. The red-green batches have failed in terms of renewable energy. Enoxens no to green certificates in 2006 has led Norwegian investors and entrepreneurs into an endless desert migration and the result is that billions of investments take place abroad. Similarly, our Council of State, Riis-Johansen, maintains that Norway is the leader in the development and development of renewable energy. So far he has managed to convince himself and his friends in the government and in big groups, but unfortunately none of us. The Christian People's Party proposes that extra 10 billion be allocated to the Basic Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency, which will increase the return by 450 million. kr – not in 2009 but in 2010. Since we need renewable energy now, and we need better framework conditions, it is important to put in place green certificates or similar framework conditions, which trigger just as much renewable energy in the short term. Conscious consumption is important. Our water resources have made us use too much power for areas where we shouldn't use power. In order to speed up the conversion process, we will increase the appropriations for the support scheme for electricity saving in households by 20 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Climate challenges require the world to reduce the use of fossil energy. The Christian People's Party believes that this must gradually be reflected in Norwegian energy policy, even though we are a large oil and gas producer. One of the most important environmental issues in the coming years is the question of oil extraction outside the Lofoten and the West Sea. The Christian People's Party has a clear position on this; a petroleum-free zone must be established outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. According to the Barents Sea and Marine Area Management Plan outside Lofoten, it is important to identify both environmental resources and geological conditions. The 2009 State budget increases the appropriations for geological surveys more than the total allocation for environmental monitoring in this area, despite the experience of the current year, where fishermen were put on land and catches were severely reduced as a result of seismic shooting. The Ministry of the Environment is very unclear as to whether the monitoring of the environment by MAREANO could be completed by 2010. In response to the Christian People’s Party on 21 October, it is said that the MAREANO budget for 2009 covers the costs of completion of monitoring related to the management plan during 2010. However, in its response to a similar question to the Committee on 27 November, we get another response from the Council of State Erik Solheim that the management plan cannot be completed before 2014. The question is, What is the correct answer? In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we propose to reduce the funding for geological mapping by 100 million. kr, while increasing the funding for the MAREANO programme by 9 million. kr. A week and a half ago, the news came that the government is not buying climate allowances in 2008. The provision of 505 million. kr in the current year's budget is reduced to zero. Nor has the government been able to link us to the EU allowance market because the allocation plan was not approved by ESA. This is sad. But it also begins to become quite clear that the government is betting too much on one horse, and that the horse's name is Freebump. When large parts of Norway's commitment through the Kyoto Protocol are to be met with the purchase of allowances, while national emissions only continue to increase, we are in a hopeless path! In particular, when the purchases of allowances fail. We have to hope that the Government will succeed in buying a quota in 2009. The entire credibility of Norway rests on this point. Oversatisfaction, climate neutrality – I can only mention the great new words that our Prime Minister has put on the political agenda. But I also hope that the government, precisely because it is struggling with the purchase of allowances, sees the need to spend more money nationally to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions here in Norway. If the difficulties in the trading of allowances continue, we believe that the money should be re-disposaled to climate action in Norway, also in view of the fact that greenhouse gas emissions in 2007 became a record that neither of us has earned. I bring this up with the proposals that the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e666	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e671	These are gloomy reality descriptions that the representative Holten Hemdal is coming along with. But despite this, it is gratifying to note that the Christian People's Party also shows through this debate that they are closer to today's government than the Progress Party on environmental issues. It is good given that there is one year left for the election and the possibility of a government with a party that does not recognise the climate problems, as the dominant party. The leader of the Left has on several occasions been exemplary to the Norwegian people that government cooperation with the Advance Party is not relevant to the Left. Could the representative Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party be equally clear that government cooperation with the Advance Party is also irrelevant to the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e678	Both the representative Nordtun and the representative Aasland have said in reply that we in the opposition have dark posts. I feel that I am real. I boast to the Government for what it should have boasted of, and I criticise where the Government has not delivered. With regard to the Christian People's Party's relationship with the Advancement Party, it's pretty clear. We have said that we do not want a government with the extremes of Norwegian policy. In it lies implicitly which parties it is excluded for the Christian People's Party to be in government with. We want to be part of a government where we get an impact, where we have enough weight. That's why we don't go into government offices no matter what. We do not want to do like the Workers' Party, which does not get the entire government with regard to the purchase of fighter aircraft, the Services Directive or the Foreign Affairs Act. We want to be in government if we get through. We do not want the extremities of Norwegian policy to be included in such a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e685	The representative Holten Hemdal shows a real environmental exposure in his article here today and has done so in the past. It's an engagement that we share in the Center Party. We find the good environmental solutions, we feel, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Government, while the Christian People's Party points to the Right who will be joining the government in future. When we look at the budget setting, we see that there is very little convergence between the Christian People's Party and the Right's priorities when they propose changes to the Government's arrangement. We also know that within the petroleum policy there is a great difference between the parties. My question to the representative Holten Hemdal is: What kind of environmental policy is Holten Hemdal and the Christian People's Party identifying themselves most strongly with? Is that Right's environmental policy? Or is it the environmental policy of the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e694	Traditionally, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have been very close to each other in terms of environmental policy, because both parties believe that we build society from below, and we take local democracy seriously. Unfortunately, it was a spring with some good frogs – I don't know completely – when the head of the Center Party chose new friends, they changed friends, and there have been some consequences regarding what government today's central party is in. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right in the Bondevik II government, was happy. We conducted a good environmental policy together with the Right. And I am absolutely sure – I think the representative too can be sure – that if the Christian People's Party joins the government with the Right and with the Left, we will pursue a forward-looking environmental policy, which is local, which is professionally well documented and which is forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e701	I'm a little confused about the Christian People's Party's position on the management plan for the area around Lofoten and the West Pole. In the budget position, there is a cut of 100 million. kr for the work to be done there. At the same time, they will extend the period, which has been strongly warned by fishermen — and especially by fishermen in that area. They want us to complete the seismic studies, so that we can roll this up and get the mapping in place – not drag it out for years, as obviously the Christian People's Party wants to do. My question is, what is the Christian People's Party's policy for the management plan and the Western Treaty? Is it so that the Christian People's Party has already decided that we do not need this at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e708	It's serious to get accusations from a great politician that you're running a policy that confuses an old ring reef. But it is the Christian People's Party's policy in this area is quite clear. We want to have knowledge from seismics, but we also want to have knowledge about the environment and bird life. When the Government adds up to such a division of bias as they have done in all three of the last years, the Christian People's Party must help the Government to get a proper weight. I think the fishermen want fish first and foremost. In 2008, they were put on land. The Minister for Fisheries asked them to look for compensation because they were not allowed to fish. I think the fishermen's first wish is to be allowed to be there and fish. The 2008 Seismic Shooting, to which the Government provided, led fishermen to seek compensation for their livelihood.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e717	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e720	The budget on which today's debate is concerned is, in the view of the Centre Party, a good budget. It's a good budget for nature and the environment, and it's a budget that meets the energy challenges we have in an offensive way. The latter is underlined by the fact that Enova, which is the Government’s leading traveler when it comes to renewable energy and energy saving, has nearly SEK 1.5 billion at its disposal next year. Reducing global climate change is a key challenge for all countries in the coming years. Earth's climate lays the outer framework of all life and activity. Norway has seen offensive targets to contribute to the green effort that now needs to be global in order to limit global warming by 2 degrees on average. The work on the capture and storage of CO2 continues and is followed up in the next year's budget. Technology development and knowledge of CO2 capture and storage are among the most important contributions we can make globally to bridge the gap between the fossil and renewable energy communities. Research efforts in relation to both capture and storage and renewable energy are being stepped up, while efforts on petroleum research are being somewhat reduced. In the view of the Centre Party, this is a proper prioritization of resources. The strengthening of Enova helps us to benefit more and more from the potential we have for energy saving and strengthen our efforts for the production of more renewable energy. The government has also over time stepped up its support for case management in NVE, and the capacity is double since the government change. New steps, which were published today, and which delegate the concession management to the county councils as regards micro- and mini-power plants, are also joyous. We must aim to be self-sufficient in renewable energy and become a net contributor to renewable energy for Europe in the long term – the next year’s budget proposal supports such a strategy. Power resources are particularly important for Norway and have been legitimately associated with jobs and wealth for the last hundred years. The centre party wants it to be the case in the future as well. It is therefore appropriate to bear in mind the decision to drop back, as the Storting did, and the significance it will have for the future. Furthermore, it is important for the renewable effort that negotiations with Sweden on green certificates are closed, and the Central Party believes that Norway should implement the renewable directive as soon as possible. It will also be a targeted renewable production tool. The production of renewable energy, whether it is hydropower, wind power or other forms of renewable production, leads to interference in nature. These are challenging places. Often, those who live in areas with intervention experience little benefit from the investment they make. An example of this is force lines. People often experience the paradox that even if they live in an area where there is a surplus of power, and they live close to power generation, they still have to pay a higher proportion of the electricity costs than, for example, electricity generation. the builders of more densely built strokes. This option allows to correct the rule by increasing the permissions of the smoothing system for networks. This will contribute to a direct reduction in online rent for the final users who live in parts of the country with the highest transmission costs, which is very enjoyable. The centre party has previously pointed out that Norwegian government powers have been much more eager to protect new areas than to preserve the values of the areas already protected. This is also pointed out by the National Audit Office. We are pleased that next year's budget calls for a shift of focus towards a greater follow-up of already existing protection areas and the values that lie there. The centre party is convinced that strong local and regional management of protected areas is a success factor for good governance. By strengthening municipalities and their role in administrative work, as well as building up under the important work of the mountain government and the various local and regional administrative forums, conflicts are dampening and making it easier to make a positive use of the protection areas of the municipalities’ development work. We are also pleased that the Government is strengthening its efforts to prevent and mitigate the conflict in predatory policies by nearly 34 million. kr. Too many people who live and feed in areas with a lot of predators, there's a lot of stress. We're asking for this to dampen this. We also enjoy a larger bet on the addition to the open-air area. As a joint committee says, physical inactivity costs the Norwegian community billions as a result of increased sick leave and additional consumption of health services. A commitment to outdoor activities will be a targeted effort to reverse this trend. The 2009 budget year will be a year with many important environmental and nature investments. The red-green government is following up a conscious and comprehensive commitment to renewable energy, CO2 management and good nature management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e753	In Norway today there are many buildings of protection. Too many of these stand and are due because the Government does not see itself able to initiate renovation, as the costs are too large to meet the requirements of the Ministry of the Environment. The centre party says in its programme that they will use effective instruments, such as tax relief and VAT reduction, to ensure the protection of protected buildings. That's very good. The question to the representative Erling Sande is: does the representative believe that the 2009 government budget, together with those measures, is sufficient to protect this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e763	I'm very pleased with the question and Skårmo's commitment to protective buildings. This is our cultural heritage. It's the cultural heritage that we have from those who have lived and are here before us, and that we're going to pass on to those who come after us. The government has invested heavily in cultural memory in the year we're going into now. It's the Cultural Memory Year. One has increased the fund, and one makes more money available just to boost efforts on protective buildings and other cultural memories. It's a strategy that the Center Party is fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e770	The difference between vows and rhetoric on the one hand and action on the other hand characterises this government significantly. Ola Borten Moe said in an article on 25 November 2005, in an interpellation debate, the following: ‘We shall build gas power plants which both provide the necessary clean power, which provide added value on the base and which contribute to the development of technology needed by the world. We're going to create a green certificate market that will give us more wind and water power. We need to intensify the work on energy saving. We're going to put in place a system that will give us an offensive commitment to bioenergy and water-borne systems." I fully agree with Borten Moe that this should have been in place. The question goes to the representative Sande: why are the government parties also trying in this debate to silence paralysis with empty, powerful rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e784	I believe that one should be quite small if one does not see what is happening both in technology development and in energy, when it concerns both the efficiency and the construction of renewable energy around the country. I have repeatedly listened to the opposition in front of a censure in this room that gives the impression that nothing is happening, that there is not a new watt of renewable energy coming into the network, and that is wrong. That's wrong! New renewable energy production installations are being built. In my county, almost all rural small-scale power plants feed new, renewable and clean energy into the network. The government is resuming conversations with the Swedes to set up a green certificate market. And money for technology development is spent in a wealth of monn on the budget of the document we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e796	I am very pleased with what the representative Sande said in his post, that the Central Party wants us to be self-sufficient in energy, and also that we are going to be net exporters when we have the opportunity. In other words, the representative goes away from the national government decision taken by the party in 2006, to hijack all the cables to Norway and let us be to ourselves. But the representative also mentions Enova, that it is the Government's leading tool in the field of renewable energy. I want to give the representative an opportunity to tell what is the difference in the budget that we have today, in the current year, and next year's budget to Enova. That was 2,000 million. We granted last year. There was 1 øre/kWh in the mark-up on the network tariff, and there was a return on the fund of 1,4 to 1,5 pst. That's also the same thing they're going to have to have next year. What are the new measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e803	Let me first comment on the announcement to cut all the cables to the rest of the world. It is important to ensure an energy supply for all parts of this country. It has to be priority 1. First, it is important to ensure domestic cable construction that we can have the same price level as possible in this country, and to ensure the flow of electricity to those parts of the country that today have a poor response when it comes to power supply. But when that's said, we need to have views that go beyond that. And if we succeed in increasing the energy production of renewable energy, which is both my party and Line Henriette Holten Hemdal's party's goal, then the objective must be that we can contribute to this stream of energy to Europe, replace impure energy production in Europe and thus contribute to reducing global climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e810	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e813	The red-green government has delivered a historically good environmental budget that has broken down for many years or partly decreased the environmental budget and given it a significant rise. I'm glad the Storting admits it. Although there is something further inside of some representatives to admit it than with others, my impression is that this is a broad recognition in Stortinget, with some people that this budget should have been delivered by themselves, with others that they have at least some respect for the fact that the government has actually delivered. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are adding broadly sensible points that are good candidates for increases in recent years' budgets, but they are not quite able to convince that they would be able to deliver this budget if they had been in government. The Right Party and the Advance Party cut a part of this budget, but not at a very close distance to the level at which the budget was at when they themselves put in government or had real influence on government policy. In other words, in this area, there is one alternative, and it is those who are now in government. The other parties go in every possible direction, some more reasonable than others, but there is no alternative to government policy. If I'm going to point to a single point where I'm a little surprised by what's presented, it's the Right's idea that you can take from operating on the environmental protection budget to saying real environmental protection. It's an idea of the same kind that you think you can have a defense budget if you don't have soldiers, but you just have equipment. Indeed, there are employees who are performing environmental monitoring, setting standards for environmental regulation, and negotiating in Poznan – which is much of the environmental protection. Just to mention some of the most important things in this budget: there is much more money to protect forests and national parks. The Trillemarks have now come into being, and in all three municipalities, there was a unanimous decision on the final protection – which honours the rapporteurs and those who have been given it through, and the many who have contributed to negotiating through such a good process. The species project that many of us dreamed of getting money for many years is now money. Environmental efforts in cities do not have large amounts of money, but it has a good start. The cultural memory year receives significantly more money, also for the cultural memories of daily life. In research, we get more money for the competence center for ice and snow, and globally, the forest project is of great interest. Let me make two other comments. When travelling internationally, the conclusion is that Norway is in a special position in one area. We are the only country I know that has a large party of 20-30 pst. digestion, which takes every day and hour to sow doubt around the Intergovernmental Panel, instead of mobilising behind it. There is no such thing in any Nordic country, not in Germany, in England or in the United States. It's strange to have a lot like that. The question to be asked is: Will those who intend to cooperate with this party in government, or will a government based on the support of such a party, be willing to give that party influence on something as crucial for the future of the globe as climate policy? Erna Solberg in his time made an overview of all the points on which the Progress Party could not be allowed to have influence in a bourgeois assembly government. But climate and environmental policy was not on that list as far as I could register. The question to the Right – for that matter also the Christian People's Party and the Left – must answer is: Is climate and environmental policy an area in which it is excluded that the Progress Party can have influence, or can it be thought that the Progress Party can have influence in this important area, which will have very serious consequences for Norway's reputation in the world? Let me end by saying that the really big challenge we're all facing, not least Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, is the connection between the financial crisis and the climate crisis. The climate crisis is the biggest, the most long-term and difficult to solve, but the financial crisis is now facing enormous challenges. Nobel Prize winner Krugman was in Oslo on Friday. He said he didn't see any clues as to how to get out of the financial crisis. We are now in a situation where we need to connect the two, look at what short-term measures in the resolution of the financial crisis can also bring us out of the climate crisis in the long term. Fortunately, this is what Mr Sarkozy thinks, both from the President of the European Union, from China's Prime Minister Wen and from Obama, but we have to bring that idea back to Norway, and I will challenge the Storting and all parties to participate in a good deal in order to think about how we can connect intellectually, politically and practically these two crucial challenges that we face today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e839	It is a pleasure to sit and hear a councillor who is so on the moon landing plane that he does not have his legs on the ground. The Progress Party has submitted a comprehensive proposal with more than 30 points on how to reduce CO2 emissions. So the government's presentation is going to be completely wrong. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State to see if there is anything else he can be a little specific about, for example. The comments of his own people in the Storting, where one speaks of maintaining a high level of exploration activity, accessing interesting exploration areas for the oil industry, and one should make the most of these resources. Is this a policy that the Council of State will now follow, following the orders of the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget, rather than at every opportunity to travel around and try to protect areas in the northern regions, to try to stop oil activities and to have figures talking about political steering of youth away from petroleum-related education? Will he take the signals from his own red-green majority on the Stortinget to bet on the oil business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e851	The answer to the last question I think we can safely leave to the national meetings of the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party to decide on, and on the basis of what they decide, I am absolutely convinced that we will find something that the country can safely live with and that is far, far better than what the Progress Party will be near to. But I can't let go of the first. The Progress Party has a Vice-Chairman who has publicly declared that he will travel around Norway and win votes on such doubts about the UN Climate Panel. When Al Gore and Pachauri received the Nobel Prize from the Climate Panel, the Advance Party continued to ridicule them, to be satirical and funny at their expense, instead of presenting them. It simply does not make political sense to bother taxpayers in Norway with a number of expensive proposals to implement climate action, if it is not even known whether it is agreed that such measures must be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e859	President! The claims are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e864	The Council of State is obviously wrong when comparing the Right Cut at the Ministry of Environmental Protection with providing better equipment, but not having soldiers. It's actually like giving soldiers better equipment and cutting down the number of bureaucrats in the Ministry of Defence. Don't say that. At the same time, I will move on to climate policy, and ask the Council of State whether it is good climate policy to sell allowances to the EU for an overall cost framework of DKK 2.5 billion, which contributes to 13.5 million tonnes of increased CO2 emissions or about a quarter of Norwegian annual greenhouse gas emissions, in order to increase the reserve assets of a Norwegian country already in search and contribute to paying for some or all of the amount – plus significantly more – the 810 million. in the case of an increase which has taken place in the budget of the Department of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e874	I believe that the quota market is a very, very important invention to achieve cost-effective and rapid business transitions and reductions. Without that, there's no prospect that we can cope with the climate cuts. I see no problem in Norway, like everyone else, acting on that quota market. However, the quota market has a limitation – possibly what Skovholt Gitmark wants to address – and it is that quotas and cost-effectiveness are good in the sense that the cheapest and simplest first thing is done. It is most effective, and it makes sense. But what is cost-effective is not quickly enough to bring forward the new technologies that we rely on to address global climate change. Without drastic improvement in technology, we can't do that. The new technology can only be obtained either by subsidising new technologies or by regulating the most advanced markets in Europe, North America, Japan and elsewhere. So I think we both have to go to new technology and take advantage of all the opportunities in the quota market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e881	The Christian People's Party believes that we need to use the financial crisis to turn this into a green opportunity, and then the development of renewable energy, the development of rail and the rehabilitation of public buildings with a focus on energy saving are important measures. But in 2007 we set Norway's record in climate emissions, a record that none of us should be proud of. Unfortunately, in 2008 we are not able to get a single climate quota. The representative of Nordtun was concerned in his statement that the Government has put new concepts on the agenda, including: over-fulfilment of the Kyoto Protocol by 10 pst. The Council of State is aware that it can be made easy by buying ourselves free by taking national action. With the career that the minister has had in his political life, we know that he wants to bet nationally. Will he now use this Norway record for a national bet, away from allowances and more work at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e888	The high emissions in 2007 were, of course, due to all the decisions taken under the Bondevik government, which provided the basis for the 2007 level. I think that kind of party political dispute is going to be pretty meaningless, but that was the basis for the emissions we had in 2007. The basis for which emissions we have a few years into the future is attached to the decisions that are now being made. It is not right that the government is unable to buy allowances, but we are very busy buying good and correct allowances, and that debate has come too short. The green development mechanism is a small child at its very first start — it is far from a perfect system, and it needs to be improved — and Norway should buy the right quotas. How we can now view the financial crisis as an opportunity to get both the right short-term investment in environmentally sound measures and the necessary long-term transformation of the economy in a greener direction is a huge and incredibly important issue. I am very pleased that the questioner brought it up in his main post, and hope to have a rich opportunity to come back and discuss it in the Storting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e897	Governments are concerned about which government option it shines the greenest. In climate policy, we are so lucky that we have the fasit. There, the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right were able to arrive at a much more ambitious arrangement than the SV managed to get together with the Center Party and the Workers' Party when they made the climate announcement. We reached far in the climate agreement, but we wanted to go even further, but we did not get the SV and the Workers' Party on that. The answer to the question asked by the Council of State is: It is totally inappropriate for the Left to sit in government with the Advance Party, among others. because they are not to have the hand on the steering wheel of climate policy. When the Council of State calls for such clear answers, I would like to have a clear answer in terms of oil and gas activity related to the West and Lofoten. Is it relevant for the Minister for the Environment to be in the position of a government opening up oil and gas activities outside the Lofoten and the West Pole?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e906	My question to the other opposition parties was not whether they could expect to sit in government with the Progress Party – because at least for the Left and for the Christian People's Party we have received a very clear response – but whether it was clear that the Progress Party should not have an influence on climate and environmental policy, and how, as a parliamentary basis, a party is much larger than itself, and should enter into that process, assuming that this party should not have any influence on an important political area. That's the challenge I've come up with, and I want to be answered. I was also not concerned about which government option is greenest, because that is proven to the degrees repressively in practice. The budget we are presenting today is miles above some of the environmental budgets that the Bondevik government was in charge of. During the Bondevik government there was complete stamina on the environmental budgets for four years. Now we've made a significant jump upwards. So if practice is the scale of who gets it, it speaks very clearly in one direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e913	And the question we're going to get back to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e918	The other thing I've answered before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e923	It is gratifying that the Council of State has begun to plan the electorate of the Progress Party in 2009. So do we. I am disappointed that the Council of State is talking for 5 minutes without being in the field of species protection, in addition to making the Right Budget laugh in that area. I therefore expect the Council of State to come back to it in a three-minute post. It is therefore in the committee's position that the majority believe it is important to maintain a high level of exploration activity and provide the industry with access to interesting exploration areas, without meeting any of the world's growing demand for oil and gas. In its first response to the national meetings of the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV, the Council of State pointed out. As far as I know, these are to be held in good time before Stortinget is informed about the projects called MAREANO and SEAPOP – in other words, with the same knowledge situation as today. Does this mean that the Council of State intends to completely ignore the majority of committees in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e930	Our view, which we have presented to the Committee in up to several letters, is that we will have a good decision-making basis through the material that is being developed, among other things. by MARANO. If that's not the case, of course, we're always prepared to look at this, see if we can get a stronger and better decision-making basis. The policy never stands still like that, but what we've been informed at this point in time is that we're going to have the sufficient basis on this basis. I would like to talk about species protection in the knowledge and the broad. If I am invited to make a longer post in Stortinget about it, there are few things that would please me more. Once again, one of the areas where species protection is important, and where we have a common commitment, is the wild axis. I intend to write a letter to the representative Lien on the questions asked earlier, including: about Salmon Barriers in Driva, as it appears that we can achieve in 2009. It will be an example of an area in which we can cooperate despite significant differences of opinion in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e941	This year's budget is the best that has ever been provided. This also applies to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and not least to the Ministry of Environment. Never before has the Ministry of the Environment been given such an increase as for 2009 — an increase of about 25 pst. This does not like the Progress Party and the Right, and they have reduced by 211 million in their alternative budgets, respectively. NOK 124 and SEK 124 million. kr. This budget provides opportunities for action in many areas. I am pleased that this government spends considerable money on the purchase and organisation of open air areas, so that the public gets a right to free movement. Outdoor life is directly health-threatening for many people. The other thing that's very important is taking care of our wild-tailed tribes. We are now in an important phase in the fight against the Gyrodactylus salaris parasite. The effort to maintain the wild has increased considerably during the current government. From 2006 to 2009, appropriations increased by 57 pst, about 50 million. kr, and finally we can start the fight against Gyro in the Weefsnavastre. Now, when I'm on the Weefsnavastre, it's important to clarify what protection in this area means for some of the municipalities concerned. In protecting the entire watercourse with impact fields plus the protection decisions taken, and those relating to forest protection on the land of the state, we have combined to protect the entire municipality of Grane – a municipality that lives on the natural resources. I hope in the future we can be more good at going in and watching what happens when we protect ourselves piece by piece and division. Here, I think we need an overall assessment, so we don't take away the basis of people's lives, so they're forced to move. The budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy is also a good budget. The whole committee writes in the setting that they're satisfied that there's 60 million set aside. kr for balancing the network tariff. This is a double, and the money goes entirely to consumers where the transmission costs of the distribution system are highest. This, together with many other measures, is good district policy from the current government. While I'm in the online system, I also want to mention the role of Statnett in society. Statnett SF is primarily responsible for the distribution of power in this country. In recent years, we have experienced both a lack of power and very different power prices from South to Middle and North Norway. This is a very unfortunate situation that we cannot continue with. It is therefore important that the deployment of wired networks is consistent with production and consumption. Some measures have been taken, and today Mid-Norway is no longer a separate price range. With the increased appropriations in the 2009 NVE budget, it is likely that many will look forward to a faster examination of all types of applications, including applications for networks. We cannot risk stopping renewable energy due to a lack of capacity in the network. The northern regions have been allocated more than 500 million. kr in different areas for 2009, including surveys in marine areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. Everyone is waiting for the results of the seismic, soil and bird studies. I hope these results can tell us that it is also possible there to operate the sustainable use of petroleum resources if they are propelling. Finally, I must mention the power problems of Traina, Værøy and Røst – it is in my state. At Training there are no opportunities for industrial development, nor for housing, without greater capacity in the power supply. This is not for living, neither for training nor for us. I know that the Council of State is working hard on this, and I assume that the solutions come – without the representative Gunnar Kvassheim's TV performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e960	I'm going to use most of my post to talk about the Ministry of the Environment's budget. However, let me begin by expressing disappointment at the fact that Mid-Norway and the power situation in Central Norway are not given very much focus in the oil and energy ministry budget. This clearly means that we are going into the 2009 election campaign with completely different power prices in Middle Norway than we had in 2005. Of course, it's a pity for Middle Norway, but it doesn't have to be a disadvantage for the Advancement Party. So to the Barents Sea Management Plan. The whole committee said about the management plan for the Barents Sea was that we should base knowledge-based management. The Progress Party cannot imagine opening up a single oilfield in Norway without a sound knowledge base. Once a unanimous committee and a unanimous majority have supported the principle of knowledge-based management of the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and the Barents Sea, it becomes paradoxical that at least three, if not four or five, of the parties to this process intend to conclude before the results of SEAPOP and MAREANO have been presented to the Storting. I find that paradoxical. I'm absolutely sure the advice we're going to get from the scientists is that we can't open everybody, but some of these sea areas. It's clear that this is what the Progress Party is waiting for, and that's what we're thinking, that something can be opened and something can't be opened – not as Solheim says, that we say yes to everything without having a real and good factual basis on the table. So a little bit about the basic principles of how the Progress Party approaches the Ministry of the Environment budget. Here it's consistency. I know that some of the representatives claim that there is no consistency in the Right Budget – that is what I expect them to comment on themselves – but in our budget it is. The Progress Party believes that active species management based on knowledge is the way to go. That is why we are strengthening the active protection of species by over 50 million. kr on different items. On the other hand, passive land protection is more skeptical, especially its scope. That's why we're reducing that entry. The party of progress is also skeptical to central government, which was also the centre party once, but it is obviously the end of it now. The Progress Party is in favour of local government, and therefore we are also adding more money at this point to the management of protection areas. For me, it is a huge paradox that the management of particularly important natural areas that are well-held by both the landowners and the population who use them should be managed from Oslo. There is hardly any municipality in Norway that has suffered as much loss of species diversity as Oslo, but it is therefore from the Oslo administration of Norwegian nature to be governed. It is a paradox for the Progress Party. In terms of protection, the level of protection is becoming a problem — not only that there is not enough money to manage the protection, but because the protection is threatening the resource base of the Norwegian forest industry. The government itself declares that they want 14 TWh more bioenergy. It equals 7 million cubic, or an increase of 60 pst. of the Norwegian forest cover. Where do you pick up this forest from if you want to protect all the forest in the same sling? But government needs more money. The Riksrevision has made a thorough determination of this. The natural diversity of some of the protected areas is under pressure and the quality of protection is under pressure. In addition, I believe it is important to strengthen local administration. There are signals coming from the Directorate of Nature Management in the opposite direction. I have read the same reports that the Directorate of Nature Management bases on its conclusion, and I think the Directorate must have read those reports that, if I can use that term, the hell reads the Bible. For both of these reports, it is strikingly clear that local government, such as the United Kingdom, is The Dovrejell council has been holding on, has a lot of good sides. Nevertheless, there is now talk of reducing the local administration of Norwegian protected areas, rather than going the wrong way, which we believe would have been an advantage. In my opinion, there is no doubt that local politicians and landowners are better able to manage these areas of protection than some bureaucrats, whether they are in Oslo or in Trondheim. So the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen said in his speech that the administration would be done in cooperation with the organisations. But what about local democracy and the landowners? Is it the case that local democracy and landowners should sit and watch NGOs, Erik Solheim and a whole bunch of bureaucrats from Trondheim and Oslo rule over these things? I'd like to challenge the Center Party to say something about that. I'm going to give Solheim a gift package. Breheimen is going to be protected during 2009 — if it is the year Solheim says it will be — or 2010. There's an excellent opportunity, because there's a great deal of excitement about most of the protection at the local level. Solheim, and his predecessor Helen Bjørnøy, had the ball – the ball was on the eleven-meter mark, but they chose to score for themselves instead. Now you have a new chance in Breheimen to say yes to voluntary protection and also to reward the strong, good natural environment in the municipality of Skåk, by telling them that now the state is coming and protecting the area in cooperation with you, and for that effort, dear local democracy and dear landowners, you get a natural guidance position under the direction of the SNO or others in connection with that protection. So we've served the government a gift package of the rare. Species protection is about a lot. We have mountain reefs, wild rain, Atlantic wild breeds, all of which are responsible for Norway. It is good that the Government is now increasing the focus on what I call knowledge-based active species protection. Unfortunately, that is not enough, but it will be done in the budget of the Progress Party. Then I want to analyze it with the mountain reef. The mountain reefs were almost wiped out when project Fjellrev started both in Sweden and Norway. Sweden has come quite a long way, and for once the Progress Party is very much for immigration, because the first immigration of wild mountain reefs from Sweden has come to Norway last year, which of course is very good. But the job isn't done. The breeding station at Oppdal still needs funds. The project in Varanger peninsula still needs funds. I believe that both the breeding and feeding of mountain reefs and the shedding of red reefs must be continued on a broad basis throughout the country. These are projects that cost money, and I will once again refer to the budget of the Progress Party, where this work has been strengthened. Last Thursday there was a great deal of agreement on the wild axis, at least on the objective. Eighty-eight million. Kr to liming is in fact a cut, which means that rivers remain in line to be treated. I remember that 15 pst. of all salmon fished in Norway each year are fished in a limed watercourse. So you would have liked to see, given the overall very large increase in the budget, that you could have also found a few million dollars to maintain the liming level. Then I am very pleased with the signals that the Council of State Solheim sends in connection with their answer to my question – which was not at all about Driving properly, but Driva will mark a beautiful day as the end of the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris. Gyro is the only threat that can eradicate Norwegian wilds, but we can eradicate Gyoren. The drive is going to be the last eleven being treated, and I have now been promised a letter from the State Council of Solheim. Then I can only confirm to Solheim that if I do not receive such a letter, the councillor Solheim must meet in the Questionnaire quite quickly after Christmas. In the case of the wild axis, it is threatened by several conditions. Today there is both a large article and a chronicle in the FiskeribladetFischeren on how the salmonnus is developing resistance to a wide range of control agents. This is a problem that we have to take seriously. You could say that to the State Council, Solheim. It is also necessary for the individual parties to communicate to the Minister for Fisheries, because what is pointed out in that article and in the chronicle that is in the Fiskerbladet Fishkaren today is that in a few years' time you can be faced with a choice between saying yes to farmed salmon or saying yes to wild salmon. It requires that we act now, because I don't think anyone in this room is prepared to say yes or no to wild salmon and farmed salmon. So for fence. It is the most important and far from the only instrument used by the Government in predator policy. In my opinion, garding is to take away those who use the field, centuries of rights, because when you try to fence out predators, you actually fertilize the sheep, and thus block the sheep from areas and areas that have been used for centuries. The right to a statewide outlaw is as old as the first Norwegian law, which is 800 years old. In addition, I think when you're going to build as many fences as you have to to keep 600 bears away from the sheep, it's going to be quite a natural attack. It's nature interference that the representative Thorkildsen, the representative Kvassheim, Lars Haltbrecken, Rasmus Hansson and a whole bunch of people would have protested out loud if there were anyone who could make money on it. But just because you use this huge natural intervention to block the bear in or out, or what you do, it's accepted. I find that very strange. Then I would just like to say briefly that I assume that it is due to a misunderstanding when the Right is not included in the proposal No. Nine and ten. I'm asking the Right to clarify it in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e996	The President would point out that the expression "who the hell reads the Bible" is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e999	As State Council Solheim highlighted, we are adopting today the desiderate best and most offensive environmental budget in Norway's history. We take note of increased efforts in many areas compared to the previous year's budget. Yes, there is a historical commitment to environmental action, not only to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, but through the budgets of a number of ministries, so that the total appropriations targeted at environmental action can be summarised in an increase of DKK 24.7 billion in 2008 to a total of DKK 30.6 billion in 2009. In the field of the environment and energy, I could mention dozens of key areas that are being strengthened. I'll give you some examples: the fight against climate change the fight against environmental pollutants a more environmentally friendly transport sector more renewable energy-enhancing research and CO2 capture and storage organisation for public and private purchases of climate allowances reinforced measures to preserve the natural diversity of powerful initiatives and measures to prevent the deforestation of wild caught species, which was mentioned here a moment ago, etc. The aim of a good environmental policy must be to take care of the environment and nature's peculiarity, to prevent environmental damage and to repair damage caused by nature and the environment, mainly by unwise human activity. We are getting a lot in Norway. The climate agreement was an example of genuine interest in helping to save the climate ahead of purely party-tactical considerations. We can be proud of such a promise. Although it is the role and privilege of the opposition to be critical and impatient, I get a little sad today when I hear – and as far as I have heard in the past – strong accusations that little and nothing is happening. That's not true. The figures in the Government's draft budget and in the vote are not lying. They tell a different story and give a different picture than the black sky that is described by more people here. We take seriously in this budget that we need to contribute to a strong reduction in climate change emissions in order to avoid the most serious impacts of climate change. Norway appears to be a leading country in the field of research and the organisation of CO2 capture and storage. We are also the most advanced country in providing funds for action against deforestation in developing countries. We are greatly increasing resources for the conversion of energy production and energy use in an environmentally friendly way. Through Enova, this effort is targeted. Spectacular and forward-looking is the work of the Government on a national strategy for power generation from, among others, sea windmills. Environmental research and monitoring are strongly strengthened. An increase to such climate action by a total of 129 million. kr has been very well received in many environments. There's a reason to mention 22 million in particular. kr to new centre of expertise for ice and climate at the Norwegian Polar Institute in Tromsø. I would like to stress the need to move forward with vigorous action in the transport sector, as it is responsible for about 25 p.m. of the total emissions in Norway. I just want to mention that we need to get stronger tools soon to get more of the freight from the way over to the ship. I am pleased that the appropriations for preserving the wild axis now make a good jump upwards. Gyro is one of the most serious threats to the wild species, where, among other things, the control strategy. consists of chemical treatment and fish barrier. I am, of course, pleased that increased appropriations can now mean that a very important salmon eel in my home district, Driva, can be considered as early as 2009, and I am pleased with the Minister's letter to the Committee which confirms this. Then I will finally express how important it is that during the year we have got a clarification about a relapse. The decision in Stortinget ensured official control of and management of values for hundreds of billions of dollars. It is helping to ensure future welfare development in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1052	The climate picture is far from as pink as the previous speaker wants to make us believe. The world's CO2 emissions are increasing, so are the Norwegians. We see that what goes with it, unfortunately, is only the red-green rhetoric. It is regrettable that Norway is helping to increase the EU's total CO2 emissions by 13.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, by selling allowances for more than DKK 2.5 billion, which is then used, among others. the increase in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. We have a government with a prime minister at the head who boasts of the government's over-fulfilment of the Kyoto Protocol. What the government is doing is buying cheap quotas in China and selling them expensive in the EU. It's a good store, but it's far from good climate policy. The deletion of allowances in the EU results in tangible measurable cuts by reducing available allowances. Total emissions in the ETS sector are directly determined by the number of allowances available, since the EU, unlike China, has a cap on its emissions. Let me then switch to the car charges and link a few comments to them. We have again seen a lack of willingness from the Government to go to work forcefully to look at the total car charges. The car charges per car today is to a large extent the coin of small changes, not least within a desire to withdraw as much money as possible from the state, and not to contribute to people buying safe and more environmentally friendly cars. On the right, we want a full review of the entire charging system, and we need to put it in place now, so that we can, for example, are ready to accept the plug-in hybrids when they enter the Norwegian market, most likely late next year or in 2010. With today's charging system, such a car will be unattainable to everyone, most of them. In fact, we need a completely different view of environmental tax policy – that it should contribute more to increasing environmental behaviour and not, as today’s government unfortunately on a case-by-case basis seems to be concerned with, solely contributing to a large proceeds to the state. In this way it will already be recorded that it would be a good idea to increase the current environmental component, while removing both weight and horsepower as components of the one-off fee. Let me also say that for the Right, it is a very clear wish that the public should also take part in the bill to build up charging stations for plug-in hybrids throughout the country. Let me also mention in transport that it is gratifying that a closest co-ordinated magnification wants to go further with the idea of a high-speed rail. I think that if we're ever going to get rid of air traffic in South Norway, or get it significantly reduced, we need trains that transport people effectively from where people live, to the workplace, and also between the biggest cities with a travel time similar to today's air traffic. It'll outrun planes, and it'll be a real alternative to a car. That's what the Right is calling investing in the future. Let me also make a few comments to the representative Sande's statement on both small-scale power plants and green certificates. One has a leader of the Small Forces Association who emphatically gives clear notice that the expansion that is now taking place is not because of the Government, but despite the Government. It should be taken over by the representative Sande and see that we have an enormous potential in small-scale power plants, even in our two districts that have not yet been triggered – because of this government, unfortunately. We have a government that scared the water of the same industry by multiple tax increases, which fortunately now has been reversed. Let me also say in relation to green certificates that it was precisely the opposition that forced the government to right – I would say fortunately. Let me end by saying that the proposals are No. 9 and 10, which the Tord Lien of the Advance Party referred to in his article, is something for which the Right stands. We're also going to support them in the vote afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1082	First of all, I would like to say that I find it interesting to sit here and listen to the debate. One teacher something all the time, not least today, since we've learned a new way of budgeting: when the Progress Party cuts 200 million. SEK in transfers to the Energy Fund and SEK 330 million. kr for research and even has an overall budget cut of 940 million within the Ministry of Oil and Energy. kr, so it's not to call it cut! We must then take knowledge from previous year's budgets to understand what the Progress Party really means. This is a completely new budgetary method, which is quite interesting in that respect. It's impossible to discuss with such a party. There is no doubt that this is a good budget we are now discussing. The historical environmental perspective has been mentioned several times, including in the field of oil and energy. But I want to address some specific issues. First to our electricity grid. We were right in Stortingen last week, but I want to mention it again, because I think it is a very important topic. First of all, we are concerned that investment incentives are increasing in relation to the network. We see that there are clear challenges ahead of us, not least in terms of bringing in new renewable electricity around the country. Similarly, there are major challenges in the relationship between networks, production and consumption. These challenges make us face quite significant investments in the future. Transferred to the cost picture of consumers today, where, in the 2009 budget, we also provide a balance grant of 60 million. kr in order to balance the greatest injustices, it is good, but there are also challenges associated with it. I think it's going to be hard to find a good system of income regulation for our network system. We must take the investment into account, and I also believe that we need to take much more nationally into account the scattered geography and the scattered settlement we have after all in this country. We also see that areas with a lot of new production are heavily burdened on the network when new production is being developed. We've been in Training as an example of an island community that can't build up its net capacity precisely on the basis of it. These are challenges that lie there. Then we see from the budgetary remarks that the Right Party, and in particular the Advance Party, will have the lowest possible network rental. It's an illusion to believe and imagine that, in a future perspective that I feel is a whole big deal behind us, we're going to be able to meet the challenges ahead of us, with a grid rental at today's level. It will have to increase, we will have to meet those challenges. In fact, I don't think the Right Party and the Advance Party recognize that in the challenging time we're going into. Then I am very happy that we have strengthened the concession treatment in NVE, and I am very pleased with the press release we received today, which says that county councils can now deal with concessions up to 1 MW. Then Ketil Solvik-Olsen gets mad because the government actually makes it the Advance Party and the Right has asked for in a proposal today. We have never rejected the possibilities, but we have thought carefully about this matter, and we clearly write in our remark that we want ‘additional measures’. But the appearance of being angry because a government is fulfilling what they're actually asking for today is, with respect to reporting, a rather strange way of acting. So to the last topic I'm going to address, infrastructure for the transport of gas, an important project that the whole Stortinget wants to realize, Skanled, a gas pipeline to Grenland and on to Sweden, Denmark and Poland. The opposition is promoting a proposal for State guarantees for the separation plant, last year a state grant was being given to enter the owner’s side of the pipe – it is constantly turning around. But there is no evidence to say that someone has required a State guarantee. There is a very unresolved question, and most likely there are other instruments that are needed to realise the project. The most important thing right now is to ensure that gas contracts are concluded so that one can realise both the pipe and the separation plant. Then there is no doubt that StatoilHydro has a considerable responsibility, and I would also like to say from this speaker that I have a hope that StatoilHydro understands and sees that there is a total accumulation that wants to realise the project, and that they will not let it go entirely unnoticed. They have stated that those markets are not liquid. I think that's worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1099	The EU is in the process of adopting its renewable directive these days. Norway will normally decide on the Directive when it is adopted. It is important for Norway that the EU has high ambitions to increase its share of renewable energy. Norway has a good starting point in terms of renewable share. While the EU is about to adopt 20 pst. in 2020, we start on a renewable share of about 60 pst. That doesn't mean we can rest on our laurels. As EU countries themselves must have, Norway will also need to have a discussion with the Commission on how to implement the renewable directive if it is to be adopted by Norway. I am committed to increasing the production of renewable energy in Norway in the future, both in order to achieve the Government's objectives in climate policy and in order for the EU to achieve its objectives in the renewable directive. We need to do structural measures that will facilitate the use of future energy solutions. It's about energy conversion, it's about energy efficiency improvement, it's about how we build our homes, our business buildings, our schools, our hospitals, and how we heat them up. It's about how industry uses its facilities and develops processes that are energy efficient. We need to build infrastructure that facilitates renewable heat and the use of bioenergy. Then we're going to build out renewable power. Norway is fortunate to have access to natural resources in this way. Renewable resources have been dispersed and the power has to be brought forward through powerlines involving significant interference in nature. We have to build wind power, but we have to remember that the wind turbines will be very visible in the terrain. We're going to build small-scale power plants, but we can't expand all the basins. For just these reasons, the work of the NVE in the field of renewable energy will be strengthened in the next year’s budget. NVE has been working in the last few years to improve the effectiveness of the procedure. The number of wind and hydrotreated items is increasing. The 2009 budget will allow for strong growth in the number of annual works in concession treatment. During 2009, the concession treatment capacity of the NVE will be doubled compared to 2005. In addition, the Government has also decided and presented today that the concession treatment of micro and mini-power plants below 1 MW is to be extended to the county with the regional NVE offices as case handlers. By doing so, we are making three flies in one taste – the expansion of renewable energy should be even more effective, business development is being taken care of in the districts, while following up the Government's objectives of strengthening the county council and general decentralisation within the political system. Energy conversion is about expanding renewable energy and using it with accuracy. It's all about constantly developing new solutions and technologies. We are systematically focusing on energy conversion. The initiative is long-term, and although we are impatient, it is important to stick to the policies and objectives. For the period 2001 to 2007, Enova has delivered an energy result of more than 10 TWh. Over half of this is energy efficiency improvement, and it's also in relation to energy efficiency improvement we get the most back for the money. During this period, 3.3 TWh of hydropower has been developed. The government has a significant commitment to renewable energy. We have established a basic renewable energy fund and energy efficiency improvement. We turned off NOK 10 billion in 2007. We're going to put $10 billion in next year's budget. The long-term investment in energy conversion is more than double since we took over. We are committed to providing the Base Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Improvement further up to NOK 10 billion by 2012. We are also discussing cooperation on a green certificate market with Sweden. It will provide a boost to renewable energy production, but we must not forget that energy efficiency is what will deliver the highest and most reasonable results in this area. Then, of course, there will be countries that can have schemes in individual areas that go beyond the schemes we have in Norway in the field of renewable energy. However, drawing a picture of Norway as a delay in renewable efforts is – with respect to reporting – wrong. We have an agreement with Enova that they will deliver energy results of 18 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement by the end of 2011. It's all but being retarded, and I'm going to have a lot of attention in the future to the achievement of these objectives. CO2 management is a key element of a trend towards lower greenhouse gas emissions. If we succeed in a broad international implementation of CO2 management technologies, we will be able to achieve significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in the critical phase until the transition from fossil fuel use to increased renewable energy use. For 2009, the government is proposing nearly 2 billion kroner for this work. Success in achieving large-scale capture and storage of CO2 is a major challenge. CO2 capture technologies are still untapped on a larger scale – including worldwide. That is why we need more research, more development and more experience. To get this to support the Government, among others. through Gassnova, focusing on technology development, and we provide framework conditions that contribute to the development of new, robust CO2 management solutions in the industry’s interest. We are not aiming at realising the solutions to reduce CO2 emissions from fossil energy production either in Norway or in the rest of the world, but we are doing concrete work, and we want to realise projects that can help us take important steps forward. It is through such efforts and not by constantly assessing new and alternative plans that we can find solutions in time for the broad application of CO2 capture and storage technologies. In addition to showing the way we are doing at home, we must also help to maximise the international uptake of the development and use of CO2 management. The government has therefore drawn up an action plan and is actively promoting the acceptance, development and use of CO2 management internationally. It is important to accept the capture and storage of CO2 as a necessary and safe technology to reduce CO2 emissions. For the Government, therefore, political support for schemes that can ensure the financing of CO2 management projects is important also in developing countries. The petroleum sector is Norway’s main industry. It accounts for about one quarter of the value added in Norway and the sector’s contribution to the total income of the country is estimated at DKK 425 billion this year, or more than one third of the country’s total income. Petroleum activity and its revenues are sensitive to oil price developments. In the past 12 months, oil prices have moved from USD 90 per month. in December last year to close to USD 150 per year. Get in July, and now we see that the price is less than USD 50 per year. barrel. We didn't expect $150 per. barrel as a price level that would last, but we had also not believed that the price would fall as low as what we see today. It is largely related to the financial crisis and the economic crisis that many parts of the world are now facing. The financial crisis and the development of oil prices could also have an impact on the activity on the socket. We've had and currently have a high level of activity, but it's too early to say how the financial crisis and the uncertain economic situation will affect the company's budgets and plans for next year and the years after. High oil price makes it possible to get more out of our resource base. A high level of activity on the cap is necessary to maintain our petroleum production. We see that oil production is on a falling trend, while we expect a continued increase in gas production. A process of production in line with our estimates is demanding and requires a high and constant focus on this sector by the authorities. So I'll say a little bit about anti-slip prevention. Skred is currently a significant risk where people live and travel in Norway. In addition, the risk of climate change is expected to increase. This is a natural hazard that we will have to deal with. The challenges in case of an emergency may be too great for municipalities to deal with alone. We are now clearing up this area and bringing together state aid to prevent steps under the NVE. The overall model of the NVE for the prevention of floods and erosion has been developed into an effective and appropriate management model. This is now also extended to other types of steps. The NVE regional offices will play a central role in the implementation of this work. The Committee points out in its opinion that the Government should consider building up competence at one of the NVE regional offices. We focus on integrating the work on steps with other activities in the NVE, in particular on the work on flood prevention. It is important that work is carried out as far as possible in the regions. It is therefore decided to establish a research and dissemination unit at the Regional Office of Förde. This will help to strengthen the NVE’s capacity to step up and improve assistance to municipalities. This is in addition to a new section of the water resource department at the NVE headquarters and a strengthening of the other regional offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1180	The Council of State said that the petroleum industry is Norway's main industry. I fully agree with that. That's why it's very sad that it's being voiced. This is what we saw in the Political Quarter last week, where three representatives of the Red-Green Greens have completely broken down, and we have seen this in today's debate, in which the Minister for the Environment ignores majority comments because he should rather look at national opinions. But it is all the more important that someone from the Government has a clear strategy on this. When you look at the development of petroleum-related research, it goes wrong. Norway has come a long way on the petroleum side because we have had good knowledge environments. We have developed a supplier industry, and we have developed oil companies that research a lot. We've developed technological solutions that allow one to extract fields that are further offshore and deeper into water, and smaller fields, and it's still profitable. Then my question is, when a cutter in this research, and it gives a wrong signal, how does the Council of State think that one could secure Norway as a technology leading petroleum nation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1189	I fully agree that research in the petroleum industry is important. Then I'm not going to underestimate any $10 million of research activity in government budgets. Nor shall I underestimate the fact that we have made a choice in the Government and among the red-green parties on the Stortinget in prioritising research on renewable energy, through the draft budget that now seems to be adopted here in the Stortinget today. We also have an allocation and a commitment within carbon capture and storage that is historically high. So it's a priority that underlies it. I believe it is completely wrong to draw the conclusion that it means that there is no control, not plan, not ambition in Norwegian petroleum management. We've put out the 20th concession round. We have received a lot of response. Many companies have shown interest. It is well thought in the petroleum environment that the Norwegian sector is an interesting place to be in the future, and my obvious ambition is that it will also be the future situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1199	While the central bank manager today notes that some interest-rate settlements are not accelerating, we have recorded today that the Minister for the Environment is talking about linking the financial crisis and the climate crisis more closely together. It's a point of view to which the Right fully joins. The Council of State was not here at any time, and there is a lot of evidence that today's government is not acting much faster than the governor. Here a package is ready, estimated at the end of January/beginning of February. Does today's government have any plans to link the financial crisis with taking some strong initiatives and speeding up the long, long line of clear renewable energy production projects ahead of us? What are the projects that may be presented in such a package at the end of January?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1213	I would assume that the representative Kristiansen inside both knows and believes that taking a discussion in the Stortinget today about what concrete measures the Government will present in a few weeks, is not very topical. We are now in a phase in which we assess which measures will have the highest impact on employment, which measures are rapidly feasible. We have to do that first, before we start to specify what measures it is that correspond to those assumptions. Then I fully agree with the representative Kristiansen that looking at the possibilities to bring forward the new power, the new energy, get projects in the green sector in terms of energy, but also other connections, are right and positive and something we should try to achieve. But to go into concrete projects now I don't want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1220	The council says he'll increase the investment in renewable energy, and he won't rest on his laurels. He's talking about energy conversion, energy use, including energy use in construction, and about all the ways -- there's a lot of how questions. As the Council of State knows, we want a potential study to be able to identify more and not just one way to say ‘how’. My question this time I want to include in the field of renewable energy. In the climate agreement, we said that if the scheme of green certificates did not come into place by 1 July 2008, the government would come to Stortinget with a proposal for the conversion of the scheme that would be of the same size as the green certificate scheme. Does the Council of State believe that the Government has provided such a scheme? I ask the Council of State not to talk about the roof for wind power, because I have had enough of answers from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1229	It is nice that the answers given are actually received in the reply correspondence here in Stortinget. However, when I comment on wind power, it is because it is in the area that the difference has been greatest in relation to ambitions and costs associated with getting the projects started. With regard to the other areas, Enova – because the situation has to be like this – has more of an opportunity itself, within the framework of which they have, to provide support that makes the projects profitable. That is why we also see that Enova has a large portfolio of applications. They have more projects than they have the means to use, and that should be the case. Enova can carry out an assessment related to the development of the most profitable projects. I record that the representative Holten Hemdal will not hear the word «wind power» in this context, but there is a reason why it has been mentioned earlier – because that is where we changed the ceiling on support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1238	It has become known that the Ministries of the Ministry of Oil and Energy have chosen to resign. The background shall be stock trading which also includes oil-related companies. Given that these are the facts, it might be interesting to hear how the Council of State will follow up this matter. Will it lead to improved routines? Can the Council of State confirm that all realities will be clarified, which company is involved, and what has been the outcome of the trade in question? And does the Council of State, in the wake of this case, see the need to clear up the portfolio of the Department, so that one gets a clearer distinction between the ownership role and the role of government that the Ministry has?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1243	The particular issue that the representative Kvassheim here mentions, and that I expect there is an understanding that I don't want to go into very concretely, of course updates the question of guidelines, arm's length distance, etc. I just want to say very briefly that when this matter has become known, it is about a desire not to have any connection. It's not based on the fact that there are individual things that we're familiar with per. today as necessary. But to the question, I think the most important thing here is general practice and focus on guidelines. I have therefore started a work in this area. So the answer to the question from the representative is yes, I want to go through this and make sure that the outside world is safe that we have proper routines, and that there is no mix of roles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1250	The government has announced a target of 14 TWh new renewable bioenergy. As I was in my post, it's about 7 million m3 of biomass from Norwegian forest. This is an increase of approx. 60 pst. of today's withdrawals. I assume that a measure of Norwegian raw material is also taken into account. Certification scheme is one thing, but to get not only a safe environmental impact, but also to be sure that this is sustainable, I assume that it is a goal that at least most of the majority will be extracted from Norwegian raw material. But you can barely manage to extract so much forest without significantly more new forest roads, which you in the government know I have a certain resistance to. So my question is quite specific: what does the government intend to do to make sure that you get the 7 million m3 of forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1263	Since I changed from being Minister of Agriculture to becoming Minister of Oil and Energy in June, I have a certain feeling that this question should be answered by the person who has taken over the job I had before, even though my interest in the subject area is great. I think we should be able to achieve more bioenergy. We see today that the potential is not being realised, and that there is too little impact on the growth that we see in Norwegian forests. So we have a lot to go on. I think we should take out the potential that we see is there, before we start to problematize around how we might encounter new barriers. We also have a potential in relation to straw and other non-utilised waste in agriculture. As of today, I think we should focus on the opposite of what Lien's representative has, and that is to exploit the potential that is actually there, that is untapped.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1270	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1273	The financial crisis has pushed the climate crisis downwards on the international agenda. It is a challenge at a time when the climate is on-going in Poznan, and when there is only one year left for the Copenhagen meeting – that is the meeting where the world will agree on a new climate agreement. It's going to be a destiny in a lot of ways. It is absolutely essential that we be able to see the financial crisis and the climate crisis as symptoms of one of the same – of a speculative economy that does not have the power to take into account people and people's livelihoods. Globally, a new Bretton Woods is being discussed to take control of financial markets, and how the crisis can open up opportunities to provide sustainable content to the economy. We need leadership, and Norway has its role to play in it. The Norwegian rainforest initiative could not have come at any better time. The main motivation is, of course, the enormous reductions in greenhouse gas emissions we want to achieve through such an initiative, but it is so important that the confidence building of the forest project contributes between countries in the north and in the south, in a setting where the confidence crisis is almost total and where the progress of the international climate negotiations is absolutely crucial. I am extremely proud of the climate agreement and what the budget presents at this point. Several have pointed to the seriousness that Norwegian CO2 emissions have increased in the last year, after starting to go down so slightly. We all know that there are problems at the Snow White plant that are the main cause of it, but there is every reason to consider that while some sectors, among others. The mainland industry, having managed to achieve large emission reductions, has a problem both in the transport sector and on Norwegian soil, where emissions have almost doubled since 1990. We have a cross-political responsibility for this, and we need a cross-political agreement that climate considerations must have a more central place in the administration of Norwegian Sockets. We are going in the right direction when the operators are obliged to investigate electrification in connection with all new developments. In the budget statement, the majority emphasises the crucial role of renewable energy and energy efficiency in achieving our climate policy objectives. When the sitting government took over in 2005, it was a sad chapter. Over this period, the allocations to Enova have almost doubled, and renewable energy has a completely different focus than before. Then you can sometimes get the impression, when you hear the opposition debate, that the bet through Enova is just customs, and that we don't see results – «live on Enova's grace» the representative Holten Hemdal called it, as if it were a fate worse than death. If you are interested in and want to see the results – now it does not seem that everyone is – they are easy to discover. Over the period 2002-2007, Enova has delivered results of more than 10 TWh. In the same period, more than 3.3 TWh of hydropower has been built. So that's equal to 11 pst. of the total electricity consumption in Norway in one year. Of course, there is something to say for Norwegian security of supply and for Norwegian power balance. Then we all work with the goal of getting a common Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates in place as quickly as possible. An understanding and a timetable were presented together with the Swedes in June this year. That's good. However, I would like to stress the importance of the process of the EU's renewable directive moving quickly and without squeezing, and that Norway is on the offensive and is willing to take on ambitious commitments. We need more power, we need it to be renewable, and we need to put in place the renewable directive to ensure further progress with the green certificates. The budget now being presented represents a formidable boost to the work of bio-diversity. So far, land changes and direct intervention have been the biggest threat to Norwegian nature. Climate change will change that picture. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has estimated that between 20 p.m. and 30 pst. the species of the world are at risk of extinction as a result of climate change. It will have consequences for our ecosystems that we do not have an overview of at all. I am extremely pleased that we are now getting the new species project that will provide us with new and completely necessary knowledge of the Norwegian diversity of species. This is a project to be anchored in the Art Database, which has become increasingly important for the knowledge-based management of Norwegian nature. We also need to put in place a new red list in 2010, and we need to strengthen work on action plans for endangered species, among other things. In general, I want to say that we're now getting a solid lift of 25 pst. in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, with all its implications for small and large-scale projects. The most joyous thing is that this increase is not a result of short-term bets and project funds, but it's the start of a long-term bet. The ambitions of environmental policy are great, and this budget gives the environment a very long-term boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1298	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1301	It has been known for a long time that the power supply to Værøy, Røst and Traina has a great lack of capacity. It's not the world economy that's been cracking up today's jobs, it's the power cables that have been out of date a long time ago. The capacity for training is so poor that all developments in the busy island municipality are about to stop. The corner stone company Modolv Seeset Pelagic has on several occasions had to stop the company due to a lack of power. When the company is in the peak season, the loss is estimated at NOK 100000 per year. day(s) The company needs a new freezer store, but when one already relies on three diesel units at the company's expense to keep production going, a storage representative also understands that the freezer store has to wait. A planned new swimming pool cannot be built and a finished residential area with 20 plots cannot be used due to power shortage. New cables for all three islands are socio-economically very profitable, but if industry is to cover ordinary construction contributions to the necessary network capacity, costs will be very unprofitable for the economy. This was to be sorted out by today's government parties already in 2005. They asked when the Government would ensure that from 2006 it would be possible to make a contribution to the transmission of electricity to the communities of Værøy, Røst and Train. On subsequent questions from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim, the Minister for Oil and Energy at that time replied that she was aiming for political clarification for the budget procedure for the autumn. But ‘the answer is blowing in the wind’, or where it is now located. If these creative communities are to find a solution to their power needs, they must create a gap between the power plant, the county and the state. The proposed solution proposed by the positioning parties in 2005 which the opposition has reminded several times in retrospect must now be put in place. The government is flagging the Northern Territory bet of the times. In the case of the Nordic countries, it cannot even be counted as buttons and glossy images of what has come to date. Therefore, this is a golden opportunity for the red-greens to refer to the North-Area bet and spend funds there, so that these three coastal municipalities can see a hope for the power supply to come into place. It is sad that after eight years of supply problems no solution has yet been found. Finally, I would like to ask that the solution to the challenges of Værøy, Røst and Traina comes as part of the announced action package against increased unemployment, promised early in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1318	The National Park Centre on Skinnarbu is a telecommunications site where it is located high and free and with a magnificent view of beautiful Hardangervidda. Since Norway is the only country in Europe that has intact high mountain ecosystems with wild rain, responsibility for managing our wild rain becomes great. It is therefore good that there is agreement to continue to bet on Hardangervidda Villreincenter. However, I wish there had also been an agreement on the amount of the money that was granted. While the government's stakes are 5.5 million. NOK for a wild reset, extend right to SEK 6 million. kr. The exhibition, which will be made of international format and disseminate key knowledge and attitudes on environmental issues, has a total cost of 24 million. kr. According to the government's statement, tourism is one of five industries, and the Norwegian natural and cultural landscape is the main source of experiences. It should suggest that the Government grant more from the state. For the municipality of Tinn, an attractive wild recreation position at the National Park Centre is very important. Dissemination of experiences and knowledge about the wilderness, ecology and environmental challenges will be important for developing and investing in increased tourism. It needs tin, and the government knows it very well. The government is well aware that the municipalities of Rjukan and Tinn are in an extremely difficult situation, with a population decline that threatens the basis for welfare provision and infrastructure. This is due to Hydro's closures in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. As late as 2006 it was said by the Department that all the tools that were possible to strengthen the Tin Society were to be used. However, this has not happened big, after almost four years of red-green government. Five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five. kr to the wild reindeer and exhibition is a step on the road, but is too small a bet in the broad context. Here the government has to take hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1329	The power situation in Central Norway has called for the attention of the Committee, and rightly so. Under a separate heading, all lots have been pronounced in annotations. I am therefore very surprised to note that the red-green batches are only concerned with ensuring the transfer capacity and possibly the reintroduction of the price range in Central Norway to improve this situation. No one disagrees that it is necessary to do something about the transfer capacity, both to and within the region, but it is that things take time. Full insurance with regard to import capacity does not take place until 2012 at the earliest. However, even then, areas with significant and important energy-intensive industries will suffer a power shortage. There is therefore an urgent need, above all, to stimulate the development of new power generation in the area, and this should be done in the form of renewable energy. It is reassuring that the Government does not have the power to break the vicious circle that is operating in relation to speeding up the development of renewable power generation. Clear statements have been made, including: from the NVE and the Government, that Mid Norway has to lean heavily on wind power if new power generation is to be expanded. Subsidy of gas power in central Norway is no longer applicable and state-run industrial power contracts are also excluded. Energy from renewable sources is the only means of ensuring the area of competitive electricity prices. NVE has signaled priority for Middle Norway in terms of concessional treatment. It is therefore regrettable that the Government has not helped to ensure a predictable renewable power generation aid scheme. However, wind power generation which has been granted a concession must, through a new approach at Enova, be non-guaranteed aid. A qualification requirement for Enova is a network connection. Several important wind power projects in central Norway lack such network connectivity. Statnet has signaled that the deployment of networks, if the concessions are granted, is nevertheless not guaranteed, if it is not guaranteed that sufficient wind power will be deployed. Thus, expansion cannot be guaranteed without support. In addition, it may also require developers to bear the costs of network deployment. This means that builders are squeezed between two state actors, which are not coordinated. This is the vicious circle that makes the builders not move on. This circle has to be broken. Norway has the most optimal natural conditions for establishing renewable power generation. The Christian People's Party, with the support of the Left, has pointed this out in its note, and I refer to this note, where we have gathered three main points, which can be read in the setting. I just want to end by stressing that we are now in overtime with regard to starting renewable power generation. Each kilowatt-hour renewable power that is not produced results in greenhouse gas emissions. As long as we deal with doing this, it leads to unnecessary emissions of millions of tons of CO2. Future generations will reproach us if we don't act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1345	Robbery policy is both about how many predators we are going to have, about where they are going to be, and, not least, about what we can do in the form of remedial measures. In addition, it is about the quality of life of those living in the districts who get their way, for example. a predatory zone over its head. Living and living in the pact with nature and then getting it so dramatically transformed, can't be replaced by money. From harvesting and living with nature’s possibilities, e.g. in the form of holding buffs and/or going hunting, to have this completely destroyed or severely reduced, is difficult to replace. To have predators, such as wolf and bear, walking outside the nursery, as it is, for example. Some places in Hedmark, do not create relocation, which we sorely need. I am amazed at the fact that the Central Party of the District Party cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party here today, when they support the inhabitants in the election campaign and say no to predators. It is not easy to see that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1352	I thought I'd take the floor on a topic that almost hasn't been mentioned in this debate, and it surprises me pretty much, because there's been a great commitment to the project pipelines to Grenland in the past. I also noticed that the representative of Aasland commented on the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party for a State guarantee to the separation plant, that no one had asked for it. That's what I thought I deserved a comment, because my experience in that area is that it is. Many actors are calling for action from the Government in this matter. I remember the big commitment that Brustad and the Workers' Party already showed in 2003, when they wanted to go in with NOK 3 billion for the project, so they've ended up talking a lot over a long time and no clarification. I can also draw up a notice in Telemarksavisa on 9 October 2006, where the representative Aasland just demands ‘Immediate gas pipeline action’. Let me quote: ‘We need to find out about the ownership structure during the year, and the government needs to notify state participation,’ says Lien Aasland. It was in 2006. In the meantime, it has been investigated and investigated and investigated, but no commitments have been made in the case of the gas pipe. It may be that there is one actor lacking in that project, namely the state. It may be that with state participation we can set up agreements in Sweden, Poland and Denmark. We may also be able to provide funding for the necessary separation facility with State participation. It could be that with state participation, we can shorten the current process, which is planning, planning, planning. I wonder that in projects that are doomed to go in the negative, which are condemned to lose billions of money, the government is involved, but when it comes to projects that will be profitable, but that need the one triggering factor, the government is passive. I wish there was more action on the part of this government. And I think at least the government parties are going to be too good to ridicule opposition proposals, which actually want to do something, which actually want to expand gas infrastructure, and which actually also want to use 10 pst. of domestic value added natural gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1370	There is no doubt that the Central Party and the Advance Party have some common positions on predatory policy and that we also agree with the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote. But unlike the Advancement Party, we are committed to making political progress. When we went to government three years ago with the Workers' Party and SV, we got at least a majority to make improvements in predatory policy. In the last period, when the Progress Party was one of the government's supporting parties, predatory policies went only one way — wrong. During this period, at least we have been able to increase the appropriations for prevention, from 30 million. DKK to over 90 million. kr, to help people in their life situation. It doesn't help to be clean and neat if you don't take people's situation seriously, and try to help. That's what we've been trying to do, and we've got the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on at least looking at what challenges people have. Unfortunately, until now only the Centre Party and the Advance Party have a different – and clear – view of predatory policy. Then at least it's important that we, like the parties that are concerned with people's woe and well, contribute as much as we can. Then it is very touching to listen to the representative of Bredvold, who is talking about grazing and buffing – that kind of industry – when we see that the Progress Party in the Nutrition Committee is proposing to cut the agricultural appropriations by NOK 6.5 billion. What industry will be most affected? Well, it's just the outing industry, which is highly dependent on support. It would obviously be very conflict-absorbing, because you would cut out the grazing animals. In this way, the conflict would be gone. But it is not credible at all when the representative, Mr Bredvold, stands here and is so concerned about an industry that he was in the process of the previous budget and voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1379	First of all, I must thank the representative Fostervold for the strong and sincere commitment he shows to the undersigned. I think it's a total big deal that wants to realize the Skanled project. There is also a broad majority in this Chamber to increase the domestic use of gas within the environmental obligations we have. As you can see, Skanled is very good, because it also has a significant environmental perspective in it. What I said in my introduction earlier today, about the State guarantee for a separation plant such as the opposition, among other things. The party involved, in proposing, was precisely on the basis of the fact that it is completely unclear what the stakeholders in the separation plant actually need from contributions. It has not been clarified at any point – at least I am familiar with it, and I think I am reasonably well up-to-date on the project – and the warranty request has not been made. On the other hand, other possibilities are considered. Some of what Ineos, the owner of the separation plant, has signaled outwards, is that they may need an actor in addition to themselves as owner of the separation plant. But it has not yet been finally clarified in the processes that are taking place, in connection with the Skanled project. Then it was referred to what has been the Workers' Party's involvement earlier. Yes, but then the project was something completely different. The representative Foster violence must have passed by the house. For 2003, in 2005 — late autumn 2005 — and in early 2006 it began to be clarified that this gas pipeline was to be passed on to Sweden and Denmark, with branches to Poland, and it was becoming a completely different project from what we were talking about in the first phase. I therefore have a very good conscience for what I have said and expressed in connection with this project. I am absolutely sure that the project with the government we now have, with the wish to possibly contribute and keep it under observation, will land well, provided that there are gas buyers, and provided there are co-investors in that pipe. I would like to conclude by saying that it is essential to conclude contracts for the purchase of gas in order to realise the project, both the pipe and the separation plant, which are essential for the success of that industrial project. Then it is that StatoilHydro sits with a significant key. They are sitting with an option on Norwegian gas equivalent to 80 pst. of the volume to go into that pipe. So I hope that StatoilHydro helps, together with the actors, to get those gas contracts in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1392	We also discussed predators last Thursday. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, said that they were there to get through. He is also trying to attack the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. Then I must say that the previous Minister of Agriculture we had in this country is present here today. He is today oil and energy minister, but he had an important vision, and that was to strengthen the field industry. Each year, 1 400 new non-agricultural non-agricultural industries can be set up in Norway. Now it's still the Center Party that controls the Ministry of Agriculture. Yet, 3,000 annual works a year. It's not the Progress Party that's behind this, it's the Center Party that's doing it. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, says they're here to get through. Yeah, where? Is there any impact on the damage case of the Centre Party? Wages and salaries for the victims are about getting a wage while you're on a mission for the state to shoot predators. If you're on a job for eight days, you get paid, but if you're on a job for six and a half days, you don't get paid. Is that where the Center Party has been put through? Or is it in terms of emergency services, emergency services, the Central Party has been put through? They have ensured that the bear and wolf are kept outside the new emergency protection provision and that the emergency protection provision shall not apply to the dog. As I was in on the last Thursday, a well-trained hunting dog can first be worth tens of thousands of dollars, and it is also a family member. The centre section ensures that dogs are not included in the new emergency guard section. But an area where the Center Party has had penetration is fences. You have to build fences around the entire country of Norway. High and large fences are major natural interventions that deprive the right of grazing of the right to use the land they have used for up to 800 years. But it's good that the Center Party has got one point through – even if they don't get through to the right everyone. It's not often you can stand on this pulpit and know that you're right, but I know that I'm right when I say that when the majority of this magnificence in more or less awake state proposed to introduce a target of 15 documented bear rivets a year, it might seem to desktop riders and the nodule and more or less informed staging representatives. But when in retrospect, today, it is clear that 15 documented bear nests will lead to a population of between 400 and 600 bears in this country, it must be clear – and I say I am right: this is not feasible. I'm going to say this every single time we discuss predatory policies in this room, and a beautiful day I'm going to get right. Then I have to add that I am looking forward to the day that the first king's poodle is going to go to the North. Then I'm afraid we'll have a new predator policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1407	Let me start where the last speaker stopped – and it's about predators. The representative of the Battle Forces Vedum was probably a bit free when he said that it is only the Progress Party and the Center Party that are concerned with people's woes and well in relation to predators. I think the representative knows that we're all concerned with people's woes, and well, also in relation to predators. The government cuts into the entry for SFT, clean-up measures for contaminated land, by 10 million. kr in the budget that came to Stortinget – and the item is cut by an additional 8 million. kr during the period covered by the budget. This is an important item for Lake Van, which is a source of drinking water for large parts of the Mosse region, and is an important recreational area for many people in Eastfold. When the Government reduces this item, I hope that it does not go beyond the allocation to Lake Van or to the Watercourse, which are important watercourses, but which have challenges in terms of water quality. In Storting's new aging, which we're going to deal with in a few days' time, the government's going to grant $2 million. to the Halden Canal and the Telemark Canal. There are important appropriations for the preservation of cultural memories and also for running flood protection. Through the treatment here in Stortinget, the government has put in $2 million. kr extra to the Telemark channel. That's why there's going to be a skewed distribution between these two channels. This is something I'm sorry about, because I think both channels are facing major challenges. I was sure that they themselves would manage to distribute the funds that the Storting had put in place, in a sensible way. The Christian People's Party has allocated 5 million in its alternative budget for next year. to the Halden Canal and the Telemark Canal. In various parts of the debate, we have seen that the financial crisis can become a green opportunity, and I want to end my speech here. If we are to modernise our society and make it more climate-friendly and more ecologically sustainable, we must use the opportunities that the financial crisis also gives us. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to increase the appropriations in order to develop more renewable energy. We need to increase public transport appropriations and give a boost to rail investment, and we need to increase support for the rehabilitation of public buildings with energy saving in focus. These are concrete measures, these are measures that will get people working — and there were such measures that the Council of State now assessed, and which he spoke about in his speech, get people to work as it is possible to get started. These are three concrete measures proposed by the Christian People's Party towards the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1420	The representative Lien was clearly provoked that I had an article about some facts in Norwegian predatory policy. It is a fact that there has been a huge battle case in the countryside all over Norway that you should be compensated for being in a convict team. There was no funding for this in the previous period, even when the Progress Party was a budgetary partner. But there was money for it in this period. Then one can say that the scheme is good, that it is bad, or that it could be better – we can discuss a lot – but the principle that you should be compensated for the costs you have when you set up hard in relation to a government-adopted policy is at least in place. And that's an improvement that's been made, thanks to the Central Party cooperating with the Workers' Party and SV. The Progress Party did not achieve this when they cooperated with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous period. Then it's a fact that the emergency response is going in the right direction. Of course we would have wanted it to go further. But it must be better to get a pass on for something than not getting a pass on for something, which I think Tord Lien can sign on and has good experience with. So it's this thing with fences. I'm not too fenced in the first place. We in the Central Party are not happy with that policy. But then it's about making everyday life the best for people and reducing conflicts as much as possible. Then it is better that a person get an offer of fence than that one should just stand there completely powerless. Then you have to find some practical and pragmatic solutions, and that's why we have supported this. In the case of these, over 90 million. prevention, they go to a wide range of measures, including the reduction of production by people who are unable to continue their production due to predatory pressures. It has to be positive. Then, too, there is an attack on agricultural policy. If you look at the profitability, it increased by over 20 pst. in 2007. Production has never been higher in Norwegian agriculture than it is now in 2008. There's a lot of positive happening. We don't want to have what we had four years ago. Agriculture shall continue to evolve. It's going to be produced more, it's going to be produced new, and we want to get the profitability up for those who work there. It is then amazing that the representative of the Progress Party, who from the Chair later, as if he were so concerned about this, has allocated NOK 6.5 billion less to agriculture. Do you think that's going to be more profitable? Do you think there'll be more production of it? Do you think there will be more farmers and more living communities? The answer is no. And the answer to predator policy is that that concern is not a believer. It's just a tactical maneuver.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1442	I had to go up to the pulpit to comment on the post from the representative Aasland, who says that there is a total collapse behind the gas pipe. It's nice, then, that the only actor in the project who hasn't shown his commitment, showing the cards, is the state, it's the Storting. We want to do something about it because we believe that the triggering factor for that project will be the state's role in this. Then Terje Aasland showed in his first post that StatoilHydro has stated that there are no liquid partners at the end of the gas pipe. But it underlines the importance of the state's involvement, because no one can so doubt that the state is liquid. I'm not saying the state is going to buy gas, but I say the state is going to participate. It is time for the state to show its cards and not just sit on the fence and wait for this to be resolved entirely by itself – for commercial reasons and for all other reasons mentioned in this Chamber. The project has changed, it is said. Yes, it has changed. But if we're going to sit and wait for all the countries that might think of going into this gas pipeline project, have decided, at least the partners that are in Telemark are no longer present when the others have finally decided to do so. There is now a need for action. There have been calls from many parties, not only from the Progress Party, not only from the Right, but also from the LO, from the industry, from the NHO – many have said that now the state must get on the road. That's why we want it. The best thing would have been if we had done this to a OPS project, a collaboration between private actors and the state. Then you'd have gone that path up until you got the pipe in place. Because it's profitable, it's pointed out many times in this hall: the project is profitable. But the uncertainty is great, and the financial crisis does not make it any better. This is the story of the chicken and the egg. But with the government's handling of this matter, we act more in the role of a bird with avian flu.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1455	Now that the debate continues anyway, I thought that I could at least relate some comments to some of the things that have been said along the way here. The first is for Line Henriette Holten Heimdal. This concerns the issue of the cleaning up of environmental pollutants. That's how cleaning work takes more time than we thought. There is not a real decrease in the appropriations, but the money would have been transferred to 2010 if they had been granted as it was originally intended – therefore this cut, and therefore the use of the money on, among other things. wild reset on Skinnarbu. But we have been assured that the cut will not go at the expense of Vansjö, I will pass it on from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The representative Tord Lien gave me a little visit. I think he confused voluntary protection with non-governmental organisations, and thought it was the voluntary organizations that were going to take care of this protection. But that's not what I said, I talked about voluntary protection and that volunteer organizations are important, among other things. to register species observations in this new registration tool. So a little bit about climate in relation to the Progress Party. I think it is very strange to hear the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen say that the Progress Party will have cut CO2 emissions. It is a mystery to me why the Progress Party will cut CO2 emissions by reading the proposal for programmes that the Progress Party has now presented. They use everything about climate to argue that we do not know whether greenhouse gas emissions are a problem and whether climate change is man-made. Among other things, they wound doubts about the international climate panel and also writes: ‘It is important not to take hasty decisions on the introduction of costly measures, regulations, etc. There is neither a sufficient scientific basis for, nor a positive practical impact of implementing urgent measures.» And on the other hand, ‘It is premature to conclude around causality regarding global warming. We want to avoid wasting resources on symbol actions. [[...]] But we still have to resist getting criticism from the same party because we're not doing enough in the climate field. It's absurd. I think the Progress Party at some point is going to have to stop double-communizing for the sake of the people most. For what are they to believe? How in all the world should they relate to the party, how in all the world should they know what they get if they vote for that party? For example, the Progress Party has: have been opposed to CO2 management, but we get criticism of not having a comprehensive plan for CO2 management. They're cutting renewable energy at 200 million. kr to Energiefondet, kutter over 3 mill. for research. Nevertheless, we are going to get criticism that we are not doing enough on new renewable energy. It's absurd. Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that it's important to be leading was, but at the same time they're cutting 8 million. to the Petroleum Control Authority. When, just in the last two years, events from the offshore sector show the need to have strong petroleum surveillance, I do not think this is a matter of intervention. It may not be a parliamentary expression, but now I have said it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1490	The last is at least an expression that we who grew up in the village, understand. A few reflections around the representative Fostervold's significant involvement up against Skanled and gas pipes to Grenland that made me feel the need to make some comments. Firstly, there has been a reflection on what the representative Foster violence and the Progress Party define as state involvement, state involvement. I see enough that in the political debate in Norway, it seems more and more like spending money – what I think the Progress Party in the old days defined as left-wing policy, that is, using state money in concrete terms, to go in. For me, also state involvement in relation to Skanled is that Gassco is now working with considerable resources to facilitate, facilitate, the project. I cannot, with my best will, understand what is the problem that there are private investors inside in this pipeline project, that through the process we are able to obtain investment willingness from private actors to realize the project. In the case of Skanled as such, Gassco and the department work according to the planned plan, the plan communicated with Stortinget. That means that there is a state involvement, a state involvement, just as representative Aasland referred to. My ambition is to get to Stortinget with a proposition about this in the spring. It has been ignored that the concept of liquid markets is at all used on this issue, because the state is liquid, it is said. There's probably some other problem that's at the root of that. The concept of liquid markets is concerned here with the possibilities of distributing the gas to different buyers at the end of the pipe. With respect to reporting, I believe that the Norwegian State's ability to influence Poland, Denmark and Sweden here is somewhat limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1499	It's quite surrealistic to be shutting down by a number of members of the government parties because we haven't been on a climate settlement and because we don't take the problems seriously enough, when the government didn't even want the Progress Party to be involved and negotiate. So we sent a letter to the Government asking to participate, but we were rejected. It is not possible to stick to the Progress Party because we do not agree to an agreement that you did not even want us to agree to. There have been a number of allegations, both from the Solheim Council, which I cannot understand, have ever been peacemakers, because he only contributes to the cultivation of prejudices that create conflict, and from the Thorkildsen representative, who does not show the ability to understand the policies of the Progress Party. So the Progress Party has increased the investment in renewable energy in its alternative budget, but this should not be about money, it should be about system choices. We have a government that has chosen a completely wrong system. We're increasing the fund by $10 billion this year, we'd do the same thing last year. That would have given 400 million. kr more this year than the Government contributes. We have also increased to the Petroleum Control Agency – not as much as the Government, but we have not cut in relation to what has been granted for 2008. When the representative of Thorkildsen says that the Progress Party is against CO2 cleaning, it just proves that she has no idea what she's saying. I was the case rapporteur for the Mongstad case, and the Progress Party was for the Mongstad project with CO2 cleaning. We were for everything that happened there. Claiming the opposite becomes directly childish. But we are allowed to say that there are some projects that one would like not to carry out because they are not good. The Kårstø project is an example of that. That doesn't mean we're opposed to all of the CO2 cleaning, as it's said. The representative of Thorkildsen must resist hearing from the Progress Party that the government's rhetoric in terms of CO2 cuts is not related to the results they deliver. The increases are a fact, even though the government is talking about the opposite. I would also like to say to the Council of State Solheim that the Progress Party promoted a comprehensive package of measures last year on CO2 cuts, in which we also challenged the Government of some sacred churches that they have, which they do not dare to settle. If a few are to bet on renewable energy, a different approach to small-scale power plants, to green certificates, to hydropower plants, to Norway's commitment to nuclear research outside the country is required. But we also say no to bad projects. We were critical to investing in biofuels without certification. Fortunately, the Council of State has got one to get a little bit more down on the ground than it was. We have shown the ability and willingness to stimulate the scientific debate. That doesn't mean that we're saying that the Intergovernmental Panel is wrong on all points. Last Saturday, Henrik Svensmark, climate researcher and solar scientist from Denmark, here in Oslo, was invited by the University of Oslo to talk about cosmic radiation and its impact on the climate. It shows that although the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is being listened to, we should not end all other scientific debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1527	It was Solvik-Olsen's last post that made me take the floor. What we've been struggling with for many years in this room is the Progress Party's perception of the climate turmoil we're facing, and the challenges we're facing in the future. And then they are offended because they were not invited to the negotiations that were! Yes, now I was using an unparliamentary word – but the starting point for everything we're doing now is that it's the man-made climate emissions we have, which is the big threat. It has not been taken over by the Progress Party, nor has it responded to us. It was the foundation that we got this big deal in port here in Stortinget, but the Progress Party was outside. It's not for nothing that we ask questions about the direction in which the Progress Party is going, when the basic thing for such a big deal here in the Stortinget was just what threats we're facing, who created them and how we're going to deal with them. I am also in this debate today a little surprised that you keep saying that we don't deliver. The government has delivered in a number of areas within the different sectors, see below. what Inga Marte Thorkildsen said about Enova's deliveries. Of course, Rome was not built in one day – but the jam we have laid the sketches. So the opposition says green certificates, green certificates. Yes, it is also stated in the climate agreement – it is quite clear that it says so, and we must pursue that. Governments have also clearly stated what sketches we have there. But where are the options from the opposition to the other thing we're working on? Where are the proposals in the budget? Where are the increases that we're going to put into small-scale power plants, mini-power plants, wind turbines, bio-power plants, or what it might be? I don't see them. We're working on the climate deal. The representative from the Christian People's Party also said that she was pleased with the government's follow-up so far in the climate agreement – we had delivered at all these points. I'm amazed. But now we have got a clarification here today that I thought was very good, namely that part of the centre parties have clearly said that they cannot really talk to the Progress Party about climate issues at all – neither in position nor in opposition in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1540	No Marte Thorkildsen has spoken twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1543	Today’s Business is headed as follows: ‘Shall strike a blow for the climate’. It is about Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen going to Poland to try to reach an offensive climate agreement, and to remember that we must not forget the climate crisis in favour of the financial crisis. I think I see Siv Jensen traveling to a climate summit, as well, with his new party program in hand and saying: Climate change is a natural part of Earth's development and has been going on at all times. It is important not to make hasty decisions on the introduction of costly measures, regulations, etc. There is neither a sufficient scientific basis for, nor a positive practical impact of implementing urgent measures, and it is too early to conclude on causality. We want to avoid wasting resources on symbol actions. This would completely change Norway. This would completely change Norway’s image. I think most people in Norway would have thought it would be embarrassing. How in the world were we to negotiate with a party that has that kind of attitude? Here the representative Solvik-Olsen has a way to go, if it is that he has a dissenting attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1557	I really didn't intend to take the floor at the end of the meeting, but I can't do it with my best will, when in a party that's serious, you get so angry and offended that someone takes the party's own policy seriously. Here, No Marte Thorkildsen has read from the Progress Party's own programme, where everything is not used to mobilize the world and Norway to take a force to do something about the drastic climate change, but to so much doubt. I have documented that the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, travels land and beach around and boasts that he will win votes – again, not to mobilize for a force against the threat to the globe, but to so doubt. On Wednesday is one year since Al Gore and the United Nations Climate Panel received the Nobel Prize and contributed dramatically to putting this on the global agenda. Wherever I come, I get to boast of something I didn't have any influence on, namely that Norway – as they say – gave the peace prize to Al Gore and Pachauri. It was of great importance to the climate struggle internationally. That's what you say everywhere. When that happened, the Progress Party came with a selection of irony over these green apostles, who were probably SVs and all of them, of the type Al Gore and Pachauri. Siv Jensen – who in many other areas has the advantage that politicians speak clearly – when it comes to climate, uses the cunning form of political language to turn away, without giving any kind of clarity in the answer to: Is it, or is it not, reason to believe that we have man-made climate change, that it is a major problem for humanity, and that we must mobilize against it? When the rest of the parties at Stortinget did not invite the Progress Party into the climate agreement, it was not because we are not prepared to cooperate with the Progress Party on many questions, but it is for the same reason: you will not invite a party into a settlement on the care of the elderly, if that party sowed doubts every day about whether you needed a better care for the elderly. No one would invite a party into a pension settlement if that party argued every day to reduce pensions in Norway. For that very reason, we found no reason to invite the Advance Party into this agreement. The Progress Party must change its policy in this area in order to be taken seriously by the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1566	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1569	This becomes a rather pointless debate when one claims that one is dealing with and does not do the Progress Party programme. No Marte Thorkildsen must be able to read more than one section of a batch program. If she had kept reading, she would have seen that it says that we would be leading was, precisely because one does not rule out that this might be a problem. If one had asked to read the Document No of the Progress Party Eight proposals, one would have seen the whole reasoning as to why we believe it is important to have an incentive for a scientific debate. That's precisely because we don't know any safe way. Then a few have to confirm as much as possible, so that we can do the right priorities. If the representatives of the red-green parties had wanted to read this, we would have had another debate, where we could have discussed which measures are reasonable, so that one got the best results. When a boaster of Kristin Halvorsen going to Poland to talk about the climate, one might as well have boasted that she had said the day before that now people have to shop more to get the economy going. It's double communication to keep it going! SV has no practical trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1578	Councillor Erik Solheim's last post – he is the former peacemaker – was at least no invitation to peace. I think it's been an interesting debate. With regard to the discussion about gas pipes to Grenland, I recorded that the Council of State was up here and said that there was a great government commitment to trying to get to that very project. At least I feel that it is a fairly late trick, and that we have a government that is not very active to get this in place. In addition, we know that the former Energy Policy spokesman for the Workers' Party in 2003 actually guaranteed that the State would spend NOK 3 billion to put this gas pipe in place, and it has also been said afterwards that it is important to put this in place, that it is important to have pulled up. One of the representatives of the Energy and Environment Committee, Terje Aasland, said in 2006 that in the event of delays, industrial investment in Grenland is at risk for the benefit of the rest of the world and that there would be a breach of the intentions of the Soria Moria Declaration. Now you're going to have to put this in place soon. I record that the Council of State says that he intends to present something in February or March of the month until next year. So I'm excited about what's actually coming, and whether there's an commitment to putting this gas pipe in place that you've been waiting for for a long time, but that you still feel the government hasn't had the will to make sure that part-financing by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1588	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. However, the President will propose that the Stortinget discuss case No. 1 before we pause. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1593	Very brief: I sincerely believe that the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, minimizes the processes in the case of gas pipes to Grenland. Not later than 14 days ago, we were informed by the largest private operator that they have changed the project in the light of the assessments they have made in relation to the separation plant and the market needs. It shows that this is not a project that we're just adopting, and then it does. It's a project that's actually pretty complicated, that needs a process. We're in the middle of that process. And as I said before the representative Hoksrud took part in the debate, I will come back to Stortinget with a proposition on this, based on the assumption that there is a basis for realising the project, which I work for, and really hope and believe that we will get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1600	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then Stortinget will take a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1147]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1634	It is demanding to keep Stortinget again for one matter on a Monday afternoon, but it is actually a far more demanding task to get the transport network in order. We need to modernise the transport network in Norway. Norway’s remoteness disadvantage has increasingly become an increased cost disadvantage. For the main road network, which is the core network of the national road network, the investment need in 2009 is DKK 250-300 billion. If 80 pst. of the estimated investment need to be financed within 20 years, an annual investment framework for the main road network alone of the amount of DKK 10-12 billion would be required. For the sake of order, the government's 2009 budget proposal for this chapter, national road investment, is DKK 6.4 billion. So even the entry for all the highways is approx. half of the amount to be allocated to the main road network alone. Even plus 20 pst. at the top of the budget for 2009 makes no major difference. This would mean that the SEK 6.4 billion increased to scarcely NOK 8 billion – still a worrying long road to NOK 12 billion. Why do I use 20 pst?? It is because it is the Ministry of Transport itself that has signalled when the trade unions have got the main framework for recording the new National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019 – 10 times the 2007 budget with alternatives, minus 20 pst, respectively. And plus 20 pst. Let me also add: for the whole national road network, the need for investment is over 500 billion kroner. We'll find the same picture in the railway sector. We have a backlog on the core network of 150 billion kroner. If we were to spend 20 years, and not 35 years as the Railway Agency itself has assumed, we would have an annual investment budget of NOK 7.5 billion. For the sake of order again, the government's proposal for a budget for the entire railway network next year is NOK 3.2 billion. We also have a large and growing lag in operation and maintenance. Next year, the national road network lag will be DKK 19 billion, distributed with a third party on the national road network and two third parties on the other national road network. All of these figures, with a marked difference between what is granted annually and what is needed annually, illustrate a lot of things. My focus today is that it will take too long — an unacceptable long time — to provide Norway with an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport network, if we are not willing to use new instruments, new financial tools. We don't have time to lose or afford to wait. It's socially unprofitable if we keep going like this. The present difficult economic situation makes it even more important, if possible, to use financial tools that link needs and projects to available capital. Let me also make it clear that the Progress Party does not consider the use of tolls to be acceptable financial tools, even though previous governments have opened up this, and even though the current government is promoting toll financing in all variants. The state is responsible for the financing of state roads. Therefore, the extensive use of tolls is only an extra tax on road use, often used before the road is completed, i.e. a pre-registered tax. Let me just briefly remind you that from 1990 to 2007, a total of 46 billion kroner have been charged in tolls. It's an expensive way of financing, especially for those who pay extra taxes. Of the 46 billion DKK, 30 billion have gone to the project, 10 billion DKK have been paid in interest, and the collection cost is a total of 5 billion kroner. The funding tool of the Progress Party to build a modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly toll-free transport system over a period of 20-25 years is: multi-annual budgetary decision infrastructure fund debt financing by state loans conversion of agencies to companies, preferably state companies if you want public private cooperation public development companies project finance introduction of a periodicisation principle Multiannual budgetary decisions mean that binding decisions are taken for several financial years in the future. It can contribute to the full, incomplete and shared implementation of large projects. Among other things, I have I noticed that the Prime Minister is among those who have suggested such a solution in the past. Infrastructure funds mean that parts of the oil revenues are allocated to a fund where the return on investment in Norwegian road and railway installations is used, where appropriate, to lend to such investments. The Progress Party has noted that LO and NHO are among those outside the Storting and that such a solution is also addressed. Loan financing means that the government is doing what is common to individuals and businesses. Large investments are paid only in part with cash – the state budget is carried on according to the cash principle – but most people and businesses borrow the rest and pay over time because benefits and returns last long into the future. This financial tool is used by state companies in Norway, for example: Avinor. The transformation of the Railway Agency and the State Road Service into state limited liability companies or state enterprises will give the agencies – of course within a politically agreed framework – the freedom of action to implement the prioritisation of the Storting. This principle is also used in the transport sector through the Avinor scheme. Public Private Cooperation — OPS — which means that responsibility for building and maintaining specific sections of road or route is assumed by private individuals is one tool. We know three such projects in Norway. The evaluation carried out by external points on benefits related to the implementation of projects organised in this way. The crash is waiting for the Government's evaluation. Let me stress that the Progress Party believes that the OPS model is a good model, but that it does not in any way require the use of tolls. In our view, it is not primarily a financing model, but used in financial terms, it is interesting because others can finance, build and operate road installations in return for both investment costs and operating costs in an agreed time perspective. We know public development companies. It can be used for limited and particularly large projects, e.g. new lines. In Norway, we know this from the construction of the main aerodrome and the construction of the flight train. The companies finance the development through long-term loans, e.g.: 40 years. We know this from other countries. The introduction of the accruals principle is a method whereby investments are depreciated over their lifetime. This method can also make the deterioration of road capital visible. Some of these financial tools require a reversal of the country’s budgetary procedures and/or accounting — others do not. And that's just an important point. Politically, it is possible to deploy more financial tools quickly in addition to the main tool used today: annual budget. The main advantage of using new and other financing tools in the transport sector is to obtain clear, predictable and long-term funding for investment projects. It gives money for faster and continuous expansion. Many see the benefits. No one builds houses like the state today building roads, after annual expenditure appropriations. I say as former Minister of Finance Per Kleppe said in today's Business in July this year: ‘It would be a bit of a failure to reconcile balance and the ability to make important investments.’ Of course, it's possible. There is a big difference between the use of money for investment that lasts for 50 years and the use of money that has been spent in five months. Faster implementation than 50 years is possible and implementation without the use of tolls is possible. Will the State Council implement a new tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1707	We might say that there is a great need to modernise the transport network in our country. We shall have a transport system that meets the need for transport throughout the country, which is conducive to regional development and which provides security for those who are to travel by road. To meet these needs, it is necessary to use far more resources than today to maintain existing infrastructure and to ensure a faster deployment of new facilities than we have seen in recent decades. We also need more environmentally friendly and safer transport solutions. So the main challenge is to get more resources in terms of money. We cannot organise ourselves away from this starting point. It is important that we look at realistic goals and that we implement measures that are adequate to achieve these objectives. These priorities are important in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In the plan, the Government will make good its views on the challenges in the transport sector, on the objectives, assess the means of action and propose planning frameworks and funding solutions that are appropriate for achieving the objectives. I can promise the representative of Sortevik that the transport plan to be submitted will show that this government is willing to build on the efforts that have been made by doctors in the budgets we have made so far in the period. The debate on objectives, economic framework, financing and other instruments of transport policy is linked. This context will be important to emerge in the national transport plan in order to have a debate on the soundness of transport policy. This government has greatly increased the rights to transport and has overfilled the planning frameworks of the existing national transport plan. We have seen a rise in the level of 11 billion in 2009 for the follow-up of the National Transport Plan compared to the one presented to the previous government. When the interpellant shows that it can take 50 years to implement the necessary measures, he does not mention that it was with the level of promise and ambition of the previous government. Like the representative of Sortevik, I think it is urgent to give the transport sector a solid boost. The inter-pellant indicates that there is an increasing need for modernisation of the road and rail networks in Norway. I assume that the numbers he refers to are taken from the tribal development and the root network development, as the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have done. Both arrangements have been carried out as part of the preparation of the national transport plan and are only part of the basis for the message. In addition, the government has set up an open and inclusive process of local governance, business and not least budgets. This is important for the Government to provide the best possible basis for decision-making on transport policy for the next ten years. The interpellant believes it is necessary to implement new financial tools to ensure clear, long-term and prudent financing of investments in the national transport network. At the same time, he wants to get rid of tolls. So he wants to remove a tool that has produced successful results both in the districts and in the central districts. I agree that toll financing has received a large amount. Several of the projects have been submitted by the representative Sortevik in the Progress Party. At a time when many projects are particularly successful and the need for expansion is great, investments financed only by government resources will not go far enough. To meet local requests for implementation and continuation of projects, toll financing is a real tool. Toll collection is built as known by local initiatives, and the scheme has resulted in the maintenance of road projects that would not have been carried out or implemented later if it were to be financed by ordinary means only. I believe that the Progress Party also realizes that, although they have solutions in the alternative budget of course for the most part. Many roads and collective projects have been realised by means of tolls. Many of the toll projects have been involved in financing bridge and tunnel solutions that replace ferry services in the District of Norway. Advancement and backlog have also been used, especially for road projects. We have also tried out the model of Public Private Cooperation, OPS, on three road projects. The financing of these projects takes place for the first time through the private OPS company and independently of the State budget, while the bill for the State comes at a later date. So OPS is the way to pay off. If I buy a car on payment, I would have to pay for it more separately than if I bought it and paid it in cash. We are now counting on the cost of the three road projects that the system has incurred. I have not received the answer, but it should be interesting to compare it with a cash financing, which we otherwise use in Norway. I do not want to go further into the assessment of new financial instruments for investment in the transport network. I will return to that in the national transport plan. As I said in the introduction: financial tools can never pay for the lack of willingness to invest in the construction of roads and roads. However, I can mention that the transport modes in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 have raised questions about financing larger projects in order to achieve optimal progress. A superior consideration must be that we have a system to ensure that investment projects are provided with means so that we have rational progress throughout the construction process. This government has given a trade lift that far surpasses both the ambitions and the abilities of the governments that have been before us. This has led to a sharp increase in resources for maintaining the existing transport network, while we have had full pressure on the development of the projects that have been launched. I can promise that the Government has a high level of ambition when it comes to modernising the transport network in our country. This will be made clear in the Government’s proposal to the National Transport Plan. I can also promise that we will put forward a plan to secure the funding of these ambitious plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1739	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was disappointing and not very surprising. Both the Progress Party and I are aware that we are in a process of creating a new National Transport Plan for a new decade. It is an important document, it is quite clear. We are afraid that a number of important aspects of principle and structure will drown in projects and amounts once again when we deal with a new national transport plan. That is why we believe it is very important that we have discussions, among other things. important things like other and new financial tools in parallel, and in addition to and alongside the process of new national transport plan. Let me briefly quote Matz Sandman, who should be known in this house: ‘NTP in its current form is only a 10-year plan of what one hopes to do. We are good at plans in Norway, but we are also good at inefficient progress. The processes are often infinite. A significant increase in the framework of the NTP is necessary, but at the same time an insufficient response to the tasks that it now needs to perform in order to address the maturity and development needs. Without system changes, we have not come very far.’ Let me also draw the link to this year's financial debate in Stortinget, Thursday 27 November, when the Council of State said about the budget of the Progress Party: ‘The Party shall operate in its alternative State budget as usual in another economic value’. But both the business community and the people most drive and transport in the world described by the Progress Party, and it is that the prescriptions we have, the tool that is mentioned, and that the government council is very little affected, are sought by business and people most. Then to government loans. – Loan financing with government loans is requested. The transformation of state agencies into companies that can enter the financial market and receive long-term and clear funding is required, and public development companies, which we have used in Norway in the past, are in demand, both of business and of people most. We believe that we need to have a discussion on this in parallel with the National Transport Plan, which has a regrettable tendency to become a major estuary of many projects and the prioritisation of many projects. We need a new financial tool linking the wealth of Norway to state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1762	There is no lack of creative suggestions on how to increase the activity in the field of transport. But, as I said before, it's not possible to get past that if one is going to increase the activity, it has a price, and that price has to pay either a well one or the other creative way of solving it. The Progress Party has come up with a lot of creative suggestions. There have been fund solutions, foreign budgets, OPS, government loans and conversion of transport rates into government enterprises that can borrow. It is tempting to quote the slogan to the store chain REMA 1000: ‘The simple is often the best.’ Since we started our work, the government has proposed a sharp increase in the road and rail routes. There is no doubt that it is both the best and the cheapest way to step up efforts in the field of transport. This Council of States is not in principle opposed to OPS or other solutions, but it must be allowed to ask questions about the presentation by the opposition party of the benefits of OPS. When the specific Right and Advance Party are talking about OPS, one can get the impression that private companies should both build and operate roads without costing the State and taxpayers a single penny. That's actually how many people see it out there. When I talk to people around the country, they've seen it so that OPS doesn't cost anything. It's kind of self-financing. Of course this is not the case. Tax payers have to pay the same amount of money either over the state budget or through tolls. Like all other credit purchases, this has a price. Payment purchase is not free. We will come back to this issue in the national transport plan. I expect that the representative Sortevik also knew that I was going to answer, so I assume that today's debate is more about taking a new round, which we had many of before. So let's do that. Then I get to tell you about all the good that this government has done to increase the activity on the road and on the railway, and the representative Sortevik is told how terrible he thinks the development is. But when I'm around the country talking to people, they don't have the bastant resistance to tolls that the Progress Party gives the impression of. It's actually so that people are happy with the projects that have seen the light of day, and most realize that many of those projects had to wait very long unless tolls had been useful. It takes people over, and they thought it's good that there's a lot of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1775	I am not particularly surprised that the interpellant and representatives of his party like to take questions out of their overall context. That's what we're gradually getting used to. But I assume that it has never stripped the interpellant that they listed the needs for investment, for the operation and maintenance of our infrastructure also have its background in decisions for which he and his party are responsible. It's e.g. a close link between the decision of the majority of population to close the Road Service Production Department in 2003, the further red tape of road management, the increase in costs and the deterioration of road maintenance standards. It also has a close connection with the low level of investment during the time of the Bondevik government – a government that the interpellant would like to maintain. So let me remind the interpellant that it was a compromise that he himself had in mind, which meant that during this period we had raised the road and rail investments by NOK 1 billion a year – a settlement that his party has later had a great hurry to run away from. The difference between then and now is that we've got a government that meets the transport plan's requirements, making the transport plan a real tool for infrastructure planning and planning future maintenance. I fully agree with the Council of State that there will be no more money trying to find alternative solutions for road and rail financing. I've been concerned about it myself, but then from a completely different angle of incidence. I have been concerned that financing solutions also have an impact on the efficiency of road and rail development, that if you have predictable financing conditions, you will get more road and more rail for the money. What, then, about the relationship of the Progress Party with this? Well, the interpellant defys the kind of funding that may provide the most predictable investment conditions, namely the tolls. So he also swears DKK 5 billion a year that is used for investments, but for a party that has no limits on its own use of money – neither in good nor nearly bad days – it is, of course, little problem to relinquish such an amount. That's why the Progress Party never gets anywhere near the government offices. If they are going to do so against assumption, they must, like all of us, accept user financing of infrastructure. I just want to remind you that if the interpellant and his party had been in control of road development in recent years, we would still have had two-field road from Oslo to Tønsberg because of the frenetic resistance of this party to toll financing. Finally, I just have to remember that we also have a story in Tønsberg, where the inter-pellant party told the people that we were going to get away without a bomb. We all know the result: we got a bomb, but not a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1790	This could have been a nice warm-up to the budget debate on Thursday or an overture to the treatment of the national transport plan, which we had expected to come early in the New Year, but it seems that we have to wait, at least on the transport plan. The representative Sortevik has focused on a sore point in the government parties. Today's list of speakers reflects this a little, because when the only positionist other than the state councillor who has asked for the floor is one who is not even on the Transport Committee, it shows that the idea is total. There has been no new idea from the government parties about financing and organising the Norwegian transport sector in the last three years. The only idea they have put forward was the Soria Moria Declaration, the proposal for project financing. It was effectively shot down in the Yellow Book in the 2006–2007 budget. Since then, the representative of Gullvåg has even agreed and commends the great effort of the Government now making. I have a great deal of understanding that the representative Sortevik is addressing this interpellation. I have not, like him, expected to get any answer, because everything is exposed. We've been talking a lot and a lot about OPS in the opposition parties. I had actually written an article that went a lot on OPS. I can hold it, but you've heard it before, so I'm not taking it now. The government itself said that they should have an evaluation of OPS when the report was available from TØI and Dovre. The report was very positive. It concluded that the construction time was halved, and that the cost picture was a little unclear. At least there were no great savings, TØI determined in that context. So state councillor Navarsete repeats today that there is no quick fix, no way, to get more money out of the system. The best thing is to grant as before. At the same time, the Government itself has said that they should evaluate the OPS arrangement. It was to come into the state budget for 2008, but was postponed. Then it would be in the budget for 2009. Now reference is made to the national transport plan. The national transport plan was due to come in December 2008. We received a message on Friday that it will arrive at the end of February 2009. The reason was that something called quality assurance for projects over 500 million. kr. That's why it's exposed. It's probably one of the worst reasons I've ever heard about not being able to say that there's internal disagreement, that you fight for the fillets, and that you don't agree on the device and the content of the national transport policy for the next four years. It's okay to postpone the plan. We have a great deal of understanding of that. We hope for a good plan, and that it will be filled well with funds. But blaming for an organizational tool that has been known for the government throughout this period becomes a little bit easy. From the Right, we are pleased that the opposition has gathered on OPS as a good instrument. We are pleased that most of the parties are now looking for new ways to organise the Road Administration and the Railway Agency. We are pleased that there is a broad consensus to bet on untraditional instruments. As an opposition, we have also stood together to investigate a roadside inspection, which we have not yet seen. I suppose that should also be presented to the Stortinget soon. It'll come in the NTP as well, once around Easter times. It's clear that it's not so interesting not to have anyone to discuss with, because the opposition agrees on a lot. When even the representative Langeland leans back a little and takes on the role of the listener, it becomes quite stupendous. Then there is no more debate in this room – and I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1805	I think maybe we'll rewind a little bit. It was interesting to first hear the representative Gullvåg, who said that the Progress Party can always spend much more money than the others can. If we're rolling a little bit further backwards, we can hear the council say that we need to spend a lot more than we've been using on infrastructure. It's a little strange that one says that the Progress Party always has a lot more money, while the other says that the Government is going to bet billions. Both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have said that billions must now be invested in infrastructure construction. So the Council of State from here earlier today said that the main challenge is to be able to get funds to invest in infrastructure, but in the NTP, this government is going to show that they will move on with the efforts of the government. And you're very concerned about finding that you've met the limits of your national transport plan. This is good, but when the slowdown on the national and tribal road network increases by over DKK 1.1 billion, it is clear that the ambitions underlying the national transport plan are much lower than those in the transport sector. Governments also show that tolls are a good tool for development throughout the country, both in the cities and in the districts. Yes, it may be that you can believe it is good, but for the Progress Party there is no doubt that there is an expensive way to finance infrastructure construction in this country. We see, as Blackevik was about to say, nearly 15 billion – 16 billion dollars disappear in the form of interest and financing costs. I also do not think it would be useful to bet on tolls and then send the bill to the drivers is to show willingness to act and to look at other and new tools. I should like to see the government clearer. The representative of Sortevik has today pointed to other possible solutions, which produce far more reasonable and better effects. Not least, the drivers don't get to be skinned once again, as they have already been, in the form of taxes and taxes on cars and car-related activity. That tolls are in order for the government that is now sitting, we have managed to see all the projects that have come forward. The starting point has been that tolls have been a complement to infrastructure investment, but with the current government there is no doubt that it has gone from being a supplement to becoming the main source of revenue to investing in new road projects. But it is actually possible to use other instruments if you have the will and will bet. Then the Council of State insisted that it is not possible to bet as the Progress Party will, and so did the representative Gullvåg. The central statistical agency is not exactly considered as the running party of the Progress Party, to say it cautiously, in terms of economic policy. When the SSB says that in ten years you can actually invest NOK 230 billion more in infrastructure, it's strange that you always experience that the representatives of the government parties are out there shooting down all other ways to finance road development, infrastructure construction, in this country. As I said, the representative Sortevik has pointed out many new opportunities that we have given to the Government, yes, actually put in jail at the Government. If you are willing and want to use other ways of financing infrastructure construction, the instruments are there. The possibilities are there. It will be exciting to see if we have a government that will be modern and take up some of the new tools that we have shown both in this debate and in previous debates. If it is political will, there are opportunities. We have the money, so it's just to get started, send out the excavators, start building the road, send out the asphalt and get it rolled out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1822	Let me first thank the representative Arne Sortevik for addressing a very topical and important issue in advance of the treatment of the national transport plan. There is a great need for new and better infrastructure across the country, and is there a time when we need to spend more oil money, it is right now. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has great expectations of the Government's package of measures, which is announced in the New Year. However, a discussion on budgetary frameworks must also be seen in a close context with governance structure. New grips are necessary to ensure a durable and robust suspension. The Stoltenberg Government has now been responsible for the transport sector for three years. What surprises me is that this government has shown so little willingness to consider alternative forms of funding, despite numerous calls from the opposition and various stakeholder organisations, and despite the fact that the LO has actually signed up strongly for new funding solutions. An increase in the annual budgets is important, and I hope we can agree when the national transport plan comes. But that's not enough in itself. A fundamental restructuring is needed in the way we plan and finance larger projects. The development of the transport system needs to be made more predictable, more efficient, and we need to ensure much more coherent development. Therefore, the government's skepticism of alternative forms of financing is somewhat forward-looking. The Christian People's Party has proposed to reorganise the transport modes of state enterprises. At the same time, we will establish a state loan scheme for transport purposes. We want to make sure that the agencies can raise loans, either from a government loan arrangement or from private lenders. The maintenance and investment frameworks need to be extended, and we need to facilitate an increase in the rate of investment both on the road and on the road. Today, both investment and maintenance have been identified as priorities in the annual government budgets. It provides poor predictability for long-term projects. Interruption of expansions due to re-priorities on the annual government budgets is not effective and irritating to people affected. That is why we need to put in place a funding system in which planned and started projects can be implemented as a coherent development. The railway system, the state road system, the coastal system and the counties must be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks. The financing of investments must take the form of a combination of State resources and necessary borrowings written off over the lifetime of the project. The operation of investments must take the form of government budget appropriations in combination with alternative financial instruments for which creative communities provide it. The Christian People's Party will ensure a large-scale development of roads and railways in the years to come. I think we can agree on significant increases in the annual framework, but I am considerably more concerned about whether the Government will open up new forms of funding. The Christian People's Party aims at an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that promotes regional development. But if we're going to get to this, we need new grips. I have great expectations of the national transport plan. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport have gone high with promises of increased frameworks, but what remains to be seen is whether the Government is complying with structural measures and the use of new financial tools. Here lies the actual test of whether the Government really wants to invest in a boost for the transport sector. In the autumn, the Christian People's Party has proposed to increase the transport rates by DKK 1 billion. We have done that because we believe that the financial crisis and threatening unemployment make it absolutely necessary. Then I register that the government, according to the press release of the Minister of Transport today, will in the new year increase the effort'monthly' as it says. This testifies to a Minister of Transport who is aware that she is coming too late for the measures, and is therefore trying to remedy the bad conscience by pre-notifying what is going on in the New Year. A road network that is due, failed collective services and extensions that stop in the middle of the construction period may no longer be accepted. Basic changes need to be made. Therefore, it is now important to facilitate alternative forms of funding and to increase significantly the framework for transport modes so that we can achieve a more rational, efficient and predictable deployment of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1850	We can't disappoint Greece and Right by not taking the word, so I have to take a little round on this case too. But I would rather have spent my time working on the package of measures that the Government comes with in January, which is really going to become active in the transport sector as well. I think it's more important than discussing with the parties that have seats in power positions before, and the right of why we're going to clean up what they couldn't clean up. There's a lesson I've learned after three years in government. We're trying to add to the budget, now with our own government, get to action, build the railroad, build more ground when we're in position, while it's obvious to the opposition that they have to get out of the office before they can come up with the ideas. It seems very strange to me, Greece, that you have to get out of the government offices to tell what the red-green government with SV is going to do in the head. Right, Left and Christian People's Party strongly warn against the NTP we now realize. It was too ambitious, they said. Yes, we had ambitions, and we carried out our ambitions as the Storting decided. There's a lesson that the parties that are currently in opposition should take on board in case they're going back into the office, that they actually act when it's in force. And to the Progress Party -- I tend to say that the opposition is pulling cigars out of the toolbox, because they have nothing else in it, they should use the toolbox when they're in position -- where were the Bondevik II proposals when they were negotiating with them? Where did the reductions in the tolling effort in the car list come from? How was the reduction in car charges when they negotiated the budget? What they managed to do in the Progress Party on three budgets was get 1 million. kr more for road maintenance. That's crazy good! It's big! That one now complains about us that we don't do enough is okay, but I want to remind you that it answers to do things when one actually has power itself. A couple of entries, or comments, finally: I mean, OPS is a bad solution, because it's very hard to apply to anything other than that. Therefore, I am more interested in the cash principle, and I am also a little interested in what Sortevik says in relation to long-term multiannual budgeting, which we are always discussing in the government party. But OPS is not what I want. If you have the money, you don't create a loan system that will cost you more. That seems very unsmart to me. I would think that if you have money and pay cash, and it'll be cheaper for you than borrowing money, you'll do what's cheapest. But, as I said, I think that some of the things that the interpellant is dealing with should be taken into account, also in relation to what is presented in February in connection with the NTP, and of course we also look at many of the things that the opposition is now addressing to the government parties in connection with the package of measures that we are presenting in January. So Greece, it's not like Langeland leans back. On the contrary, he tries to use the time to get things done in relation to the financial crisis we have, in relation to the climate problems we have, in relation to the real train effort in Norway. I'm glad that Right now, when they're out of government offices, they're also in line with SV when there's a stake in trains and high-speed trains in Norway. So it's very good that Right stay away from the government offices. There's a lot going on in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1863	It is such that all speech should be addressed to the President. It may be tempting to do differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1867	The left considers it important to look at new tools to advance road and rail development. I do not share the views of the inter-pellant and the Progress Party on tolls, but I share the impatience of the Blackevik representative in terms of modernisation. In the case of tolls, it has been a success in the sense that localised projects have seen the light of day faster. There are even local toll projects that have been realised without State subsidies at all. The type of fissure and virtue is in good left-and-right breath. The use of road tolls has accelerated the construction and development of the road sector in Norway. Nor is it so unpopular – people are largely willing to pay tolls when they know that they get a safer and better way back. There's the Council of State and I agree. Even I am close to Oslopackak 3, and I am sure that whatever the government would do, the necessary promotion and environmental measures at the E18 in the West region would not have been realised without the user himself participating in the payment. Then for modernization. It's stopped completely under this government. The government has historically a lot of money to spend. They've spent a lot of time decorating this room, but at the end of the day, it's probably what you get out of the taxpayers' money, which is important. It's not modern to boast that you spend a lot of money. It's modern to focus on what you actually get back for the money you spend. As an old competitor, I know that competition extends a little longer than what you initially had to do, and you can compete in smart ways. Competition is not a goal in itself, but it can have positive effects. We have so far had good experience of getting more on track. The offer at Gjøvikbanen in 2006 contributed to 40 pst. multiple departures, multiple passengers, better universal design and upgraded trains for the same public support. The left will have tenders for several sections. In a meeting with the director of the Gjøvik Railway, I noticed what she said about pride. Those who worked at Gjøvikbanen were proud to have won the bid, and they were proud to work at Gjøvikbanen. They felt a relationship of ownership of the track. The left wanted to continue this tendering, but the red-green stopped it for ideological reasons. The left has a vision of a modern rail offer where the customer is in focus. In the large picture, the NSB group and its employees do a good job. The company is profit-making and significant investments in new material are planned. I believe, however, that the NSB as a company and workplace had benefited from being challenged in several areas. It has been confirmed several times by the NSB Director himself. We also have good experience of increasing competition in freight transport. In 2003 the rail network was opened up to competition with regard to national freight transport for railway undertakings established in Norway. The quantities of goods on the railway have had positive developments in recent years. Capacity problems are an important reason why no more goods are being transported on rail today. I have a concern that trade unions and old structures should prevent solutions that are obviously positive. The left has always been a driving force for modernisation in the transport sector. We want to transform the Railway Agency into a more modern organisation. This will be an important internal debate in the Left towards the National Conference of the Left this spring. Red-green have stopped the transition in the railway sector and the use of OPS in the road sector. New instruments have not come into existence. It's disappointing, but there's another chance within this government period, and it's NTP. In any case, there should be project funding, and I would like to take the opportunity to recommend double-track Oslo-Ski as an ideal project, with the experience we have from the development of rail in the Western region. In a press release today, we are told that the government will increase investment on the road and track as part of the crisis package. That's good. We've been asking for that over time. Now it remains to be seen how wisely you intend to spend this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1895	This is going to be a good warm-up to the transport debate on Thursday! I want to turn time back a little bit, because when you listen to the opposition parties, I'm a little scared that they almost believe what they're saying here about how to deal with what's going on in transportation. If you cut back a little bit of time, you'll see that the railways, roads, ports and fairways were all criticisms. In fact, there was great confusion both on the railway side and on the road side. And then you stand up on this pulpit and you have all sorts of solutions now and new tools. Then I don't understand why you didn't use the tool when you had the opportunity. The Bondevik II government was in position with the Progress Party as a supporting party. Then it was just to get started. But you didn't. You couldn't even follow up on the NTP you made yourself. That was actually the ratio, and I now think someone should take over soon. You couldn't deliver at all. So I'm going to add a little visit to the budget that's now in place. We've been through hearings. I have recorded – and I think I have been to most of the hearings – that there is a lot of positive coming out of the hearings on the budget. It is clear that one might have wanted even more, but the situation is at least that we are complying with the national transport plan that is there per year. Today, and we have overfilled it. When the previous government presented the National Transport Plan, the representative called Jan Sahl the majority’s additions – I know that the representative Jan Sahl does not like to be reminded of it – for ‘air billions’. That was the word he used – ‘air billions’. But I think we were in a situation where it was good that we had the “air billions” that we got used to. In addition, we have over-filled in relation to the current national transport plan. With regard to the modernisation of the transport sector, funding methods can now be discussed until blue. But the situation is actually that it's about whether you want to give more money. Our party leader and Prime Minister and Minister for Transport have promised great promises in connection with the national transport plan. It's coming. I think it is also possible to see a good development of the transport sector in this country in the context of the current package of measures. So we will look forward to continuing to have a constructive debate, but I think one should soon go out and say that at least we have kept what we have promised. I also think that the opposition should be so liberal as to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1908	It is good to have the floor in such an important debate. I think it's a very important interpellation that has traveled here today, with important themes that point forward towards modernising the transport sector in Norway, which we look forward to getting started when we get back into position. The reason I took the floor was mainly because of the politicians in the position who finally got on the track. It is necessary again to remind Tor-Arne Stroem that the Bondevik II government took over government power in a situation where large parts of Norwegian export-oriented business were on their way out of the country. We had to make a real clean-up and make sure to keep the level of costs down in the public sector. These are the historical facts, and no one is arguing today. That we did not have money for all good purposes, you can regret it, but that was the way it was. Now more people have found that the situation is a little different today, so I'm not going to get into it. Langeland's desire to keep the opposition parties out of the offices seems to me to be a little squeaky, because then it happened so much, and then it didn't happen much when we were in the offices. Then I think I need to get some flushing back in Mr. Langeland's memory and memory of what happened in aviation, memory of what happened in the railway with CargoNet, with NSB, which set up tendering sections, etc., memory of what happened in the organisation, within how we solved major projects: OPS solutions, which all the agencies now say they want more of it. Even Gullvåg's old state road service would like to have a OPS. Then you launch project finance as a new mantra in the government's own documents, and the year after that you shoot it down again. No, this is suitable for confusion. It is enough that Greece put its finger on something rather delicate: there is a big, big disagreement in the government parties. That is why we will not have a national transport plan until the scheduled time. That's probably the thing. Blame on KS1, which we've had for a while, gets too thin. So it's talking about NTP and how wonderful you are there. Yeah, you do your own plan, and that's good. But what you don't do is take into account the huge cost increase that has been. This means that we don't get enough money for the many good measures. Now Bård Hoksrud showed a long list of projects that have not been targeted according to the action programmes of the counties – 23 projects in fact. The reason is that even if you have brought more money, you build fewer kilometers of road, you asphalt less. I think you should be honest enough to say that. So they say it's a great over-fulfillment. Large parts of that over-fulfilment are due to the fact that almost NOK 1 billion more is allocated to ferries. That's good. That's where the government has done some smart grips in discount structure, but that's what costs. It's the diesel costs for the ferries that pull this up in almost a billion. It also affects the total fulfillment. But there won't be any more of it. The second reason I took the floor was that I wanted a response from the Council of State to a matter raised by the representative of Gullvåg. He became a little eager, and then he says that even the reorganisation of the Vegvesen branch was a failure, at least it could be perceived this way – he probably didn't use that very word. But then I have a little quote down in my office where the Council of State has stated that the establishment of Mesta and the reorganisation in that context, with the closure of the development department, has made 580 million. NOK, I believe the amount was. The state councils of the LO State Conference stated. In addition, the reorganization and regionalisation, so that the savings were almost NOK 1 billion. It could be a good idea to get the Council of State's confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1923	I thank you all most sincerely for the opportunity to speak here today. The representative Sortevik has now charged the taxpayers a bill by inviting them to this debate where he announced that he did not know if he wanted or thought he would get any answers. They're probably very happy about that, but then we should also make sure that they get value for money and that everyone participates. The representative of Helleland is also happy. What I'm reacting to is the representative Halleraker, who took the floor and would like to go straight with Stroem because he was so excited that we now mentioned that they did not have money for all good purposes. But as far as I know, this debate is about what kind of tools to use in the transport sector, and it was probably no one who prevented Torild Skogsholm or others in the previous government, the Bondevik II government, to come up with new good ideas and other ways of financing development projects in the transport sector. If it had been as it was said here, that using these tools would have given you much more back, it would have been extra wise to use these in a situation where you had much lower appropriations than what you have today. I also react to Borghild Tenden, which highlights that it is the union's fault that we do not get anything here in Norway. Yes, if it's the union's fault that we don't get enough done within the road or within the NSB, it must be that they require decent pay and working conditions that are the problem. And if Borghild Tende intends to raise the issue of social dumping from this pulpit, I think it's very serious. So is this government coming up with new ideas. This is also the first government to have a Prime Minister who has spent a lot of time saying that we need new tools in the transport sector. It is certainly not everyone in this room who had enjoyed attending the National Government Meeting of the Workers' Party, but it had signed, and there Jens Stoltenberg could draw up some important moments, including. That we're going to spend billions more on transportation in the next NTP. He also stated that we now need to expand road and rail sections more comprehensively, and that there is a need for the Government, the State, to commit itself beyond the individual budgetary years. And as I've understood it, there's just a lot of what Blackevik's representative asks about in his interpellation. But then it could have been an idea to wait and see what came from the government, before you felt it necessary to invite to an interpellation debate where you announced in advance that you did not expect any answers. That's what I think is wasting a lot of time on very many people, and not least waste a lot of taxpayers' money – on a debate where you don't expect any answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1934	If someone throws away taxpayers' money, it's the jam both this government and former governments who spend toll financing for everything it's worth. I mentioned that from 1990 to 2007 the drivers have paid 46 billion kroner, but 15 billion kroner have gone to completely different things than roads. It has gone to pay the cost of building a road on payment. This is an important debate, and it should, in the view of the Progress Party, be done in addition to and in parallel with a new national transport plan. It is too important to have a debate in the planning process itself. This is an important debate on important tools, and the Progress Party is engaged in using tools that allow us to link government money to government tasks. It is a state task to build a road, and it is not least a state task to finance road construction. That is why we reject what is the main pillar of this government, as well as the current budgets, namely to pick up the money from the drivers. There have been three articles from the Government Party. I would recommend these representatives to speak with Matz Sandman from the Workers' Party, which I believe has also had a prominent place for the Workers' Party. He has a completely different view of the tool that I have mentioned here today than the three representatives. It is also true that the tool that I have mentioned, and which is actually also the financing tool of the Progress Party, is quite similar to the recommendation made in a report to the Eastern Cooperation, which consists of eight counties in the East, and which these eight counties have backed – I believe that the representative Gullvågs own municipality has supported the recommendations – which are recommendations that Matz Sandman places on the market and highlights in an excellent way, and which the Progress Party fully agrees with. It is important that the debate on tools continues. It's also important to remember that here it's really less new, it's actually more about using tools that are already in use. I don't think we would want to build our airport on the Gardermo with tolls. It is built through a separate company that received its own financing. The same applies to the aeroplane train. We know state companies, as I said initially in the interpellation, in the transport sector, among others. the company Avinor, and we also know the system of government loans, correctly from other sectors, but used today. So this is known. But it's frustrating, especially for the drivers, who then get a lot of extras, that this government won't use them in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1947	Interpellant debates are always exciting, although today's theme is not particularly exciting. Maybe that's also why there wasn't so much commitment from the government party. For this topic, we've discussed many times before, and I have a problem hearing one new argument today that hasn't been up in this room very many times before. The representative of the Christian People's Party, Sahl, has great ambitions for the promotion of society. Yes, we're some about it, Jan Sahl and I, but for four years, the Christian People's Party could do this. For four years, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left could be a big bet, they could turn the State Roadway into a state corporation, they could actually do whatever they wanted, and put it forward, but we saw nothing at all. That was the thought. This reorganization process has been repeated for several times and has resulted in severe savings. I challenge the State Road Service in several ways to document the savings, but there is no one who can find documentation and present where the savings are. I would have liked to have the money out on the road and said that this is actually almost $1 billion more for maintenance, but no one can say that they're there. On the other hand, functional contracts have been a pain because they cost a lot, and people around complain and complain that maintenance has been much worse. Then there's something that doesn't match the argument of the opposition party, which is so high and dark on this every time we meet here in the hall. I'm sitting with the result. That's why I spend more money. I joined the government at a time when the difficult projects on the rail between Lysaker and Sandvika were about to stop – and they had stopped with the promises made by the previous government. It's a good piece from there to boast that one has all the world's tools, and then one has used them. And the test is not the new tools. The test is that the projects are being executed. The test is that people get a better road and rail network. What's modern? It would not have been particularly modern to stop the expansion of Lysaker-Sandvika, which I doubt would have been perceived as innovative at least. One might want to look at the government councils and government parties that are not so modern when it comes to tooling, but we're creating results with the tools we have. I'm proud to be in a government that, until those degrees, has delivered what she has promised, what others call air money. Well, the money I have challenged the state's roadway to find out about the reorganization, doesn't find one, maybe it was air money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1960	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1966	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e1974	In the course of the debate, 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 8, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9 and 10, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 11, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 12-19, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 20, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government of the State budget for 2010 to establish a new budget line for environmental protection in organisations which are not primarily environmental organisations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2016	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a pilot project in which some municipalities are transferred to the concession authority for the development of small-scale power generation limited up to 3 MW. An evaluation of the project is submitted to the Stortinget after 4 years.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring the Storting to justice for the conversion of Enova’s energy efficiency improvement support schemes, where the primary instrument is reduced taxes and/or tax rebates on the purchase and installation of energy efficiency technologies.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the natural and socio-economic impact of implemented and planned forest conservation processes.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reconsider and reduce the stockpiles of wolves and bears.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the stock targets for you and gloat do not significantly exceed the agreed stock targets.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the right of local democracy to participate in the administration of Norwegian predators, including the granting of damages permits.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish the management area of the wolf.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests that the total number of wolf ewes in flocks with complete or partial reviral status in Norway be taken into account for the stock targets.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2068	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2084	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests compensation for hunters from Day 1 in damages.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the right to defend the dog and its own property in the notified change to the emergency guard paragraph.’ The right has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2107	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2122	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 7 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2137	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e2153	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a report on the implementation of the control of Gyrodactylus Salaris as a threat to Norwegian wild breeds. Such a plan should include both the selection of methods, the budgetary implications and the prioritisation of areas of infection.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a tax package to strengthen cultural memory.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan to ensure the stepping up of efforts to clean up pollution in fjords, watercourses and ports.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals from the Government in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget to: improve the framework conditions for source sorting, material recovery, energy use and biological treatment of waste extended use of producer responsibility, in particular in the management of hazardous waste conversion of the final treatment charge in line with climate policy objectives and the landfill ban.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the control and supervision of the deployment of hazardous substances and waste in Norwegian ports, in the light of the experience gained from Gulen, and to propose to the Stortinget an improved control system in the 2009 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e5889	In Case No. No voting theme is available. Case No. 3 has, as announced at the beginning of the meeting, lapsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-08.ana.ud2031e5903	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
