ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e172	The representatives of Ågot Valle, Terje Aasland and Kåre Fostervold, who have been licensed, have once again taken up their seats. The following permit applications are available: From the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo on welfare leave from 28 April to 3 May from the representatives of Bent Höie and Øystein Djupedal on leave from 28 April to 30 April and from the representative of Laila Davøy on leave from 29 and 30 April all to attend the meeting of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Reykjavik. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Olav Gunnar Ballos leave. From other alternates of the Finnmark County, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, and from the first alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballos and Øystein Djupedal, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Finnmark County: Kirsti BergstøFor Hordaland County: Knut Arild HareideFor Rogaland County: Siri A. MelingFor South Trondelag County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e246	Kirsti Bergstø, Siri A. Meling and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e252	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e273	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e280	The representative's proposal, Document No. 8:35, is a proposal to have an overall review of the conditions to which the coastal hospital children were exposed. This case is not of a new date; it has been going on for many years without a solution for them. Under various governments, the matter has been discussed, on the initiative of, among others. Bendiks H. Arnesen, Arbeiderpartiet, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, Arbeiderpartiet, and Jan Arild Ellingsen, Progress Party. The Committee has assessed the matter in a number of ways and therefore considers that the matter should not be re-examined. There are 18 of the 49 who have applied for compensation, who have been granted it. There's been the main medical justification. It is also such that abuse and lack of care could provide a basis for the substitution of cheapness, and the Committee therefore considers that this should also be considered in this case. A majority, the members of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refer to the comments and the work done under the Bondevik II Government in the case of cheap substitutes. It has been mentioned that it is appropriate that claims from different social groups are channelled through the LFS and that no specific schemes are established each time claims from a group are submitted. This majority also refers to the Presidency's opinion on the system of cheap compensation and its review, both of the principle and of its composition, which has been announced. This has been said by the Presidency to be reviewed during the current enlargement period, and the members that are part of this majority look forward to it. A letter from the Council of State Sylvia Brustad of 20 March 2008 concludes immediately. The Council of State also concludes that this should be dealt with in line with the St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004, compensation scheme for war children and compensation schemes for Roma/taters and elderly harmed cohabitants and women. It is essentially that this should be resolved through the cheap substitutes scheme. The Judicial Committee shall have its seat in Innst. S. No 152 for 2004-2005 concluded that it is not appropriate to have specific compensation schemes. The consideration of a treatment that respects equality and justice to patients regardless of whether they belong to a group or one shall be the reason for their main conclusion. The matter has thus been discussed in a number of bodies and governments which have achieved the same result. Another majority, the members of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. The majority of the Committee has not taken a decision as to whether or not the above-mentioned group is entitled to compensation. There are many stories of failure and mistreatment, and the majority have no way of going into the individual cases, but chooses to see in principle whether we should have a system that compensates for groups versus individual treatment. The majority want an individual examination of the applications, each of which is dealt with in its case. The Equality Compensation Committee has been set up to enable people to seek compensation there when no other scheme captures the cases. There is no reason why those mentioned in the proposal for a representative should not be able to seek compensation in accordance with the rules in place. The minority, the members of the Progress Party, want an overall review and will certainly argue for its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e306	The intention of the Progress Party proposal is that our society should provide a certain degree of justice to people when society itself has been involved in perpetrating abuse - yes, with our eyes even gross mistreatment. And it becomes pointless when all the other parties outside the Progress Party claim that, in the light of previous decisions and proceedings, the matter should be thoroughly discussed, so that they can apply for cheap substitutes. Strangely enough, then, that they're dealing with this, i.e., coastal hospital children, this case doesn't feel like the government and the other parties. Here the Government and the others choose to rely on 18 of the 49 who applied for a cheap substitute to be granted this in the context of a lack of medical treatment. That is not, in fact, what the draft representative is dealing with. The Progress Party here addresses is not whether anyone has received inadequate medical treatment and compensation, but contrary to serious allegations that many children were subjected to abuse, even gross mistreatment. It is in the light of these claims that the Progress Party wants an opportunity to be given to others, as well as a comprehensive review of the conditions faced by children in coastal hospitals. Because if you think it's right to pay cheap pay on the basis of lack of medical treatment, it's absurd not to compensate for gross abuse. Over a number of years, claims from former patients have been made in the media, among other things. The coastal hospital in Tromsø that they have been subjected to both the wrong medical treatment and various types of abuse. I can mention the following claims: gross abuse, mistreatment, punishments, traumatic experiences, lost many years of their earliest childhood, brutality to defenceless children and, of course, reduced schooling. I would very much like to stress that while many children in other hospitals got rid of the bentuberculosis in two to three years, the patients at the Coast Hospital in Tromsø were confined for a long time. They could lie plastered from the head to the toes and be bound to the bed for several years. This is reflected in the NRK’s programme Factor in November 2005. However, such abuses are obviously not enough to get an overall review of the case. Let's say we live in a warm and caring country. The association Rechtfahrt for the losers states that it has about 54 cases in place for which it intends to apply for cheap compensation. But Tromsø was not unique. Thorleif Eikeland, researcher and first amanuensis at the University of Bergen, compared the growth of children's homes with children who have had long-term stays at the sanatorium and institutions in a research report on the Coastal Hospital in Os Municipality. In the material from Eikeland, there are many disturbing stories. It's never too late to turn around. Turning on this case and exercising justice against a group of children who were being attacked by society is, as I see it, a collective social responsibility we as fellow human beings should and should take. It seems pointless to me that cheap substitutes can be provided for because of lack of medical treatment and, at the same time, refusal of cheap treatment for gross abuse of other children, if it turns out that what has been obtained from the media is correct. It's on the basis that we want an overall review. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e321	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e324	First, I would like to thank the case spokesperson for a thorough review of this matter. On several occasions in recent years, it has been focused on how these children in the so-called coastal hospitals were doing, as the case-speaker did. And there is no doubt that many children did not receive adequate medical treatment, and that many were certainly suffering from care failure. The fact that many have applied for and received legal compensation also confirms this fact. The principle in this case is whether the children of the coastal hospital should receive any compensation other than the established judicial compensation scheme. The left agrees that it is not appropriate to establish several separate compensation schemes, so that the Left agrees with the majority that any compensation must be sought through the established judicial compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e331	Descriptions from former patients and claims from the media, such as: Reference is made to in the proposal, which is also a matter for me, and you can think a lot about what some people have been exposed to, and which is not at all in accordance with, for example. How we treat children in hospitals today. Many have been contacted about the situation of coastal hospital children. The question of investigation and compensation has been central, and I feel that what this matter is about is how to deal with and resolve the issue of compensation schemes. In 2001, two medical specialists commissioned by the Department were given the task of elucidating different aspects of the medical treatment of 32 of the children in the period 1941-1961. They were to assess whether the treatment methods of dateda were within the scope of the safety requirement and whether the residence time at the coastal hospital was unnecessarily long. The medical specialists concluded that the treatment did not violate the health requirements of the date, but they stated that some of the children had had a long stay, and in some cases there was also insufficient use of medicines available. The medical specialists stated that the treatment of bone tuberculosis at that time consisted of bedtime lesion over many years. Fortunately, the view of how young people are to be treated in hospitals has changed a lot since then. Parents have the right to be present throughout their stay, which has been said to be as short as possible. Following the expert report from these medical specialists, 18 out of 49 patients have received cheap medical treatment because of lack of medical treatment. In 24 of the cases, care failure was also part of the application basis. The Billing Replacement Committee is free to assess all aspects of an application for lavishness replacement. It also includes references to carelessness and inpatient abuse, as an overall health and care committee states in its position. We have, as I see it, an overall responsibility to ensure that all of these matters and future matters of the same kind are treated equally. I refer you to St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004, where it was assessed that there should be a high threshold to extend the cheap substitute scheme. The main conclusion of this notification is that claims for damages against the State, including claims from groups, are to be resolved through existing legislation to deal with such claims, and that reasonable claims are channelled through the cheap substitution scheme. An overall Justiscomite agreed that it was not appropriate to establish several separate compensation schemes, as set out above. Inner. S. No 152 for 2004-2005, precisely in order to ensure an overall approach and equal treatment of claims by different social groups. In my view, when considering this proposal, we should look at the principles that have previously been drawn up in St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004. I therefore share the view of the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee that there is no basis for re-examining this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e346	I have to say, I think it's a little sad that a case like this does not generate a greater and wider commitment. I had at least seen it as natural that there were several parties who took part in this debate. It's not a big deal in that way, but for those who've been hit, it's a huge thing that's shaped their whole lives. The fact that Storting does such a simple treatment of the matter, you only get a record, and also that the parties do not want to spend time on this. This is not a new matter. In the past, representatives from both the Labour Party and other parties have engaged in the matter. That was when they were in opposition, not when their parties have landed in position. You might want to ask yourself why it happens, but then it happens. So it's that in this kind of case new relationships will be revealed all the time. It also happens in this case. Journalist and author Bjørn Larsen has announced that he will come out with a book describing the conditions at the Coast Hospital in Tromsø. That book comes out for Christmas, and I hope that all the representatives in the committee will be assigned this book, so you can have some reading material for Christmas. Then you can think a little bit about the way this matter was dealt with in the committee, who was the majority and minority, and also the treatment it has received in the Chamber. It is a fact that these children have been subjected to serious abuse, mistreatment, punishments and traumatic experiences, they have lost many years of their earliest childhood, which of course has been with them for the rest of their lives, there has been brutality against defenceless children, and there has been a reduction in schooling. As I said in the beginning, many people have had to take this with them throughout their lives. Since I came from Tromsø, I have had contact with some of the people who have experienced this, and these are shocking stories you get described. There is no lack of evidence of these stories, but what unfortunately is a lack of is the willingness to rectify the conditions these children have lived under. I think that's sad, but I'm just recording that that's how it is. In any case, we from the Progress Party have done what we could in this case, but unfortunately we have not achieved and got through. We'll just have to register that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e361	I think with respect to report that many of us were considered when we saw the NRK's program Factor on November 21, 2005. I think many of the stories that we got on TV at home in the living room made impressions and put traces in our minds. There were traces, and we began to think, is it really possible that people have been treated in such a way, and have these experiences with them? That is why I react when the Council of State refers to the issues that have been dealt with earlier and to the mismedication that has taken place. This matter is also about the physical plagues these people have suffered. Is it so to understand that this room doesn't care about people being physically harassed? Is it that way that we don't want to take it up and look at it? That's what this whole proposal is all about. We want an overall assessment of the claims made on TV, which are made in the media, and which are documented in the form of a box. If this is the case, the big community will accept that such things have gone on before, or are we going to go deeper into it to try to figure out what actually happened? It doesn't want this majority to do. I think it's quite surprising, when we see the involvement of a number of big business representatives in this matter. I also record, as the representative of Korsberg was about, that as soon as you get in position, you forget what you said when you were in opposition. Several of the representatives of the government party, the Workers' Party, said that priority should be given to this matter and that something should be done about it. Then the government was given power in 2005. Nobody has done anything about it, and when we get a case in Stortinget where you want to get a complete review, you won't. Is it so to understand that the sitting government wants to push these claims under the carpet? Is it that it is so unpleasant that you don't want to discuss it or light it up? Unfortunately, it points to that when you hear the commitment to this debate. I note that two parties have not yet spoken, have not yet said what they think, or what views they have on this matter. I think that is a pity, given the people affected by this. I think it's a pity you can't do a good review of these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e372	I don't like the assertions that we, who had to have a different view than the Advancement Party, shouldn't care about the people who have been exposed to things that fortunately don't happen today, and I think everyone agrees that a wish would not have happened. Of course we care. It's totally wrong when the representatives Eriksson and Korsberg here suggest that today's government is not concerned with these people's fates, where, unfortunately, it has committed an injustice to many others in other areas. What this issue is about is how to deal with the issue of compensation schemes. Then the majority, I see, and we feel that a unanimous judiciary has insisted that one should deal mainly with the system of compensation provided by the Committee on Civil Liberties. It is a unanimous judiciary, and it is clear that the Government is dealing with the decisions taken in the Storting, that there is no desire to establish separate, specific compensation schemes for some groups, in the interests of non-discrimination. But it's not that we, who had to belong to that line, don't care about how people did it, and have it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e379	It might be a good idea to ask the question: is there anyone who can show that there has been a cheap substitute on other grounds than the wrong medical treatment? And we know that there are many who have been hit by gross mistreatment. So you try to cover up the fact that compensation has been paid in connection with the wrong medical treatment, but you don't want to do anything about the assault cases. It should be a cross of thought, when we out there so much want to have a social commitment. But that is not what you want in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e385	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2975]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e403	Over the last few weeks, the food crisis has been high on the international agenda. Prosperity growth in China and India, together with increased oil prices and high investment in biofuels, push food prices up the international market. This creates food riots among the poor around the world. The wheat price went up close to 80 pst. last year. So far this year the prices of rice are more than doubled. For poor people who don't produce enough food to feed the family, this is fatal. In Norway, the food crisis is felt by the fact that milk and bread cost a little more than usual in the store, but it does not threaten life and health. Here in the country is the problem rather that we have plenty of food, and that too much food is thrown into the garbage. According to the Central Statistical Office, 1.2 million tonnes of food waste were disposed of in Norway in 2006. Households and industry accounted for half of each. This constitutes more than 200 kilos of food waste per year. household. Why is so much food thrown into Norway? One of the reasons for throwing food is food safety. Food and drink can be sources of disease or health damage in humans. It is therefore important to ensure the hygienic quality of food and to prevent the production and sale of harmful food. Norwegian legislation has become quite comprehensive in this area. There are currently provisions on hygiene, additives, residues, labelling and product quality. Some foods are more easily destroyed than others - easily perishable, they are called. It's e.g. milk and cream, fresh meat and fresh fish. Other foodstuffs, such as flour, groats, sugar, fruit and vegetables, are more durable and can withstand longer storage, and are also not subject to a change in temperature and humidity. The current food labelling system has been established in the light of health and quality. There are two different types of durability labelling. Light perishable foods shall be marked with the ‘last day of consumption’ and shall always have the means of storage indicated. These foods shall not be eaten after the date due to a risk of disease. Foods which are not easily perishable shall be marked with ‘best before’ or ‘best before the end’. Labelling of this type of food shall primarily provide information on the duration of the product without losing quality. Goods marked ‘best before’ may continue to be sold after the expiry of the date, as long as the product is of acceptable quality. Central actors in the food industry claim that we have a branding system that makes us throw too much. At a conference in the direction of NHO Food and Drinking, Director Sverre Leiro of the Norway Group said that they have to shed too much food because of unclear date marking and short shelf life. This is based on the following reasoning: Firstly, it is difficult to get in touch with today's labelling. They have ‘last day of consumption’, ‘best before’, ‘minimum durability’ and ‘best before the end of’. The various labelling schemes create confusion in the consumer, and the food is considered to be almost poison when it has expired, whether it is broken bread or salami. Secondly, the industry overprofiles freshness and creates unnecessary disappearances, says Leiro. The shops and industry fear that long shelf life signals lack of freshness. Leiro also stated that food producers put low shelf-life on food to keep new competitors out. Food of good quality is therefore wasted for purely strategic reasons. Statistics from the Norway Group show that 90 pst. the disappearances in shops consist of fruit, green, meat, bread and milk. The Norway Group alone discards more than 20,000 tonnes of food waste annually. Overall, the Norwegian daily food industry accounts for more than 50000 tonnes. However, this is only a fraction of the amount of food that is thrown into households each year, among others. in view of the expiry date. The message from the Norway Group is serious and should be listened to. If today’s labelling scheme contributes to the unnecessary waste of food in Norway, the labelling scheme should be reviewed. We cannot live with good quality food being thrown away on the basis of competitive and strategic considerations. The shelf-life of most foodstuffs has declined in the last 30 years, despite significantly better technologies related to durability and packaging. Today it is the manufacturers themselves who decide how a food should be labelled and who set the expiry date. This is done on the basis of raw materials, mode of production, transport, storage and placing on the market. Much suggests that basic products such as milk, bread, eggs, meat, fish, etc. be able to have a common industry durability standard. Such a common industry standard could have been developed jointly by the Food Authority and the industry. Reducing the amount of food waste also requires research and development. I think here we have something to learn from land around us, but also something to learn away. There is reason to believe that the knowledge of us consumers is too poor in terms of the durability of food. Are people aware of the difference between ‘best before’ and ‘last day of consumption’? I'm sorry, I don't think so. Targeted information to us consumers can also help reduce some of the waste. My question is whether there is a willingness of public authorities to address this issue and do something about it. This is now possible for the Council of State to confirm or cancel. So my question is: what opportunities does the Council of State see in cooperation with the industry to contribute to reducing the ever-increasing amount of food waste resulting from today's labelling scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e439	I understand that it may be difficult to be informed in the food labelling legislation. The rules can probably be experienced as complicated, and I can't ignore the fact that they can be misunderstood, as the interpellant was in it, so that food is also thrown away without it really being necessary. From this point of view, I believe that it can and should be possible to reduce the amount of unnecessary food waste. Increased knowledge of the legislation can be useful in this way. In a broader sense, it can help to strengthen the competence of both industry and consumers in terms of food and health, and that is an important objective. Food labelling legislation has been harmonised at EEA level. This means that the Norwegian trade mark rules cannot derogate from the EU trade mark legislation. Here I can mention that EU trade mark legislation is now being revised and that the Commission has recently presented proposals for a new regulation on food information. The Commission has not proposed to amend the applicable date marking provisions. This means that the proposal for a new regulation on food information from the EU does not seem to affect the topic addressed by the interpellant. The Norwegian legislation on food information is set out in the label code. I would like to mention in particular two provisions of this regulation which have a bearing on the possibilities of reducing the amount of food waste. Firstly, there are rules on the date labelling of easily perishable foods. These are foods which, for microbiological reasons, may present a risk to human health after a short period of time. Fresh meat and fish products are examples of this. Highly perishable foods shall be labelled as ‘last day of consumption’. I would like to stress strongly that it is prohibited to place easily perishable foods on the market after the ‘last day of consumption’. Then they can be dangerous to health. It is the food industry’s marine sector that sets the expiry date for food, according to professional judgements. The durability of easily perishable products will also largely result in sea ice. It must be brief enough to prevent the development of micro-organisms in the product, so that the product may pose a health hazard. Secondly, we have provisions on the date labelling of foods that are not easily perishable, such as: broken bread and hermetics. Such foodstuffs shall be labelled ‘best before’. The legislation allows such foodstuffs to continue to be placed on the market, if the ‘best before’ date has passed. Foods which are not readily perishable need not be discarded at the end of the shelf life. Thus, through legislation, the authorities have facilitated the restriction of the throwing of food, by the fact that only perishable foods have to be discarded. The industry's up to it. at present quite freely to set the expiry date for foods which are not readily perishable. Here there are no biological and health properties of the product that count. As I have information about, there is reason to believe that some actors can contribute to major disappearances by setting ‘best before’ dates earlier than is really necessary. There may be many reasons for this, for example, that the industry wants the product to appear as fresh as possible. I would therefore encourage the food industry to take with it the question of how to limit the amount of food waste when assessing how to set the ‘best before’ dates. Durability dates should be set in such a way that food expires not earlier than the necessary date, as the inter-pellant also mentions. I think the industry through this can help reduce the amount of unnecessary food waste in a good way. It is of course important that the industry also takes account of these conditions in the distribution and storage of food. I have a close and good dialogue with the food industry and I have regular meetings with the management of the main industries in Norway in this area. We have set up a national dialogue venue where we meet representatives of the grocery trade, the food industry and consumers. This is a follow-up to the Government's action plan on better diet in the population. Through these meetings I have a good opportunity to address the relevant questions with the industry. I also have other meetings with the one where it would be natural for me to address different aspects of the problem unnecessary food waste. In particular, the representative Holten Hemdal indicates that the quantity of waste is related to the labelling scheme. As I said, I agree that knowledge of the legislation is important in order to limit the amount of food waste. The regulatory framework has made it possible for the authorities to limit this waste. It is the industry seam that sets the durability dates. If the industry is doing its job to set durability dates so that food does not go out on date faster than necessary, I think we can manage to reduce the amount of unnecessary food waste in a good way. I want to take it further up with the industry directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e462	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the many entrances of the Council of State to this theme. I think we have a common concern: getting the amount of food waste down, but also eating food that can be eaten. I'm glad that you challenge the industry to do its own thing with this "best before" marking, and that you want to take it with you in the dialogue meetings you have with it. For us as consumers, it is hard to see why one sausage does not have the same durability as the other sausage, because we who are just going to buy sausage do not see the difference here. But also too easily perishable food we should probably have our own round. We know, if we go home in the kitchen, that waffles like to be made with milk that has expired. Although it is a slightly perishable product, we know that it can in principle be used for waffles. And the industry could maybe, with a little bit of pressure, go round with itself in terms of what products you can use for production, when the products actually end up on date - relative to having milk in the glass, if we use it as an example. Unfortunately, through the round we had before this interpellation, we have revealed some frightening examples, I think, as at parties, milk producers put the shelf life date forward longer than they usually do in weeks. Such things are difficult for us as consumers to understand. We want the product we buy to be safe, and whether it's red days or not red days when we buy the product. The Council of State was also concerned that we have a labelling system under EEA and EU regulations. That's absolutely right. But what we can do within this is just industry standards where, as consumers, we get easier access to the knowledge that we're going to have. And I think, as the Council of State also said, that it can and should be possible to make arrangements where we as consumers can inform us better. I hope you also take this with you in the meetings you have with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e475	Yes, I can assure the representative Holten Hämdal that I will take all those points of view into my further dialogue with the industry. I think there's a lot of sense in what's said here. Not least I think it's part of going on when it comes to the product group not easily perishable food, because there's enough reason to think that it's being thrown more than has to be thrown. So the representative can be sure that I will follow up on what has been raised here, and that we can have a further dialogue on it on a later occasion as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e482	I think that the interpellant travels an important matter, but for me this case becomes more than date stamping on sausages and groceries that have expired. I think that this matter should really be a good approach to a great debate about the abundance of society and the waste society we live in. We use and throw clothes and furniture and things and seaweed. It might be interesting to go to a flea market, for example in Oslo, and see what an abundance we actually live in. We even throw food, while large parts of the earth's population actually starve and don't have clothes on their bodies. It's a paradox, and I think we, as one of the richest countries in the world, should really raise that whole issue as a value debate. Then, like the others who have spoken, I am, of course, very concerned with food security -- or lack of such. We see the consequences when things really go wrong. Several of us have in fresh memory the morning sausage case for a while back. In particular, we are concerned when children are involved. I am very pleased with the response that the Council of State has given to this with food security. It's fine with that initiative towards the industry that can also in itself contribute to creating a kind of value debate that we're throwing so huge amounts of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e491	I think it's very positive that such a question is addressed. Food waste is an ever-increasing problem. I very much support the perspective of the representative Holten Hemdal on the matter, namely what arrangements it is important to review, and what changes it is possible to look at that need to make, in order to reduce this problem. The alternative to looking at it that way, is to raise your index finger to people and repeat the admonition that very many, at least in my generation, have grown up with: Think of the hungry children of Africa -- as if it were making a difference. The very best thing for consumers is the most sensible use of common resources, and therefore also of food. Therefore, it is a prerequisite that consumer-friendly labelling should be used instead of a mark-up. The purpose of food production should be to make people saturated, not to sell as much food as possible. Standardization is not always in line with the ideal. Therefore, I believe that there may be good reasons to look at just how the EEA legislation affects Norwegian food labelling. We know that not very long ago there was a new marking with date stamping on eggs, which meant that eggs had their shelf life reduced by several weeks. I believe that there are good reasons to check whether the EEA legislation is very different from Norwegian conditions and needs, and see what consequences it can have for food waste. I've learned from my grandmother that there's a very big difference between «sustainable to» and «best before». It's because my grandmother has grown up in a time of scarcity of resources. My generation doesn't necessarily learn that by itself. Therefore, knowledge, education and sensible labelling are needed. I want to thank you once again for the theme coming up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e504	I think Gunn Olsen drew up some important perspectives. Yes, we have a use and caste society, an abundance society. Also in that perspective, it's important to see that we're throwing so much food. Otherwise, I look forward to the dialogue that the Council of State puts forward, when she has contact with the industry. It's already like today that the food we're throwing could produce 5 pst. biogas. Eastern research already has calculations on it. It's kind of a system of food waste, so we can think of the food that's going to be thrown out for health and safety reasons, but not the food that we're just throwing out because of over-consumption. This is a perspective that I know the industry is concerned about, but on which it needs to be challenged.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e514	It's not much more to add from my side. I just want to say that the perspective that Mr Olsen's representative travels is also very important - including the whole environmental perspective of this debate. We need to balance food security considerations and people's health. It doesn't matter to go to chords with. But within those frameworks it seems that there is quite a broad consensus that there is quite a lot to do to try to reduce unnecessary food waste, which can be used in more sensible ways - and what to discard can also be used in more sensible ways - for environmental reasons. I think it's been a good debate, and I'll follow up on what I can follow up with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e521	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e537	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2975]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e555	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e573	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e591	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e609	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e627	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e653	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e671	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e690	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e708	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e726	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e744	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e762	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e780	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e798	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e816	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e834	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e852	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e870	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e889	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e907	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e915	The size shall now vote on case No. 1 and in Case No Three to twenty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e923	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate a comprehensive review of the conditions in which children in coastal hospitals were exposed.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e946	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e954	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent by the Odelstinget meeting on 8 April 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the foreign regulation includes a weekly reporting obligation regime in the event of expulsion.’ The voting boards showed that there were 61 votes against and 40 votes in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party and the Right. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.59.27]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e966	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e971	Then we take the vote again, there were probably others who voted incorrectly as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e987	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure, under certain conditions, that family members are allowed to leave and leave the State while an application for a new residence permit is pending.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1006	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that foreign students who have completed higher education in Norway be entitled to a work permit for up to five years after completion of education in order to increase their competence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1025	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the rules for foreign students in the framework of a more flexible procedure for applying for a residence permit.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1044	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that foreign stations establish appropriate arrangements for return visits in respect of visas, in order to establish a more liberal visa practice in countries with high emigration potential.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1063	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen from the meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a general prohibition on marriage between biological fats and cousins, with the possibility of a derogation for documented love marriages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1082	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of Mr Right on behalf of Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the conditions of family establishment/reunification with the following starting point: The maintenance requirement is set at a real economic level in accordance with what one in other areas considers necessary for the maintenance of life. The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive social or other municipal financial support one year before the application. The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive State or municipal housing aid one year before the application. Where the person is permanently disabled, the maintenance requirement shall be lower.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1113	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to investigate the possibility of a change in its application for a residence permit under Chapter 3 of the Act for aliens who are in the State of protection. [[work immigration]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1133	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests exemption from the maintenance requirement when the applicant is a child under the age of 18 who wants family reunification with parents or parents in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1152	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the UNHCR’s guidelines on religious persecution are based on UDI and UNE in dealing with cases where protection is claimed on the basis of religious persecution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1171	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the return of victims of trafficking in human beings is followed up in the country of origin by a Norwegian return attaché.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1190	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the possibility of giving irregular immigrants access to a new interview with the foreign authorities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1209	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that practices to provide humanitarian residence for illegal immigrants are reviewed and assessed in the light of long-stay children in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1228	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that those who live in the country without legal status may be entitled to health care in addition to emergency care where lack of health care may have serious health consequences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1247	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider introducing a new type of job-seeker visa according to the model from Canada.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1266	A vote will be taken on the proposal of Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a thorough evaluation of the role and form of work of the foreign student.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1285	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a solution in line with the Finnish Foreign Affairs Act model for unreturnable immigrants with an unexplained situation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1304	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all migrant workers and their families are offered a Norwegian course.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1323	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left from the meeting of Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate the possibility of giving the embassies the power to grant asylum: [['ambassadeasyl ']]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1343	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left from the meeting of Odelstinget on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal to introduce a girlfriend visa for non-residents with Norwegian girlfriends.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1362	The vote will then take place on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate talks and negotiations with Iraq without delay in order to prepare for the deployment of the person known as Mulla Krekar.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-28.ana.ud1248e1438	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
