ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e55	Let me begin by addressing the proposal that has been distributed in the seats of the representatives on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. At the same time, let me apologize for the proposal being submitted only this morning. This is because the Stortinget, as we know, had no meeting week last week, and there have been some communication problems, which means that the proposal was submitted so late. It is a very special matter that we are going to decide on, and it would have been a matter of direct observation at my discretion if the creation in this case had followed the custom and only let the matter pass without notice. In the editorial article in the first issue of Law and Law in the current year, Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith writes: «it seems beyond doubt that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society will be outside the competence of the legislature under the Constitution § 106.» [[...]] It seems very rare that one of our most distinguished legal scholars is so categorical about the lack of constitutionality of a bill Stortinget asking to join. What Professor Smith here says is that the Stortinget does not have the power to adopt the amendment we are invited to adopt today, because it is contrary to the Constitution. Why not choose, when such strong objections have been raised to the basis of a change in the law as it is in this case – it has been going on for several years, and the objections have become more and more and more strong and stronger – the safe way, namely to satisfy the Constitution's requirements for qualified majority voting and to amend the Constitution § 106, so that one can be sure that the amendment of the law is in accordance with the Constitution? The answer to that lies up today. First of all, it's because you'd have to wait until after the big shot next year, and second, that the government parties know very well that there's no 2/3 majority in the Grand Duchy to change the Constitution at this point. This means, therefore, that the matter has to be resolved so that it can be adopted during this large-scale period by the scarcest possible majority, otherwise the content of the law amendment will not be able to be implemented, namely the content of the so-called Santa Claus directive. I also record in passing that, according to the media, the government council responsible for presenting the legislative amendment has found it more important to participate in the interview in the U.S. election campaign than to be present in the Laging during the examination of the proposal. In return, I appreciate the fact that the government is then dealing with the Minister of Justice, who, in relation to the Santa Claus directive, must be likely to be the instructor. The history of the matter is that this was a matter on which a very intense election campaign was conducted, in particular from the current Council of State, prior to the final election, and a very significant price reduction was promised, i.e. significant economic benefits, if the Workers' Party won the election. These are advantages that go far beyond those contained in the changes in the laws adopted by the Stortinget in the last period in the case of the law on the land consolidation. The further story of the matter is briefly told this way: The government negotiations at Soria Moria made a promise in line with what they had been fighting for. Then you create an empty attachment instruction according to this. The Ministry of Justice's law department then informed that this Santa Claus directive was clearly contrary to the Information Society Fund Act, and that a change of law would be required if the instructions were to be implemented. The legislative amendment took a very long time for the Government to come up with it – it came immediately before the summer holiday in Stortinget, with an explicit expectation from the Government that the Storting should deal with the matter urgently. The Storting didn't agree with that. That's why, at least in terms of the time horizon, we've been given a pretty decent deadline to do a real law work in the Stortinget. The fundamental problem is that the Information Service Fund is in an absolute special position among Norwegian funds. It is the only fund which is the foundation home and which provides for the use of the fund in a separate constitutional paragraph, § 106. The second problem lies in the fact that the Stortinget relatively recently, which is only well and well ten years ago, has adopted its own law on the Information Society's fund, where the Stortinget has underlined the purpose laid down by the Basic Law, and actually went even further than the Basic Law in protecting the Fund's funds. The size of the fund has unequivocally stated that it is an independent legal entity with its own legal capacity vis-à-vis the State authorities, i.e. it has been engaged in underlining that the Fund is not subject to a general instructional authority. Furthermore, the Stortinget has stepped up the process of managing the fund’s capital and resources in a commercial way, i.e.: in accordance with the general principles governing the safe disposal of property values. It has also been argued in Odelsting's debate that the background should be that OVF had a very special desire for profit maximisation. That's the grip right out of the air. The information society fund has acted in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Storting itself, and the Storting itself is in the case of criticism. How is it the Government then invites the Storting to solve the legal problem it itself has developed into? Yes, this is done by making a general exception clause in Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act, which in practice gives the Government the power to disregard the general purpose if the Government has to find out that it is appropriate. It's one of the most difficult things I have to understand, that the big groups of the three government parties with open eyes are involved in advocating as legislators for the government's administration. That's actually the reality of the bill you're presenting. The Storting maintains the purpose of the law, but at the same time empowers the Government, when the Government so seems, to set aside the purpose of the law. In my opinion, it is not too strong to say, as Professor Smith does, that what the Greatness here is invited to do is extremely problematic both in relation to the constitutional principles of the Constitution and, in particular, respect for the overall role of the legislative authority in relation to the executive state power, in this case the Government. It was claimed in Odelsting’s debate by figures for the three government parties that § 106 does not deal with the management of the property values. It's an extremely formalistic reading of the Constitutional Paragraph. But given that it is accepted, it is important to point out that the same figures for the government parties put great emphasis on stressing that the Information Society's fund is state property – not church property, but state property. Then it is interesting to ask the question whether you really took the time to read the laws of Norway at this point. In fact, in addition to Section 106, there is a separate paragraph of the Constitution that deals with the management of the property of the State. Paragraph 19 of the Basic Law states that it is the king's duty to watch over the sound management of the property of the State in accordance with the guidelines given by the Stortinget and for the benefit of what the Constitution calls the public service. If you read this constitutional paragraph in the last edition of the laws of Norway, you will find that in the footnotes to the paragraph there is also a reference to the Liability Act, i.e. the law dealing with the responsibilities of state councils. There you can read if you follow the reference in Section 10: «By fines or imprisonment of up to 2 years, a member of the Government who causes or contributes to the misuse of the State's properties or other resources, or who otherwise shows negligence or negligence, shall be punished.» As far as I can see, it qualifies the way the Government has dealt with this matter, fully to satisfy both the misunderstanding criterion and the negligence criterion of this law paragraph. The only legal entity the Government has applied for cover from is the Department of Justice. In its opinions on the matter, the law department has gone to the unusual step of pointing out that it must be the government's duty to ensure that the Stortinge has a proper basis for taking a stand on the constitutionality of the amendment proposed. I do not remember seeing that the Ministry of Justice's law department has ever done anything like this. So the law department explicitly says that the relationship with the Constitution is problematic. All the other lawyers who have commented on the matter say the same thing as I quoted from Professor Smith, namely that it is doubtful that the proposed change does not comply with the Basic Law § 106. What the government has done in this matter is to drive towards the red light – not only once, not only twice, not only three times, but four times. The stork attempted to lay out a rescue plan for the Government. Since the opposition parties proposed that, since the issue of constitutionality is so unclear, the basis for the Constitution could be used to present this to the highest interpretation body in the country, namely the Supreme Court, and to request the opinion of the Supreme Court on the occasion of the case, the majority power was used to vote it down. Very much speaks for this case to end in the courts after it is finished in this house. It's also been referred to, from the government's side, that you're counting on that. It was said repeatedly during Odelsting's treatment. It will then be possible to conclude in the peculiar situation that the Supreme Court will come to the same conclusion as Professor Smith and other lawyers have made, namely that the implementation of the Santa Claus directive on the basis of the law adopted by the Government to grant the Government is clearly contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law. In the debate in Odelstinget, President-in-Office of the Council of State, Mr Hagen, raised a question that the present Council of State, Mr Giske, did not answer, namely, the question of whether, at least, if the case becomes a matter for the courts, it will give effect to the application of the Santa Claus directive. At my discretion, it should be a solar minimum of care, based on the way the process has been done. If you were to end up in the completely absurd situation of putting in place the cheap sale and losing a basic law fund for a property stock in a place between 1 billion and DKK 1.25 billion, and the Supreme Court then declares that what you have done is contrary to the Basic Law, the Government will have a not insignificant problem – to say that with an understatement – and the large majority that has given the Government the occasion for such a behaviour will also have a very significant problem. Finally, let me point to the only argument from the Ministry of Justice's law department that it is possible to attach a certain weight, when they build upon the conclusion that it is probably not contrary to the Basic Law, namely the argument that there are precedents for previously establishing so-called general social considerations in the field of the practice of the Law of the Information Society. It is true that there are examples of advocating general considerations, such as: outdoor purposes, out-landing, for agricultural policy purposes, a certain weight to the extent that it is compatible with the purpose of the Fund. But what the Ministry of Justice has not tried to do, and no one else has tried to do, is to argue that distributing a wealth from the state's properties of between DKK 1 and DKK 1.25 billion to randomly elected individuals – it is one of the most gigantic privatisation projects in recent Norwegian history – should be to care for societal concerns. The word «Almenwesen» in Section 19 of the Basic Law is an old-fashioned word that is not used in Norwegian today – it refers to many of the words and concepts found in the Basic Law, as is known. But it's not hard to understand what it's aiming for. It aims at the general principle of fairness that the State treats its citizens equally, and that social considerations must at least satisfy the basic requirement that citizens who are in exactly the same situation should not be arbitrarily discriminated against. What the tying instructions do is to assign 3 pst. by all landowners an economic advantage that the 97 other percentages are not offered. This is a vertical violation of the most basic requirement of justice, and it is contrary to the principle of the Constitution, except the letters, that the State does not have the right to discriminate against its citizens on an arbitrary basis. I want to say it so strongly that if this is implemented, it is not just not to base social considerations, but it is to make the most of the opposite, namely to base anti-social considerations, by picking out random plotters and offering them an economic advantage that others in the same situation are not going to get. During the Odel Sting's debate, the Council of State said quite directly that what the Government has done on this point in the Soria Moria Declaration is a kind of limited reversion to the effect that a radical Santa Claus Act was not implemented as desired by the Workers' Party. So, the council says, at least we can do it for 3 pst, instead of for all Santas. It's an almost unimaginable arrogance of power. It's just as logical to say as what's else of the worst Swedish wits, the one who went on how the Swedes switched from left-hand drive to right-hand drive, that is, if we don't get a majority to do it in one pass, we can start with the trucks. So what the government here with open eyes does – or rather not the government, because everyone knows that the central party is really against this, but has had to swallow the camel – is to note that the bulk of the population was not willing to adopt these conditions for all the landowners, and therefore we are content to give these conditions to 3 pst. by the parties to the plots and at the expense of the State, the expense of the community. It was argued during the debate in Odelstinget that the government parties have made a premise that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be harmed. During Odelsting's debate, it was impossible to understand what this means, and that means that as a rule of a legal nature, it's what lawyers tend to call a nullity. It's a guarantee that's not worth the paper it's written on. What has to be compensated for is not the economy of the Norwegian Church. What is to be compensated for loss is the Information Society's fund, which the Storting itself has expressly separated as a separate legal entity, which the Norwegian Church is not, as is known. The only guarantee that would be legally sustainable in a legal trial is a guarantee that the State should fill up the capital of the Information Society's fund with exactly as many dollars as it distributes if the Santa Claus instruction is implemented. It would have been a real compensation. But then again the interesting question arises: why should you go about the Information Society's fund? Why can't you hand out free cheques that are printed on the state register instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e114	The representative Inge Wohnning, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has put forward the proposal to which he referred. The President considers that he would draw attention to the fact that this proposal was tabled at 1 p.m. 12th@item: inlistbox In this context, it is natural to refer to Section 30 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure, which includes: is: ‘If a proposal relating to the legal proceedings presented in the Lamentations has not been notified in advance of the submission to the President by the Administration of Storting at the latest by 1 p.m. 09.000 on the day on which the matter is to be dealt with in the Lamentation, the President or one fifth of the members present may oppose the vote on the proposal.’;» However, the President is prepared to propose that the Laging should take up the proposal of the representative for Inge Wohnung for consideration."No one has opposed it, and then this proposal will be contested at the end of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e122	The fund of the information society is governed by the Constitution § 106, which protects the fund from use for purposes other than those specifically mentioned. The Fund is also governed by the Information Society Fund Act. The Act on the Information Society's Fund § 5, first paragraph, reads as follows: «The property and capital of the fund cannot be given up or used up.» The Government’s proposal is, in effect, an exception to the prohibition on giving up or confiscating the properties and values of the Information Society’s fund, in order to compensate individuals who attach the property of the Fund by applying the Santa Claus directive to the Information Society’s fund. For all other fasteners, which are not covered by the land fasteners directive, the rules of the Landfill Act apply, but the Government therefore proposes particularly favourable redemption rules and conditions for fasteners attached by the Information Society Fund. The estimates of the Information Society's fund show that the proposal would amount to a loss of DKK 1 to DKK 1.25 billion for the Fund if all residential property owners redeem their properties in accordance with the proposed provisions of the Government. The main question is whether such a rule would conflict with the Constitution § 106. The Ministry of Justice's law department reveals some uncertainty in its main conclusion that the bill is within the Basic Law § 106. It is clearly stated that the issue has to be assessed separately by the Storting in the context of the examination of the legislative proposal, which is not a common wording of the law department. However, the majority have used little energy to assess the constitutionality of this proposal. One rests solely on the conclusion of a department in the Ministry of Justice, despite the fact that this conclusion has been strongly met by several legal teams. Lawyer Frode A. Indord at the law firm Hjort has written several observations on the constitutionality of the Government's proposal, on behalf of the Information Society's fund. His conclusion is clear: the bill is clearly contrary to the Constitution § 106. Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith was also quite unambiguous in his conclusion at the committee hearing: the bill is clear contrary to the Basic Law § 106, and he suggested that he did not consider it reasonable to claim that a gift of one billion to individuals is within the framework of the Basic Law § 106. In practice, only the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice believes that the bill is within the scope of the Basic Law § 106. The basic law of § 106 sets a relatively clear and final framework for the use of the fund’s resources. This is the background to the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. It is not disputed that the Constitutional Act § 106 also imposes a requirement for the proper management of the fund's funds. This view is also shared by the Department of Justice. It is difficult to see that, in the light of this setting, the Creation can close the eyes of the obvious conflict between the bill and the Constitution § 106. In this context, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's posts in Odelstinget. Furthermore, it is remarkable that the Law will accept the arguments of the majority of Odelstinget that constitutional law will only be revealed by ex-post review by the courts. Such a position by the legislator is unusual, and I would like to remind you of the responsibilities of each of us in relation to the enforcement of the Constitutional Law. I would also like to clarify for the possible legal proceedings that the interpretation of the Constitution in such cases does not have to be based on what a random simple majority believes is the content of the Constitution, since amendments to the Constitution require a qualified majority. Obviously, such a majority do not share the views of the government parties on the relationship of the proposal with the Constitution. The natural thing in such a case would be that proposals were made for changes to the Constitution. What government parties are currently doing is trying to change the contents of the Constitution by a simple majority and shift any future problems to the courts. This is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e153	I recommend the Creation to maintain by the decision made by the Odelstinget. It is also well documented in the Odelstinget setting that this is okay. No pay and others are now trying to revitalize the Lamentation – almost to carry oats to a horse that is almost dead. That's what I think is understandable. We've had a debate before, about partnership laws, but now he's taking a new round just before Creation is to be brought down. The red-green follows the recommendation they received from the Law Department. I would definitely recommend the Creation also to do that. Then I just have to comment on a claim from the Wage that we should take care of a case here because we are going to leave now – clearly. The red-green government does not intend to go off – on the contrary, we intend to reign far into the future, and hopefully be able to keep the Right out of Government. That's our goal. That we provide a treatment of this matter - there must be limits! So I just want to say in the end that when the government party says that one should look at a compensation for this, one of course thinks so. That's serious. So I recommend the government party to support the setting and the law decision from Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e164	The government has proposed an amendment to the Information Society Fund law that will have major consequences. With a pen stroke, the Government transfers values from the community to individuals. It is rare to see such a lewd treatment of a matter that has such great consequences as this. Those who are so fortunate that they have secured the land belonging to the fund, unlike all other landowners in the country, receive a significant discount from the Government, a discount for which they can reap a significant gain if it is realised by a subsequent sale of the property. In this way, the Government takes community values and distributes them again to more or less random individuals. Landowners throughout the country should note that the Centre Party has not in any way reserved itself or opposed this proposal. I had expected the centre party to have been on the landowners' side in this case, because of course this would have transfer value also to other landowners and landowners. It will put pressure on the private market and create enormous pressure on how to do this. It must be allowed to ask, where did the Center Party defend local ownership? In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the Information Society's fund is the heritage of the Church. With the changes in the laws that we are dealing with here in Lagtinget today, the Information Society's fund is now running a triple message, first of all with the decision taken today. Secondly, the fund has been imposed more obligations in recent years than it had in the past. So you're going to have to cover more than what you did before, and less than that. Thirdly, because of the financial turmoil we are in, the fund is in a very difficult situation that makes it lower. The great losers are the child and youth work of the Church, and the priests who are under obligation and who desperately want to have their homes rehabilitated. The most serious thing, however, is that it seems that the government deliberately violates the Constitution in this matter. The Constitution sets clear limits on what the fund can be used for. It says that the fund cannot give up or give up values, for example. for the sale of land or buildings at a price lower than market value, but that is exactly what the Government will now do. Professor Eivind Smith has been drawn into the debate by the representative Inge Wohnning. Let me quote some of what Eivind Smith says: ‘There is no reason to interpret the basic law in such a way that the provisions on the competences of the Storting nevertheless prevail.’ Maybe we can't get any clearer than this. In this debate, it must also be allowed to ask questions about the relationship between the Basic Law § 106 and the Santa Claus directive taken last year by the Government. The Christian People's Party believes it is mildly questionable about the Santa Claus directive and thus the subsequent amendments to the OVF Act are within the framework of § 106 which draws up. The points made by Hjort's law firm are in the same direction: ‘On the basis of a sound legal assessment, there can be no doubt that the Landing Instructions are contrary to the Basic Law § 106 and that they cannot therefore be implemented without a Constitutional Decision under the Constitutional Act § 112.’ These are clear thoughts from a law firm. The law department, on the other hand, has a negative conclusion, but as we read the Law Department’s opinion, it also opens up so that the instructions can be unconstitutional. The law department says very clearly that Stortinget must be given the best possible basis to take a concrete view of the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 and the present issue. Fortunately, it is very rare that we come up in a situation like this, that there is such a big question mark about whether a bill and an instruction are in accordance with the Constitution. A constitutional provision shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority in this Chamber. However, a two-thirds majority does not need to be interpreted in retrospect when interpreting what the Constitution says. That's enough with a simple majority. In this specific matter, more than one third disagree with the Government and Government parties. I want to say that the government parties assume a great responsibility. The information society's fund is to consider the Church's heritage. The implementation of the Landing Instructions means that the Fund’s values will be reduced by an estimated DKK 1.1 billion in addition to the deterioration resulting from a 2007 Supreme Court judgment. In addition, annual fasting fees/fixing income will be reduced by 20 to 25 million. kr. This means that the value of the fund is transferred from the fund to individuals at a price that in many cases will be far below market value – in addition to the fact that the general turmoil in the financial market has also hit OVF’s capital hard. The matter may not have ended with the political debate here in Stortinget. The final clearance is likely to come into the legal system, and the Government assumes a great responsibility when they can now deliberately break the Constitution. The government's desire to be generous is basically affordable. Be generous, but spend your own money. Taking away from the local child and youth work, taking from the refurbishment of the clergy, taking from those who perform a service in the Norwegian Church, that is, from the community, and giving to the private, is not generosity, but confiscating the values of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e204	I'm not sure if I'm going to bring this debate so much new. This has not been done so much earlier today either. These are points that we've heard before. I would like to take this opportunity to explain and justify the position of the Centre Party. This case is based on the Soria Moria Declaration, where the negotiating partners of the three government parties had a separate section called the Empty Party Act. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the «The government will instruct state-run funds and government properties to grant second-year redemption rights to 30 times consumer-priced original rentals.» That was the starting point. Then I am aware that the OVF manages church properties as well as the sales revenues they have generated since the origin of the fund and the adoption of the Basic Law § 106. That means that the fund has a large equity of approximately NOK 6.6 billion. It shall include, inter alia: spend this money on the maintenance of 440 residential pensioners, etc. I am aware that the money is used for many good purposes. In the case of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society, the fastening instruction will apply to fasteners under the Fund. Those who fasten the property will be able to redeem the land at a lower price according to the rules of the Law on Landing. If the attachment does not redeem the land, he will be able to obtain a more favourable tax regulation than under the Law on Landfills. The benefit of the parties under the fund has given rise to a discussion – that is, what we are now in – about the limits of § 106 of the Basic Law for the management of the Information Society's fund. These are very comprehensive issues, and it is well known that different legal expertise stands against each other in this matter. From a religious point of view, there is reasonable opposition to the implementation of the instructions. Not because it is wrong or wrong to compensate for the damage to property, but because of the loss of value and income that the fund will receive. There is no disagreement that the implementation of the instruction implies that the future property income and sales income of the fund are lower than if it had been the present. The calculations that have been made are uncertain. But no one argues that the loss for the fund will be significant. I would therefore like to point out here what is written in Ot.prp. No 60 under the heading «Other remarks from the Ministry»: ‘The Ministry will stress that it is a premise that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instructions.’ This, of course, is serious. The fundamental law issue in this case has been given a great deal of attention in the legislative proposal, and the background is said to be that the scope and nature of the case indicates that the proposition provides a detailed explanation of the understanding of the Basic Law § 106, which has been taken into account. The proposal refers in detail to two statements by the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department on the subject of the Constitution, and the proposal also sets out the views of the law firm Hjort, which have a different opinion from that of the Law Department. So the learned ones are fighting to use that expression. I just want to conclude by saying that in connection with the part of the Soria Moria declaration that I referred to Santa Claus, a letter was sent to the Law Department. It was blacked on 12 January 2006 where the Law Department concluded that an instruction according to the Declaration would not be contrary to the Basic Law § 106. This is the background for the Central Party also joining the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e236	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken once and now receives up to 10 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e239	The representative of Langeland suggested that it would be premature to use the Creation time to discuss this matter, apparently because the Creation will cease to exist next year. It's a strange logic. I would say that it would have been quite irresponsible for the Creation if it did not do its job as long as it exists. The creation job under the Basic Law is to contribute to ensuring the quality of the legal decisions taken by Stortinget. The representative of Langeland went on to say that the government here had acted only on the recommendation of the Law Department. It is in the case of the most lukewarm recommendation I have ever read, because the Law Department goes quite the opposite way in expressing doubt as to whether this can be said to be within the framework set by the Constitution. The Head of Mission of the Legal Service said in the open committee hearing that he fully understood that other legal experts came to the opposite conclusion that this was definitely outside. So the law department has not set up as any guarantee that the government's authority complies with the Constitution. Professor Smith points out, in the formerly mentioned executive article of the Law and Law, that the Law Department even has a passport in its opinion that goes far towards reaching the cautious conclusion that it is likely to be within the framework. They say, "Oh, my God. «The systematic re-disposal of significant parts of the fund's assets irrespective of the purpose of the fund and without any remuneration being provided would be an example of dispositions contrary to the fundamental law.» To that one can really just say it as briefly as Professor Smith: «Just!» Because that's exactly what the Santa Claus directive involves, and as the Government asks the Storing to get a law-enforcement vote to take place. I guess you could say 20 pst. of the total property mass is a significant part. You also have to say that what you're adding is a systematic redeployment of the fund's wealth regardless of the listed purposes. I am still glad to see from Odelsting’s debate or elsewhere that someone has tried to argue that the purpose of assigning private landowners to the community’s funds is in accordance with the purposes listed in Section 106, or in Section 5 of the Information Society’s Fund Act. Nor can I see that any kind of remuneration has been promised, namely the Information Service's fund. The only thing you've given is some vague and unprecious promises that you should make sure that the economy of the Norwegian Church doesn't get hurt. But what's that now? It's probably just that you have to enter it in the budget proposal at some point in time. There was no reason to do so in this year's budget proposal. And the Storting will be completely cut off from checking the correctness of the claim. If it was to be paid, it had to be given to the Information Service's fund. In particular, taking into account the fact that all the parties in the Stortinget have entered into an agreement to change the relations between the State and the Church during the next majority period, and everyone agrees that there is also a need to take a stand for what is to be done with the Information Society's fund when the State and the Church are no longer one legal person, it is obvious that there is such a hurry to lose 20 pst. out of the fund's capital during this capitalisation period. I will not find it unnatural if the present Council of State takes the floor in this matter for example. to clarify what the Council of State was not able to clarify during the Odelstingen debate, namely how the Government intends to act when this matter is to be tried by the courts. If you want to apply the instructions well aware that it can be condemned north and down, or if you want to show respect for the rule of law that you are waiting to implement the instructions until the legal issues are settled. It must be possible to give a clear answer on the part of the Government. When it is essential that we handle this matter conscientiously also in Lagting, it is because everyone knows that when the time comes, the Supreme Court will decide on the legal issue, among other things. the treatment by the legislator of the legislative decision on which the legality of which may be contested is an essential part of the basis. That's why it's for me to make a firm statement, and that it's going to be in the minutes of this meeting, that the government has been warned, as I said, not only once, but four times. And then when you've used your majority power in the Storting to cut off the possibility that the Supreme Court could give a preliminary consideration to the fundamental law, I have to say that it would be very well deserved if you had to bear the consequences in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e255	I very much agree with the representative for pay in one thing, and that is that this is a matter that really deserves a proper debate also in the Laging. That being said, and there's so much doubt about the role of the Center Party in this, we have to clarify something from the Center Party. The matter is an important part of our Soria Moria agreement, where there were three independent parties that signed that we should review both state funds and state properties to see if we need adaptation to a modern time. This is the result of the agreement that the Central Party is fully behind. And when the Christian People's Party's representative really runs the scare propaganda here, that we are raging the child and youth work in the Norwegian Church, I would say with all due respect: this is deaf! We have said very clearly that this should not be at the expense of something related to child and youth work, nor should it be at the expense of maintaining the buildings of the Norwegian Church. This is clearly below. The last thing I want to mention in this short article is our relationship with so-called reference persons, with experts. You use a professor Smith for everything it's worth. At the same time, the Law Department has a completely different assessment of the case. The centre party really looks forward to us getting a proper legal assessment of the case, also as a breakup bar so that we can look at both funds and state properties in a way that can really benefit the people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e266	I might have been a little quick to draw on the list of speakers – I really wanted to make some comments after the Council of State. We'll see if it's necessary to go to the pulpit again. Last post must be a good proof of why one negotiated at Soria Moria, for the husband of the dreamers of the consequences of an agreement! It is obvious that the Information Service's fund for quite a lot of money is bottled here, and the fund cannot live on air and water and good promises to be compensated. I'll get back to that a little bit. The issue is whether or not the Storting will take a decision that conflicts with the Competence of the Storing, i.e. the adoption of a decision contrary to the Basic Law § 106. I hear that there is a argument that there is a conflict in the legal circles. I can't see that there's a lot of fighting. It is the Law Department that believes that it may not be contrary to the Constitution. The rest believe that this is contrary to the Constitution. Eivind Smith was very clear during the hearings in the committee, and for my part it is not left very much doubt. The first paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society's fund is also permitted, which says that the fund should not only be distributed. This has provided quite a number of creative explanations of how you have landed at the position you have. The probability of distribution is significant. 1 to 1.25 billion is to be distributed. We've seen a look in the press where someone gets up to 90 pst. a gift in proportion to what the General Law on Landings would have given. That is, as far as I know, approx. 7 000 plotters under the OVF, and this gift is very randomly distributed. I find that the Workers' Party and SV can defend it – something that the representative has been involved in – very special. And from the Central Party team, this is a violation of the basic ownership principles of the party. So now we see a coalition between the reds and the greens that end up with a decision that will be terribly wrong – if you follow the Odelsting decision. It's not profit maximisation you're talking about OVF being imposed here, you're talking about OVF not being subjected to any additional loads, except what other Santas have become. That you have such a hurry to implement such a case, I think it is quite special. Therefore, there has been a good deal of focus on both the Council of State's responsibility in the matter and the Government's responsibility to guide the Storting to a correct decision. I follow those who say that you have been driving on a red light for a very long time. So finally, with compensation. The representative of Langeland is making it sound like the red-greens are going to be in government forever. I'm one of those people who hope they don't. What we can see is that there has been no indication that funds have been spent on this year's government budget to compensate the Church for the loss of NOK 1 – 1.25 billion. Then you've pushed it over into a new period of government, and everyone knows how good such promises are to deal with. It's going to be very difficult for the Church, or for the OVF, to come back and get compensation. And when you go into a process of church-state relationship, and you go into a new government, I don't think that compensation will ever come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e284	I cannot hide the fact that I see any discussion about the law and whether the instruction on the Santa Claus is important – including taking the discussion here in the Lagting. I will try to answer some of the issues raised by the representative in particular. I miss one dimension in this debate. That's the dimension that this is really about, in addition to the Information Society fund. It has been said here that an almost arbitrary transfer of wealth to random people – the term ‘random’ has been used many times. It's not that these are random people, there are people who live on, and who have their most important social good – and perhaps their life's investment – in the plot area that we're discussing here. That's what's a lot of the background because many of us over the last few years have been very concerned about creating better social protection for just these. These are far more than those handled by the Information Society's fund – I am fully aware of this – but it is clear that both the Government and the previous government have gone far too far to meet their concerns. Here I must commend both the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, which contributed to the Santa Claus compromise we had last round, and where there was also a constitutional objection raised. At that time, it was probably the Progress Party that demanded that the Supreme Court assess this. It was rejected – as far as I can remember – both by us in the Workers' Party and by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Asking the Supreme Court for an assessment of this in advance was almost pointed to as a solution that was not in time. We also know, to all intents and purposes, how it went with the change of law that the previous government initiated: One got a round in the Supreme Court afterwards, which has made us have had to start a legal work to correct something when it comes to, among other things. the redemption rules. The important and crucial thing for many of us and for the Government has been that we are totally dependent on doing something about the situation that is quite unsustainable for many landowners, and that is related to housing. The fact that one has almost a split ownership has contributed to considerable uncertainty for the future — especially when the fees were increased, which contributed to the difficult situation of many with very low incomes in keeping their own housing. That is why it was also important, both in the context of elections, to which the representative Inge Wohnning has been involved, and in the context of the Soria Moria Declaration, to create a policy that meets their needs. I think it's a little strange that now, after three years, you've almost been chased down with respect to not fulfilling promises, and then we're standing here saying one thing in the election campaign, we're writing it into the Soria Moria statement, and we actually want to fulfill it. That is what politics is all about, and this is very much a political issue. And I believe that many of the legal issues raised are not correct. Nor is it natural for me, on behalf of the Government, to advance what is the Government's position on any lawsuit. It would also break with the practice of how the Government deals with these kinds of issues, all the time we actually want to deal with it at the time it might come – with what it might contain of demands. Then I would also point out that in the previous round about Santa Claus in Odelstinget and Lagtinget, it would set aside the whole process if a minority of the organs in the Stortinget were to have the opportunity to just raise a constitutional objection, and then you would have to have a two-thirds majority. It would be an effective way to stop many kinds of legislative proposals. It was not at the time of the round in which the citizens chose to vote through the proposal, nor should it be now. I also believe that the Law Department makes a proper assessment of this issue, which I am fully involved in. It is important for the assessment of the constitutional to look at how the majority of population has said and interpreted the Constitutional provision. I believe that what has been done by the Law Department is adequate in this respect. I'm not going to go into what's in the Law Department's opinion, except to point out that when the committee hearing was held on September 4th, the chief of expedition Inge Lorange Backer gave a summary. Among other things, he said:\t\t You « It is clear that the First sentence of Section 106 of the Basic Law applies to the purchase sums and other income actually transferred to the Information Society's fund from the so-called «Geistlichkeit benefigt Gods». [[1]] [[2]] The basic law does not require that the goods in question be managed and disposed of with a view to their maximum yield. [[3]] We – and that is the Law Department – “have stated in our opinions – in accordance with what is a widespread opinion – that the Constitution requires the proper management of the goods. It must be admitted, however, that such a requirement does not directly follow the constitutional provision and that the legal base is uncertain.’ – This concerns the issue of the requirement of sound management. [[4]] Furthermore: ‘The assessment of what constitutes sound management can be carried out from a broad societal perspective. The emphasis must be on the ‘loss’ or limitation of future returns that the Information Society’s Fund may be placed on, but may also be placed on the consideration of fasteners, which are longer linked to the fasteners and have normally made larger investments in it. The size must be assumed to have a significant freedom to make this overall assessment. There is a wide range of reasons for which Stortinget can intervene here, and it is not limited to the mentality or the Norwegian Church.» I'm making this quote because I think it's important, because on this occasion the majority of the population and the government are just doing this broad social assessment, which includes. the importance of the parties is also vital in relation to what I said in the introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e315	In the light of what emerges from today's debate, I would like to stress that the majority has assessed and thoroughly explained how the majority assesses the constitutional issue. I would like to repeat Mr Elvik's statement from Mr Odelsting's report on the matter, which is clear as to what the majority has focused on. The majority agree with the Ministry and the Legal Department in an interpretation of the Constitution § 106 as regards the need to focus on the fact that the purposes listed in the paragraph are being met in a different way today than in 1814 – for example. the State contributes substantially to the financing of governmental purposes and to the Information Service in ways other than through the management of the values of the Information Service Fund. The next point is that the Basic Law § 106 only requires how the purchase price and income from the «Geistlichkeit benefied Gods» is to be used, and not for the management of the fund in addition to it. Thus, the stamping instructions do not imply that the fastening fee or redemption sums are to be used for purposes other than those resulting from the Basic Law. The question then arises to what extent the Basic Law § 106 provides for the management of the Information Society's fund and to what extent it is possible to take account of purposes other than those explicitly mentioned in the paragraph. The majority agree with the Law Department and the Ministry that in the matter of the management of the Fund: ‘the possibility of taking a wide range of considerations, including those outside the scope of Article 106 of the First sentence of the Constitution. This can be done even if it does not maximise the capital and return of the fund. The country must have a relatively far-reaching understanding of balancing the considerations of the purpose and other considerations taken into account.» This brings us to the question of the sound management of the fund. The majority share the view of the Ministry and the Legal Department that the Constitution § 106 does not impose absolute limits on the reasons for which a person may include in the assessment of how a person manages the funds in the Information Society Fund. We assume that the requirement for sound management of the fund is met as long as reasonable consideration is given to the listed purposes of the Basic Law § 106 and other purposes. The management of fasteners is such a purpose. In the setting, we point out that with regard to the management of fast rooms, it has been decided through various issues that have occurred within the Stortinget that one should take reasonable care of the interests of the parties. In other words, it's not a new situation. All these elements together give the majority's conclusion that neither the law nor the instructions are contrary to the Constitution. The minority has reached a different conclusion, but I will refer again to the Law Department, which writes that one should be careful, on an unclear basis through the interpretation of such a constitutional provision, to intervene in the Grand Duchy's legislative authority or the Constitution § 75a. We need to base a broad societal perspective on this matter, which was also addressed by the Council of State. The size has the freedom of action in this assessment. We need to assess the loss or limitation of future returns for the Information Society’s fund — but the legal sources therefore show that there is practice to emphasise the importance of the parties in the management of the Information Society’s fund, and that is what the majority does. The Santa feasts aren't anyone. It's people who have a long connection to the party rooms, it's people who have usually made large investments in the plot. We note from the majority that the bourgeois parties choose not to pay particular attention to the celebrations, and that is not surprising. In the light of the Soria Moria Declaration and the treatment of the Law on Landfills in the previous period, it should also not be surprising that this government chooses to pay such great attention to the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e337	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e340	What distinguishes landowners owned by the Information Society's fund from all other landowners in this country? That's the question you have to be able to give a reasonable answer to. And what makes it justified to impose on the Information Society's fund an obligation on no other landowners in this country? I have not heard any response to that either. Random transfers to random persons — yes, it is arbitrary to discriminate between landowners, as arbitrary as it is to discriminate against other citizens, of course. So the probability is that you pick 3 pst. of all landowners in this country and give them a gift from the State. I should have liked to have heard the Council of State comment on what I placed great emphasis on in my statement, namely that in any case the requirement of soundness follows from the Basic Law Section 19 and Section 10 of the Liability Act, which opens up the possibility that state councils acting in the manner that members of the Government have done in this matter may be charged with national law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e347	With regard to the liability law and more – I kept saying – the criminal policy aspect that the representative of the pay side draws on this, I think it is a completely irrelevant issue, mainly because we are here in an area of political assessments of, among other things. what is sound and it has been carried out by the Government in a sound manner. I also believe that the debate here today has shown that there is varying the basis for drawing one or the other conclusion. That’s what’s part of politics – what’s important. For some here, the most important thing is to fence property, the question of the Information Society's fund. For others, it is more important to contribute to creating reasonable redemption for many parties who have a great need, among other things. clarifying the property — security of future and security of owner-occupied dwellings. I have difficulty seeing that the political balance that is to be made would bring anyone into criminal liability, whether it was on the right or the left. The closest thing to criminal policy in the field of land-fixing policy is that land-fixing policy is misplaced under criminal policy in the Soria Moria Declaration, but it is an accidental mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e354	Gunnar Gundersen has spoken once and gets up to 10 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e357	This is just a little comment to the Council of State, in and of itself to the Kristoffersen as well. There have been no good explanations as to why landowners should be discriminated against in Norway. That's what we're doing here. The general access to land was provided by the Law on Landfills, and a balance was made between investments and how land prices had developed. You can agree or disagree with that, but at least it was established. Now we're out there and we're asking the OVF to further subsidize fasteners, and that in a very random way. There's been a lot of stories about that. There are probably Santas who don't get a gift, and then there are many who get significant gifts – up to 90 p.m., which I was in – and gifts that are approaching 1 million. kr. It's a paradox of a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e364	It was the post from Gerd Janne Kristoffersen that made me take the floor. Here, fasteners and property owners are treated almost under the same premise of predictability. That is precisely what is at the heart of this matter, that those who have entered and attached property have related to the predictability of the law that property owners have also done. So this is where the rules of the game change along the way. That's what I think it is. In addition, at the end of the debate I would say that I think it is striking that a majority government, when, after all, there is such great doubt and degree of disagreement in a matter as this according to our Constitution, still chooses to trump through the matter in this way. That's what I think is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e373	We are approaching the end of the morning meeting. Is there any objection that we continue the debate beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed? – That is not the case, then it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e378	The representative's salary says that the Lamentation's task is, of course, to guarantee the quality of the Odelsting's decision. Of course it is. You can even frustrate Odelsting's decision. At least one late Odel Sting’s decision may be taken. But after the Creation was agreed, and we are a so-called Ministry of Business, the representative puts the pay even in an earlier debate criteria for why should once again run a new debate on a matter that has been dealt with in Odelstinget. The criterion set by the representative himself was that at least one had to present something new in the debate. I haven't been able to see it. When you hear the reading of posts that I have heard in Odelstinget, I thought it was in this business ministry's time to drag the debate a little far when you can't get anything new.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e385	I really didn't intend to participate in this debate, but I think the last statement deserves a response. To characterize the Creation as a ‘business ministry’ as long as it is legally operational, I think it's a mess. I think it really deserved the president's appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e393	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e402	We then go to voting in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox There is a proposal from the representative on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: It is recommended that Odelstingen should refer to the legislative proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e420	The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03-upper.ana.ud317e434	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
