ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e76	The representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland County: Synnove Fire Klemetrud For the Province of Rogaland: Siri A. Meling For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Cecilie Thaule Løvlid For South-Trundellag County: Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth The requested alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, is requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative of Øystein Djupedal, due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the South Trøndelag County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e120	Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik is present and will take the seat. An application for sick leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Saera Khan from 14 October until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for Oslo, Karin Yrvin, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget from 14 October to 24 October, under the permission of the representative Saera Khan, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of Oslo, Karin Yrvin and Khalid Mahmood are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e150	Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e156	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e163	On behalf of Svein Flätten, Per-Kristian Foss, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to set up a professionally based sample that assesses the dynamic effects of reduced taxes on work and wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e168	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will point out that when the Storting comes to Case No. 8 – it could be about approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 14.15 – there is reason to expect that there will be a need to call for a vote on the procedure for the case. There may be a need to go beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16, to avoid the evening meeting. But this is what the President will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e184	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e200	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e216	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 181]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e234	As I refer to in my interpellation text, the topic of nutrition in the care of the elderly has been the subject of several debates and studies, without it seem that we have come any further in order to correct the problem. Over the years, we have seen a number of reports about elderly people who are so undernourished that they have to be sent to hospitals, about the elderly who are starving, about the caregivers who feel that they have too little time to make sure that hospital residents get enough food and fluids, etc. In connection with my preparation for this interpellation, I went into Google and applied for the words ‘undernourishment in hospitals’. Then I got 1,670 hits. Among other things, I could read about the Social and Health Directorate’s own study, as referred to in the Municipal Report of 19 February 2007, that between 20 and 50 pst. by the elderly in Norwegian nursing homes are undernourished. Of course, the causes of malnutrition can be many. Some of the examples may include disease outcomes, drug side effects, lack of time and resources in hospitals, dissatisfaction, etc. Nor shall one ignore the fact that the lack of follow-up to dental health can also be a contributing cause. In the same article, the then vice president of the Norwegian Nursing Association, Unni Hembre, said that she was not surprised by the figures. She further shows that malnutrition weakens both physical and mental health, making it more difficult to treat the diseases that he has. In the newspaper Dagens Medisin nr. 8 this year, dated March 6th, can read about nursing homes in Rogaland as hungry. It is shown in this connection to a municipal hospital in Sandnes where the residents fell in weight, without either the nurses or the doctors responding. In fact, nothing happened until the relatives themselves contacted the county doctor. A supervisory report was then prepared, which concluded that the municipality did not have proper control that the elderly received enough food. A second study in 2003, carried out by students and professionals at the Buskerud High School, showed by weight that two out of three hospital wards were either undernourished or in danger of becoming so. I could still for a long time frame similar stories and surveys that show the same thing. But that's not the purpose of this interpellation. I believe that everyone in this room recognises that malnutrition has become a problem for the elderly in Norway. It is therefore important to take this step forward in order to put in place instruments to counteract this situation. What was the purpose of the interpellation when I sent it in on 29 May this year was just to get ahead of this work. I am very pleased that on 20 August this year the Social and Health Directorate has finally sent out new technical guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition. The consultation period is set at 1 November this year. It is very good in the guidelines that have been sent to the hearing. However, it is also important for one to ensure that one not only aims to identify the cases where malnutrition has become a fact, but that one must also have a much greater focus on how to prevent malnutrition — and not least on the causal context. As I said, I would also like to thank the Council of State for having done this after so long. It is positive that something is happening in this case. I look forward to having new guidelines in place in this important area. I now want to take some areas that I think we need to take seriously in the time to come. The first is that we need to get more knowledge about the relationship between health and diet. It is obvious — at least in several studies — that knowledge on the theme, among other things, is for those working in the health sector, too small. The Social and Health Directorate also writes in its own guidelines on the matter that we need to put in place more knowledge and expertise on the subject. I think that's incredibly important, because we can't solve the problems without seeing the relationship between the problem and the actual conditions. That's very good. Another theme that I want to mention is the way food is presented in institutions. It's also important. As a local politician in my home municipality, Ålesund, I have to say that there is one thing I regret bitterly. I bitterly regret that in its time I was involved in introducing a system of central kitchens in the municipality and placing the kitchens in the hospitals. I think this has to do with well-being. I think it is important to know both that you can smell food and that you make sure that the quality of the food that is presented is very good – that it should look delicious. We who are healthy, we all know how important it is that the food that is presented to us, both looks good, smells good and is presented in a nice way. Then it's all the more important that the same thing gets the sick part, because this is so incredibly important. Furthermore, it's quite obvious that we have to have enough staff, so that you have time to make sure you give the food that's going to. Not everyone is able to eat by themselves. It is also a fact that in many hospitals today, it is so busy that you have problems with having meals for the patients. I experienced this myself when I visited a nursing home a little over a year ago and among other things. helped to feed patients who had difficulty swallowing. Something else that is very important to get in place is the patient's influence. Medical care services, including for food and what is presented, are important. Something you might want to consider is food supplements in some people, and that it might be a way to go. We've seen a lot of problems, and you might want to look at what's relevant to weighing. One must not least look at the cooperation between the trade unions, because they actually have to know who is responsible for what. In this context, the medical coverage in our hospitals may be extremely important, in order to be able to see the causal relationship. Could it be that there are side effects with medicines that make him lose his appetite? Could it be that he is so weakened by illness that that's what makes him unable to eat? We also know that many older people give a signal that you can't do more by stopping eating. It could also be that it might have to do with dental health. In this respect, I would like to refer to the law on dental services § 1-3 point (c), which applies to groups of elderly people, long-term ill and disabled people in institutions and home care. This law concerns the organisation of prevention activities for the whole population by the public dental services. Regular outreach services are to be provided to those mentioned, i.e. the group of elderly people, long-term sickness and disability in institutions. We are constantly getting feedback that in the case of dental health in an institution, there is reason to ask questions about getting the help that is needed. We know a lot about those who live in the institution, and it is easier to access information about the health situation. But I think we also have to have a different focus, and it's those who live at home. I think there might be a lot of darkness there. In this case, we don't just have to focus on the nursing homes; we also have to scale up to those who live at home. Because when malnutrition occurs and you don't get enough food, your health is also falling dramatically. I look forward to the debate and hope that we have a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e264	Let me just start by saying that I think it is an important matter that the representative Nesvik travels. I remember well from earlier periods of ageing where former representative John I. Alvheim repeatedly addressed this topic. And as also mentioned in the interpellation, superior Thomas Bohemia has been an important professional voice in the debate. I am absolutely sure that central health policymakers and central professionals are constantly raising debates, contributing to some of the issues that are also the subject of the interpellation, focusing on the area. Although it's not enough just to refer to attitudes, because it has to be more than that, I'm absolutely sure that attention, focus and attitudes are part of the answer we have to give in the matter. Health services can certainly improve food and nutrition. This applies not only to vitamins and nutrients, but also to what can arouse the appetite and make the meal a pleasant event — whether it is home service that brings the food or it is served in a nursing home. I have recorded that the discussion goes high in many municipalities if you want to choose food from the kitchen or have your own kitchen in the hospital wards. I have also recorded that the meals at some institutions are more adapted to the rotation of employees than the needs of users. Several places can also take a very long time from the people who have eaten dinner and dinner to lunch. According to the Health Inspectorate, there is a failure of local government care services in the field of nutrition. However, supervision does not justify making such claims as the representative Nesvik refers to in his interpellation. We have a quite fresh survey of food and meals in the hospital, which the kitchen and hospital staff have been on. It shows that a lot is good, but also that a lot can get better in several areas. We are also waiting for data from studies conducted among residents in hospitals. The results of these can tell us what users think about the food they get. But the problem should by no means be minimized. Undernourishment is a significant problem in hospitals, in hospitals and among those using home services. This requires great political and professional attention. This is why the Government — from the very beginning — has taken several steps to ensure good care for the elderly, including in food, meals and nutrition. As the representative Nesvik was also involved in his interpellation, this is related to the general situation in the care of the elderly. I would like to stress that the strengthening of the local economy, which has contributed to the fact that there has been over 11,000 more annual shifts in the care service in 2006 and 2007, is also important in this context. By strengthening the number of annual works, we ensure that several users receive the help they need at meals, as the quality regulation requires. In the Storing Communication on Future Care Challenges, St.meld. No 25 for 2005–06, we announced the launch of research, user surveys and monitoring of diet and nutritional status among care service users. This was also underlined in the Government’s Better Diet Plan, which covers the period 2007–2011. After this, the Health Directorate has examined food and meals in nursing homes. The study shows that it is very positive to say about the provision of food in hospitals. Hospitals are occupied with good food, pleasant meals and good facilities for the users. Nutritional emphasis is high and staff are well informed about dietary guidelines in healthcare institutions. However, the study also revealed several issues that were not quite as good, but that the managers of the hospital and the kitchen want to continue working with. Among other things, the staff, who were also involved by the representative Nesvik, want to gain more knowledge of nutrition and better practices on how to obtain an overview of the nutritional status of users. The findings of the study are in line with the Health Inspectorate’s assessment of the nutritional situation in hospitals: When it fails in this area, it appears that it is due to a lack of knowledge and practical follow-up of routines. As I said in the introduction, attitudes are important, knowledge is important, but not enough in itself. It also has to be routine. When you go with a human being day after day, week after week, it's not always as easy to bring him down to weight. That's why it has to be weighed, and you have to have routines for it. We shall follow up the study on food and meals in nursing homes. That is why I have asked the Health Directorate to consider what can be done to ensure better quality of food and meals in the care service. The Health Directorate shall also assess the need for a separate user study in relation to food and meals in hospitals. As part of the follow-up to the action plan on better diet in the population, the Health Directorate is to test models to improve nutrition skills in municipalities. This work is evaluated at the end of the action plan period, i.e. 2011. The aim is to disseminate good experience to several municipalities. The Health Directorate has established a form to be used to monitor the nutritional status of hospitals and home care. There are also recommendations on nutrition and physical activity that should be used as guidelines for planning the diet for different groups. The Health Directorate has also begun its work on revising dietary guidelines in health institutions, in cooperation with the Food Authority. National guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition are now being consulted, on which the interpellant was involved. The aim of these guidelines is that persons who are undernourished — or at risk — in hospitals, hospitals and home care should be followed up in a better way than at present. These guidelines include information and recommendations on actions that may be taken by these persons. Work on reducing malnutrition is also important in an interaction perspective. Good interaction between hospitals and municipalities is important to ensure that nutritional work is followed up well across levels. If those at risk of malnutrition are detected and followed up early, we may prevent or delay disease and complications. Some hospitalisations are also likely to be avoided with better prevention work in municipalities. Some studies also suggest that hospital lay time is reduced by systematic nutritional work. Finally, I would like to point out again that food and meals are more than nourishment, although of course it is the most important thing. It's taste, smell, experience, culture, tradition, identity and often sharing with others. Good and healthy food and good meals help increase appetite and are about caring for the overall needs of the elderly, both for the body and the soul.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e296	First, I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for its response. I think we're reasonably in line with the fact that it's important to focus on this and take action. The Council of State was also concerned that I am promoting a number of claims in my interpellation. I don't think that's what I'm saying. I have referred to studies and relationships that have been found in articles from others, so that's probably not something I've invented myself. The Council of State indicated that there are now 11,000 more annual works in the care sector. Now there is probably a certain debate both in the Department and in the Municipal Councils on how these annual works are to be used. I'm not going into that debate. But at least I have to say that feedback from a number of municipalities with regard to savings measures makes me worried. When Sula's municipality in More and Rome's valley blocks all its hospitals, it's a warning. When the municipality of Kristiansund, also in More and Romesdal, has fewer hospitals today than a year ago, while having ready-to- print patients in the hospital, it also worries those who are signed. There are a number of such feedbacks that are important to take with them. You have to focus on what's involved in time. You have to have time to have a quiet meal with those who live in a nursing home. If you have a bumpy environment around you, it's less tempting to sit down to eat. You need time. You also have to be able to make and serve the food properly. It's clear that it's going to fold in large metal trays with food in a dining room, then to stand there and just pour out, put the food out and then try to get the patients to eat the food as soon as possible, not the citizen for a nice and good meal. We have a long way to go, but it happens very well. I hope that these guidelines come into place quickly. The hearing period shall be 1 November. I would warn against just having a big focus – as I said in my introduction here – on revealing the problem, but we also need to make sure that we focus on how we can get better, what action to take, how to get good meals, what to do, among other things. in the field of education, and how to give those who work in institutions the opportunity to acquire the skills they need in the field of diet and nutrition. I'm looking forward to something happening in the area, and I'm glad that there's a focus on this. It's doing a lot of good out there, let me say it! It's doing incredibly well out there, so that's not where the problem lies. I think a lot of the problem is having time for the patient, for the good conversation and for the good meal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e309	Just a little formal at first: I did not say that the representative Nesvik promoted certain claims. What I said was that the representative Nesvik ‘refers’ to claims, and that certainly does the representative in his interview. Leave it alone! What I think is a very important point in everything, is that everything is related to everything. Clearly, if we are able to improve the overall quality of care in the care sector in the elderly, we are also able to strengthen the situation regarding nutrition and the importance of the meal. When employees feel that time does not go away, it goes beyond all parts of their everyday life, including food. This is why working on the general situation, the overall quality of care in the care sector, is part of this work. I think that both the interpellant and I agree that in addition, some extra attention is needed on this with nutrition, because the consequences of nutritional failure are dramatic for those involved. And I think that, as I said, is about knowledge, it's about attitudes, and it's about the general situation. But it's also about procedures related to nutrition and weight, and not just allowing yourself to observe it in a general way, but having systems related to e.g.: relate to weight and weighing at specified intervals. It is the sum of major, more overarching measures that are important, down to the micro level — practices involving the individual user, whether home-based or institution-based care. In the end, I agree with Agent Nesvik that when we say that knowledge is important, it is important how we communicate it, so that we really get the knowledge of those who work in the services. I think the experiences we've had, based on the teaching homes, are quite important. We see that knowledge developed in teaching homes is well disseminated in enterprises, and the fact that we are now also developing teaching home services is an action that can contribute to good communication of competences also in home-based services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e320	The question asked by the interpellant is large and complex. One thing is nutrition just considered to be food and drink, but the field is – as mentioned from this pulpit – larger than that. It has to be put in a context, as both the Council of State and the interpellant have now been involved in their contributions. There have been many studies over time to show that patients in hospitals or hospitals are under-eating — for various reasons. There have also been many bad reports of people starved in their heels or having terrible bad food, as it says in the interpellation text, and to which Nesvik refers. It shouldn't be like that – if it's right. But in my opinion, parts of the picture are missing. Malnutrition in the elderly is widespread for many reasons and, therefore, underweights will often occur. This, in turn, will lead to an increased risk of disease and longer rehabilitation and convalescence than necessary. What we know is that the physical energy needs of the elderly are reduced, while the need for nutrients is still present. It is therefore important to look at the composition of food for the elderly, because they eat less experience. The food doesn't taste like before, the solitude makes it not as pleasant to eat the food alone. Psychiatric disorders, dementia, medical side effects or a busy food situation may also be obstacles. For some older people, not eating, like the last function they actually have control of, and they themselves can decide, can be their way of saying that now I'm not leaning anymore. When the interpellant refers to the claim from Strand, I do not quite know myself. Most people, if not all who work in the care sector, are concerned that caregivers should receive good deals and care. That food should be so bad, I hurt to believe. I have visited many places, I have also worked many places, and I have experienced that food is an important part of everyday life. But it can be done very much based on better knowledge of what it takes to get the right composition and a tasty meal that both smells good and looks good. The surroundings around a cozy table, a cosy gathering, tranquillity or meals are important, as the council says. Knowledge of what prevents people from eating, what needs to be done, knowledge of what the alternatives are, and seeing the whole about nutrition are important. Therefore, the level of competence laid down in St.meld is. No 25 for 2005–2006, to be added. In the recipe for a healthier Norway, the government has taken up the challenge of finding the good solutions. Also in St.meld. No Some good solutions are available in relation to the elderly in institutions, where food and the environment are focused. Many municipalities run food housing, as the interpellant says. I have also been involved in centralizing the kitchen, even though I was against it that time. I'm glad there's more to see. The smell of food before a meal is actually an appetizer for those who live there. Is the food good enough in the centralized kitchen? Does it look good? Does it have the right composition? It's important to get answers. In the 2009 state budget, we also see that nutrition has been given place in several chapters, which means that the theme is taken seriously by the current government. The action plan for a better diet in the population, as I mentioned earlier, has many elements in it that just focus on what can be done. Health businesses have also been given a mandate to follow this up in their activities. As I started with, nutrition is not just dependent on food. Another thing that's important, which also interpellant was inside, is good oral care and good teeth that work. Many older people are struggling with pain in teeth and mouth, and there is something that needs to be more focused. Providing good dental care in an institution improves the nutritional situation. It takes a short time for good teeth to be damaged, if this is not taken care of. In the draft state budget, we can see that there are now grants for the development of educational material on oral housing for the training of hospital and home care staff, which I believe is the right way to go. There is also a notice of increased access to dentists, and they may work in the same service. It's also necessary. Governments were involved in a strengthened municipal economy. There are several hands, more time and more peace around the food situation. Good food is an important part of life for everyone, and it's important throughout life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e341	It's a very important topic that the interpellant here addresses. As he was inside, this is a topic that has been discussed for many, many years. The problem of hunger and malnutrition among sick and old people has been discussed with great experience both among professionals and politicians, and the question is whether there has been any change, and whether it has become better. It may sometimes seem that the health care system has been, and still is, of the opinion that nutrition is a task for housekeepers and not an element of a patient treatment. There is a cross of thought where we are concerned that the car, the boat and the lawn mower get the right mix so as not to destroy the machinery, while the body machinery strives to get the same status. The supervision of home services in a number of municipalities has shown that there is an ongoing lack of routines to identify the kind of food that older people want and what home-service users actually eat and drink. Several municipal home services do not take account of the individual needs of users, so that they can influence the kind of food they receive. The consequences for the elderly are greatly reduced quality of life, increased risk of death, twice as many hospitalisations and longer hospitalisations, which were also covered by the Council of State. The health inspectorate revealed in a municipality a year ago dehydrated and subnutrited the elderly and the dentures that were not discovered. The safety of many elderly people living at home is too poor, and too many caregivers are involved in care so that responsibility becomes unclear, there is a powdering of responsibilities. One user in the home service had 27 different home visits during a week. It speaks for itself. There is evidence of system failure, and there is evidence of a lack of quality control. Studies show that there are, in particular, three areas of failure. There are too many unskilled people, there is a need for more time and better skills, and there is a need for better practices to improve the situation. I do not want to blame the individual added to the care of the elderly. Local government, along with the management of home services, must take responsibility for the situation, and it is those who set the framework conditions. Nursing parents also struggle with malnutrition, reports from the Health Authority. As many people have been involved, between 20 and 50 pst. undernourished, shows studies by the Directorate for Social and Health. When we know that most elderly people in nursing homes have five, six active diagnoses, in other words they are very ill, and when we know that malnutrition weakens both physical and mental health, this also makes it more difficult to treat the diseases. Many health institutions and home services are simply too poor to detect patients at risk. There is a need for more medical care, which can also see the link between medicine and malnutrition. Staff lack knowledge and procedures to weigh and monitor the development of the elderly. Many people are struggling with poor appetite or dental problems that make it problematic with a lot of food. Nor is the diet adapted to the individual patient’s needs. So the result is demagoguement and serious diseases. I think this is a very serious situation. There is, as many have been involved, more knowledge of nutrition that is needed. It is very good – I have seen that with my own eyes – both in hospitals and in hospitals in this area. There have been some positive changes, not least thanks to Thomas Bohemia's superior efforts, which were also discussed by the Council of State. He has been a strong professional voice. I also know that the nurses' association has had this theme on the agenda. It is also reassuring to hear that the Government takes this seriously and will follow-up through the measures described by the Council of State. But although it is very good that has been done, there is still a lot of work left. I can imagine asking that the Council of State, in the spring, in an appropriate way, informs the Storting about the progress of the measures that the Council of State has now described. I think it's important that we keep this matter in focus, and that we still come back to this topic. There are a lot of issues, such as quality control, both at home, in hospitals and in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e358	I would like to thank the representative Harald Nesvik for addressing this important issue. Unfortunately, undernourishment and misnutrition continue to be on the agenda at regular intervals. Severe malnutrition in elderly patients has been documented in several studies. This applies to both residents and patients in institutions. The interpellant mentioned a recent example of a look-up in today's medicine in March this year, where patients were losing weight without the specialist staff reacting at all, and that there were relatives who had to alert the Health Service, who were then overseeing. The conclusion of the supervisory report was that the municipality did not have proper control over whether the elderly received enough food. And this is a pretty fresh example. What's interesting is that there were failures in the most elementary, basic relationships, namely that patients were not weighed. We know that in many places you don't weigh patients when they get to the hospital, and how do you know how it goes on during your stay? It was also such that the staff did not at all follow the changes in weight. We've also seen that a lot of weights just don't work well enough. So simple, basic things are missing. The councils were also at an important point, namely a great distance between the meal in the evening and the first meal in the morning. Up to 15 hours can go by, and it's clear that it's too long when you might not be able to take that much food in each meal. One question many ask is how it is possible for elderly people under public care in Norway to starve in 2008. The consequences we know are many. Lack of nutrition makes the elderly dull and tired. Medicins can have a different effect when patients eat too little. The immune system is weakened, and infections are more easily absorbed. All of this reduces the quality of life of the elderly. Of course, we can't accept this when we know about it. The Christian People's Party is committed to the rights of the elderly, to ensuring that older people are properly cared for and safe to meet their basic needs. That is also why we proposed to introduce a guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly. This guarantee shall be governed by law, regulation or administrative provisions and shall also give real grounds for complaint if it is not enforced. One of the eleven points of the guarantee of dignity relates to nutrition: ‘No one shall experience malnutrition. Meals shall be provided to all.’» Last year the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, agreed to introduce the guarantee of dignity. I must admit that I was disappointed when the state budget came and it was not mentioned in one word. What does that mean? Does this mean that it does not come in this great period? There's less than one year left for the election. It is now the case that the guarantee of dignity should be properly designed in the context of the work on common health and social legislation. But what makes me think about it is that I have found in the budget so far only a few sentences on the follow-up to the Bernt Committee's position, and there's nothing on content or progress. On the contrary, it says that more issues need to be addressed. Should the elderly have to wait for further investigations? Do we need a new government before the elderly are given clear rights, as the guarantee of dignity? It doesn't shine with the care of the elderly yet – in some places I think it actually starts to shine, but not everywhere at all – although thousands of employees do a fantastic job for the sick and needy elderly. Low staffing, many unskilled and large sick leave characterize the workplaces of those who today care for the sickest of the elderly. The new positions in the care sector have been of little benefit to the sickest of the elderly. Unfortunately, in many places we hear about manning reductions. This must also be included when discussing the nutritional situation of many older people. The representative of Nesvik was also involved in this. Clear rights, with the right of appeal and sanctions, would have to force improvements for the sickest and most caring elderly. Finally, a retired nurse who lives abroad called me this summer. She has had extra shifts or been a holiday week in the last few summers. She said it this way: It's never been so bad manning, we've never had it as tough as we've had this year, in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e393	This is a debate that is close to all of us. In recent years, I've been leading several grandparents through the final phase of life and seeing how important it is to be able to trust home care in one phase, and nursing homes in the next phase, and how much it means not only to the one who's old, but also to the relatives and everyone around. Now I'm lucky to live in a municipality where this works very well. I live in a small municipality where care for both my grandfather and my grandmother has been very good. When we in Norway have chosen to leave responsibility for kindergartens and nursing homes to the municipalities – that is, both the smallest of us, in kindergarten, and the oldest of us, in nursing homes – we need to be aware that it is a very great responsibility for those who have been given that responsibility. Good nutrition and good meals are some of the things that create quality in life, also in that part of life where you are on your last days. I think the interpellation starts very stupid, because I think the theme is so good. It starts with simple claims that we feed, as it says, the older ones worse than we feed animals. I think that kind of statement is just trying to fool a debate that's very important. First of all, it's directly wrong, because I think there's very few places you can find examples like this. I think whoever wrote this also knows very little about how animals are fed. And we don't feed the elderly, we feed. I think most people also give the food in a very worthwhile and good way, and those who work in home care and in nursing homes also take time – and time – to provide food in many ways. It is precisely in time that the Government has chosen to use so many resources – I was in the municipal committee before – to strengthen the local economy. We know that no matter what national guidelines and rules and what rights we introduce here, it doesn't help if we don't have people to do the job. That is the main reason why we have chosen to spend more than 20 billion extra kroner in the municipal sector, and that we have thus received 11,000 new annual works in the care sector. This allows more people to have time and more to find the room to take the extra coffee cup with their grandmother or grandfather sitting in a nursing home. So we in the Center Party are absolutely sure that the direction we've started, that is, by strengthening the local government's economy, is the right direction. Without people, it doesn't help with guidelines. We also fully agree with the direction that the Hanssen Council draws up, that we should have clear national guidelines that provide guidance for those who work in home care. But we don't have faith in a law and a right-holding without a good resource base at the bottom, and we believe that this government has contributed, and we're also going to contribute to it further. Then there will also be national guidelines that, over time, can ensure better provision for most people. Because when we in Norway have chosen to organise the ‘first stage of life’ and the ‘last stage of life’, I tend to say that it is the municipalities that have a lot of care in general, it is important that there are enough people and that quality is good. Then there is a need for guidelines, but basically people are needed. And I believe that the government has now contributed greatly, but we are not in goal, and we have to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e410	I would also like to thank the representative Nesvik for having raised this interpellation debate today. Nutrition for the elderly is important, and perhaps one of the most important things for the elderly to have a good and worthwhile life in the final phase of life. Poor and inadequate nutrition among sick hubarbs, especially among older hubarbs, has been given a certain – perhaps special – focus in the last. This includes: stated that the knowledge of nutrition for sick hubarbs is deficient in Scandinavia, and that Norway is the worst in the class. An interview survey showed that only 16 pst. health professionals in hospitals replied that they systematically assessed the nutritional status of their patients, and lack of knowledge, it was explained that was the main cause of the lack of practice. At the same time, they replied that they still felt that nutrition issues were important. So here it's a great potential for contraction. The older the longer they live in a hospital than they do in a hospital. Difor is food and nutrition even more important here. Older people are more likely than younger people to suffer from debilitating diseases. In most cases, long-term diets give rise to non-specific symptoms. The danger is that health professionals ignore — as we have also heard many other sayings — symptoms, or misinterpret them as ‘normal’ age changes, and therefore do not look for cause and effect as rentals for debilitating diseases. There's been more than one taste in it. Older people get to lose their sense of taste. More than anyone else, they need appetizers. The smell of food from the hospital kitchen certainly contributed as an appetizer. And as we've heard, unfortunately, many of the hospital kitchens are closed down in the name of rationality. I think that here we should send some signals that this should be turned on. Of course, routine meals, which are the situation in most hospitals, are not adapted to the fact that all bebours, individually, are individuals with each individual taste and say appetite. I think you can do a lot more when it comes to customization, for example. it must be possible to have more meals than the standard one. In this debate, I just have to say that most of the older people live at home, and many are alone in the last time of their lives. This is the most important group to focus on, even in the case of nutrition. And then, as usual, we have to point out especially to single older people, who are a group that we have to take extra care of. For this reason, home care professionals and home care professionals are very important to ensure that older home care professionals have satisfactory diets. Nutrition work should be a permanent part of the programme of home services. All stages of the health care chain, hospitals, hospitals and home services need to be organised and systematised to ensure good nutrition. I expect the Council of State in its work on the interaction work to have this done on the block. Malnutrition usually starts while the elderly live at home. One reason for this is that many older people have bad teeth, which others have been in. The mouth is the main entrance to the digestive tract. Pain and sores in the oral cavity do not exactly encourage one to get food. Good dental health is so important, even for the general health. The left believes that the minimum pensioners and home builders of the elderly with disabilities should receive free dental treatment. This will give many older people a much better life, and I think it also makes socio-economic sense. In the end, I would like to point out – as many others have said – that knowledge is the key here. The knowledge among health professionals about nutrition for the elderly and the sick is too poor. The health professionals themselves are calling for more knowledge. So I think there's got to be a hard noise here. Both universities, universities and health institutions must contribute to a direct knowledge-raising in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e429	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate, and for trying to stick to the interpellation. I'm not going to go into any debate about whether the local economy has received an incredibly large strengthening, or whether sufficient resources are being put into new annual works, etc., but a few comments I feel are in place. To the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum I would like to say the following: It would have been desirable if the representative had read the interpellation properly, because it is not signed that opens in this way. If I had changed what was originally written, I could have been charged with quote fraud. Therefore, it is important that the claim that we ‘feed’ is correctly reproduced, as it was just from doctor Roald Strand. That was his word, not mine. I say in my interpellation text that the claim is monstrous, just so it's fixed. It's important that we get started quickly. The hearing period for the regulations that have been issued is 1 November of this year. I hope that the Council of State will subsequently be able to give some signals that, when the consultation period is over, the focus will be on speeding up the actions that have been identified. So, of course, it'll take some time to get the staff to put in place in the care sector. Personally, I look forward to a debate related to interaction between the different levels of healthcare. I hope it comes to Stortinget, and I'd like to look at it in the current growing-up period. Something that has been a small part of the debate is that we may also have to think alternatively. We talk a lot about the traditional diet. But I also think it is important that we look at the possibility of food supplements, etc., so that we ensure that the elderly get the vitamins and other things they need, and then we might have to think a little untraditional. But the most important thing, I think, is what many people have been about: we need time to give this care, and we need to have that staff in place that makes us have this time. We have to have the skills, and it's possible that we actually have to go even further than just to pursue further education. Perhaps State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen should talk to Councillor Solhjell about whether one should also look at this in the educational cycle of these groups, so that there can be a greater part of the education, for the faster one enters and is told how important the relationship between diet and health is, the more likely it is that we can succeed in getting these things in place. I look forward to a significant improvement in this sector, but as I said, it does very well out there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e443	I think it has been interesting to attend my first interpellation debate as Minister of Health and Care. I see that this is knowledge and competence that challenges us and the Department and the Government in many ways. I'm just going to make a few comments on a good debate. To the first thing that the interpellant himself had, i.e. these national guidelines, which have a consultation deadline set for 1 November, and wanted them to be implemented as quickly as possible, I just want to say that we will of course ensure that it can happen as quickly as possible. However, it is a little difficult to say how extensive it is, before the consultation period has expired. I believe that if there is a great deal of applause about the proposal, it will go faster than if there is a great deal of opposition to the proposal. But I take with me that you think this is important, and that it should not be associated with the implementation, with the implementation. The representative, Sjøli, asked that I be properly informed about the progress and status of the work on nutrition, and I have noticed that. So I am not going to use the opportunity to polemise against the representatives of the Storting in this matter, but let me nevertheless answer as follows: In the case of the state budget and the agreement between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party, I would say that in the state budget we have followed up the part of the agreement that is about the state budget. Point by point in that agreement we have followed up on the state budget. This applies from the cultural walking stick to the construction of nursing homes. Then I agree that there are parts of the agreement that will have their follow-up in other forms, for example. the guarantee of dignity. We fully agree with the agreement, so we will ensure that we follow it up the way we have signed it, and thus point by point shows that the areas other than those relating to the State budget will also be followed up by the Government. It does not shine in the Norwegian care sector. However, it is a fact that during 2006 and 2007, there have been 11,000 more annual shifts in the care and care sectors, and during the previous ageing period there were 500 more. So it's the central statistical agency that counts. So you could say that the Central Statistical Office can't count. That could be an interesting debate in itself. But according to the Central Statistical Office, it's been like this. So you could say, well, that doesn't make everything shine. But it's very difficult to make it worse when there's 11,000 more employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e456	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e472	Our health services are constantly changing. A look back in history shows that the number of sick people has fallen, especially in recent years. Medical developments have made it possible to reduce bedtime. What was previously a complicated procedure and meant several weeks in a hospital, could now perhaps be done in one day. On the other hand, we are facing major demographic changes in the years ahead. By 2050 there will be twice as many older people as today. Older people spend longer time recovering from disease and injury than younger people. Furthermore, we know that lifestyle diseases are increasing, with the associated increased need for healthcare. We will have a population that will have growing expectations of health services and increasingly demands both for what to treat and for the quality of services. It will therefore be essential to optimise the use of resources for health. Then it is also important to dimension the hospital offer correctly. Health South-East regional health companies are now undergoing a major change in their hospital services. In this context, there is evidence of overcapacity in hospitals in the Oslo area. This appears to be based on models from the mid-1990s and scenarios for non-politically treated or publicly known developments. Today's bed count, i.e. the basis for being said to be overcapacity also seems to be too high. Hospitals have been streamlined over several years, while two to three years old bed figures are out of date — and these are the underlying ones. If you're thinking about capacity, today's bed figures need to be quality assured with the hospitals, and they need to be up-to-date. Future bed requirements in Health South-East are calculated by SINTEF Health. Assessments have included scenarios that indicate major changes in the use of hospitals. The use of hospitals is very interesting, and there is also a maximum political question. The health services we want should serve as the basis for assessing bed needs. Once again, I want to show that older people account for a large proportion of hospitalisations. It is essential that hospitalisation ensures the dignity of patients. A report from Akershu University Hospital reports that many elderly people die shortly after discharge, and that is unfortunate. The reason could be that patients are printed out when they are dying, or that patients might not have been admitted to hospital in the first place. In one alternative from SINTEF Health, all lying times are reduced by 25 pst., while no one is to be hospitalised more than one day before surgery, and almost all under 70 years of short bedtime are to be treated as daytime patients. So first you take out the patients who have a short sleep time, and expect that the sleep time of those who are left, that is, the very sick, can be reduced by 25 pst. below the average of the day. To me it seems quite unlikely. For elderly patients in areas with long distances and long travel times and poor continuity of community health services, this may be difficult. I have so far talked about somatic matters, but there are corresponding weaknesses in capacity assessments in psychiatry and drug use. The model also concludes that 900 daily places can be laid down and 2300 annual works can be completed in the field of mental health protection. I fear that the ground material would lead to undercapacity rather than overcapacity by 2025, and that health south-east could be in danger of making unfortunate choices on behalf of future patients. Such changes in bedtime also increase the pressure on municipal health services. A reduced number of beds in hospitals must involve a similar construction of municipal care facilities as short-term areas for rehabilitation and relief services at the end of life, in order to mention something. Then it is that the Government has proposed, in its proposal for a government budget, incentives for the new construction or conversion of 1000 nursing homes and nursing homes, where the Government covers 25 pst. the costs of the construction. Let me take one example from my own country: in Hordaland, grants have been applied for so far this year to build far more hospitals than the 100 that will be granted in the county this year. The county of Hordaland will have a difficult task of prioritizing among applications for the construction of 100 sites for the sickest elderly, who will also be included here, sheltered units for demented and organised housing for mentally ill, younger disabled and drug addicts. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the development of nursing homes is proportionate to the needs. Even today, there is demanding cooperation between hospitals and municipalities on ready-to-print patients. Many municipalities lack places of care, nursing places and also skills among employees in order to receive patients and provide them with adequate care and treatment services. An example is the number of ready-to- print jobs at Ullevål University Hospital. In the June newspaper of this year, we read that there are at all times between 30 and 50 patients who are ready-to- print in the hospital, patients who are waiting for care in the municipality of Oslo. This means an extra cost for the hospital of 30 million. kr. There are also many other hospitals. If Health South-East plans for 2015 are to be implemented, it will be very difficult for patients. So the difference between the continuation of today's bedtime and the assumptions in the calculations is only for Health South-East 1 800 fewer beds in 2015. Estimates of lying times also affect the number of corticosteroids. The phenomenon of Corridor Asians will still be a problem if we plan for bedtime in the future too low. Statistics for the first four months of the year show that there were an average of 272 Corridor Asians per day in Norwegian hospitals. It's equal to 2.6 pst. the number of bed days. This is unfortunate — everyone thinks — both for the quality of treatment, safety and the dignity of the individual patient. The government, which is now working on a new funding system, must ensure that it will not be profitable for hospitals with Corridor Asians. Interaction with municipalities must be strengthened, and the future needs for sick beds must also be better planned, I think. At least we have to be sure that there are proper assessments on which to base. We know that the Medical Association is also critical of alleged overcapacity in its consultation response to the capital process. They also refer to errors in the basic material. I am particularly interested in hearing the Council of State's assessment of the errors in the basic material. And will the Council of State examine this further, if he has not already investigated this? The patient projection is based on five scenarios that will imply major changes in the health service: several should be treated at day care rather than hospitalisation, planned but not operated patients should not be present in surgical wards, acute illness should remain on medical care rather than hospitalisation, there should be only a few emergency surgical facilities and – what I have spent most of the time on – shorter bedtime. I have not said that I disagree with this change, and that we should have a shorter bedtime, but it is a huge problem if the municipalities do not have the capacity to accept it. These two runs need to be paralleled, namely by the interaction reform that the Minister of Health is carrying out, and not least with regard to the further construction of hospital beds and care places, where there is enormously poor capacity, account must be taken of this – 1000 places next year, there is nothing. This needs to be better coordinated. After many years of conversion to day treatment and reduced bedtime, the efficiency may start to hit the most vulnerable groups, those who have been screened slightly so far. I am pleased to hear the Council of State's assessment of this projection that he now sees might be coming to a reality in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e512	The objective of healthcare is to provide all patients with the right treatment at the right level. In a continuous treatment chain, this implies that all stages must be dimensioned to provide patients with the services they need. This also applies to the number of hospital beds in the specialist health service. As you know, health south-east RHF is under way with a major development and conversion programme following the merger of Health-South and Health-East in 2007. The aim of the pooling is to improve coordination and exploitation of resources. This applies in the capital area in particular and in the new region in general. Health South-East RHF has been given clear leadership in meeting these objectives. In the context of the capital process, where Health South-East is undergoing hospital structure and functional and task distribution in the specialist health service, Sintef was commissioned to analyse the activity and capacity of Health South-East hospitals. The mission resulted in the report Activity and Capacity Analysis Hospital Areas in Health South-East RHF, to which the representative of Davay pointed out. The report provides an overview of land use and activity in hospital facilities. SINTEF has also analysed a model setting up hospital areas and changes in reception areas, which include the projection of activity and capacity needs. The time limit for the response to the hearing concerning the capital process is 20 October. Finalisation of the Management Board shall be scheduled to take place in November. I have been informed by Health South-East RHF that the numerical basis of the report is not used in the further work in the capital process. The reason is, of course, that Health South-East RHF has been based on today's activity and capacity figures, not on future needs. As the representative pointed out, a number error was also detected in the report. These errors do not affect the conclusion of the report, but Sintef has reviewed the report and corrected the errors. The reference model used in the report by SINTEF has been used by several regional health establishments with a view to providing some information on future needs for hospital resources at national or regional level. I see no difficulty in using forward-looking models when outlining future scenarios, but when final decisions are to be taken, it must of course be based on current organisation, regulation and political leadership. This forward-looking model emphasises that the health service of the future should be a coherent, good-quality treatment chain. In particular, I would like to highlight better work sharing between hospitals, well-functioning emergency services and better interaction at all levels of services. The Soria Moria Declaration, the National Health Plan and the revised National Budget for 2008 provide clear indications. The requirement to focus services on interaction has been followed up in the governance dialogue with regional health companies and the Health Directorate. The new major health reform we are working on – the interaction reform – will have a major impact on the efforts of regional health businesses to dimension the patient service. My claim is that the lack of interaction between the state and the municipality is the biggest obstacle to making healthcare even better. Lack of interaction is also an obstacle to good use of resources. Good systems must be made throughout the treatment chain so that we avoid unnecessary hospitalisation, so that we get rid of the corridor patients, and that ready-to-print patients get a good offer outside the hospital. Patients who may receive treatment as day-care patients or in outpatient clinics should be given it in preference to hospitalisation. Acute recipients shall be organised in such a way that patients are promptly cleared and treated at the appropriate level. In the Soria Moria statement, we have said that we should maintain a decentralised hospital service and that no local hospital should be closed. No local hospital has closed in the period, but changes adopted before the government change have been implemented. On the contrary, local hospitals are being developed to meet the needs of large patient groups such as sick elderly, chronically ill, people with mental disorders, and those in need of treatment for drug problems. These are groups that often need close follow-up and therefore closeness to services. We're going to introduce guidance professional standards in local hospitals that have emergency functions. A distinction is made between local hospitals with emergency functions to be able to handle severely damaged patients and local hospitals with adapted emergency functions. These should be targeted at the large patient groups and patients in need of close follow-up and broad competence. Users depend on the function of municipal health and specialist health services as a continuous treatment chain. This is the overall objective of the capital process and the work done in Health South-East. The reorganisation will have major consequences for many patients and many of the employees. That is why I and my employees in the Ministry of Health and Care follow this work very carefully. Let me add that when we are planning and assessing the capacity needs of the health sector in the coming years, we must, of course, at all times take on the basis of what is the current policy, system and reality. A major challenge for us in the time to come will not in itself be to reduce the length of hospital treatment beyond what is naturally the result of medical and technological development, but to avoid those who do not need to be hospitalized, hospitalized, and that there is an existing municipal service facility to receive when hospital treatment is completed. We have estimated that we are in Norwegian hospitals, for example. In 2007, at least 150,000 laydays with ready-to-print patients. A rough estimate tells us that we used approx. $800 million. I would like to thank you for your advice. I would like to thank you very much for your support. There is no further follow-up to the hospital. You're done in the hospital. At the same time, we experienced that we had a number of municipalities that said, "We want to take him." We recognize that we are responsible for this patient, but we don't have the money to accept the patient. We were in a situation where we at least spent 800 million. kr to give thousands of patients a poor patient offer, while we could probably have spent a much smaller amount to give the same patients a much better offer in the municipality they came from. But we don't get the system to work that way. That's why the patient becomes a throwball in the system, instead of the system being patient-oriented. This is what we are now working on in the interaction reform project. There we ask ourselves the question: what kind of economic and legal changes must be made in the system, so that good interaction will take place due to the system? I know there's a lot of views on this question right here in the hall. I would like to take them with me, but I believe very strongly that no one has so far come up with proposals for such a system. My ambition is at least to get up with it. Then we can take a discussion if that's a good suggestion. There will certainly be a division of views on this. The project we are now working on is just putting the interaction reform work into such a context. Of course, it is part of the debate that the representative Davøy has raised in this interview, and is also the answer to the fact that the future scenario is interesting. But when it comes to making decisions, you always have to deal with reality. Then it's not certain that it's unfavorable to have some scenarios with it, but reality applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e545	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also think that future scenarios are very exciting. It has helped many organisations, businesses and institutions to perhaps dry up thinking a lot more and often much more correctly than they would otherwise have done. I also thank the Council of State for saying that the data as it was is now corrected. Then I expect that the need for nursing care will be different from what I quoted from the Sintef report. The one I quoted from had the wrong number base, as I understood it. I very much agree with the Council of State that interaction is one of the most difficult here and perhaps the real bottleneck in the sector today. We're going to have a lot of debates on this in the future and, of course, we're looking forward to the end of this sample. While there is now a good deal of interaction proposals that have been investigated, in terms of the financing model itself, it is important to find the right incentives for it to emerge in a good way. I am very concerned that we have too many pre-treated patients in hospitals, but today we also have many examples of elderly people living in hospitals who are on a regular route – to say the same – between hospitals and hospitals. Some of the reasons are lack of competence, lack of medical care or lack of competence staff in community health care homes. I'm really worried about that. I believe that because of technological developments in medicine and methods of hospital treatment, surgery, etc., there will in the future be a further decline in hospital lay time for some patients. I think we're going to see that. It is important to build up the capacity in the municipalities, both competent and otherwise, so that you are actually able to deal with these patients. Then my question comes again: Will there be a parallel between, for example. a capital process and an interaction reform? Does the Council of State realize that this can be combined? That's the one. The second is, when we're in a situation with so many people ready to print, and there's a pressure on hospitals to cut bedtime, how does the Council of State estimate 1,000 new places next year for all these groups? It kind of doesn't rhyme at all. There is too much capacity already in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e560	I will try to answer specifically the questions that the representative Davøy now raised. The first – the capital process versus the interaction reform. As I said in my post, the board of Health South-East aims to take decisions relating to the capital process in November. So it's left to see if it's going to be the final decision, or if it's going to be a round in the ministry as well. But the capital process and what lies in it is aimed at treating this year. And it will have to be based on today's reality, today's rules and today's systems. Then I am absolutely sure that it will mean that not only the capital area and Health South-East, but the whole country in addition, will get a new round if we succeed in improving the system of interaction through an interaction reform. It lies further ahead in time, and there must the Storting enter. It means, if we succeed, legislative changes and new economic systems – that is to say, quite a lot of work at all. This may result in the need for a new structural review of both the specialist health service, the municipal health service and, in particular, their responsibilities. I imagine that it will be natural for us in the wake of an interaction reform to have a new, comprehensive national health plan, which takes into account the consequences of the interaction reform, but also looks at the dimensioning of the community health service versus the specialist health service. It must also be followed up with a national investment plan, for example. in the hospital area. So there's going to be a big plan to change the device on Health Norway. But we cannot tell Health South-East that this means that we must wait with the entire capital process. Then I see the point of the representative Davøy regarding 1000 places. What I think the representative Davøy has to take over is that we have a commitment in relation to how many places of care we are going to build until 2015 – I believe that it is, without prejudice to the year – and what matters to the Government, is that by 2015, the number of nursing homes that we have committed ourselves to in an agreement with the Christian People's Party is to be built. And then you can discuss whether more people would come sooner and less later – it's probably an interesting debate – but the point is that based on capacity assessments, the number to be completed in 2015, which I think it is, should be finished then.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e571	I am pleased that the Council of State made it clear that it would not be based on technical calculations from the Sintef side in terms of bedtime and beds, but more on the real situation and organisation we see in the capital area today. That's exactly what the interpellant points out, that, among other things, The proportion of elderly patients with complex disorders will go up rather than down in the coming years. At the same time, it is important what has been brought in here, that if we put in what is planned in the interaction reform, and with which the Committee has worked in the care message: stronger skills and more quality in the nursing homes, a good part of these elderly people with complex disorders, who are currently entering hospitals and taking up beds there, will be able to get better treatment in the nursing homes. It is clear that a better system, including: a more correct way of settling patients that are more ready to print than is the case today — it is largely worthwhile to leave them in hospital versus what it costs to run a hospitalized place per year. daily – will also lead to less pressure on the number of bed places in hospitals. The second thing that's going to change the picture, I hope, is about the proportion of immediate help patients, as it's called, but that often applies to help on the day and many other things that sort under it. In the Oslo area it's about 70 p.m., and there's something similar in the rest of the country. These are patients with lifestyle diseases, acute phase patients, and there are chronic groups. Based on the team's report, 30-40 pst. they do not need to come to the hospital and could have been better treated in other ways. We should have done more of the kind of things I witnessed at a conference in the ORLAND on local medical centers, where there were observation beds attached to the medical guard there, to the cooperation between the local doctors there. It turned out that 70 pst. by those who were admitted there, did not need to be forwarded to St. Olav's hospital. So there are many measures that can counteract the pressure on the number of bed places. This reform will have the same effect if we look at fixed-term financing and give firmers more room to work with their chronicler groups, provide them with tariffs and funding for, for example, the following: making better efforts towards diabetics, COPD patients, etc. We at Stortinget have worked a lot with better rehabilitation and better prevention, which will also ease the pressure on hospitals when they get better. I would also like to mention something else that may affect bedtime and the number of bed places. It concerns the design of the input-driven financing, or the DRG system. The rate system for some of the different disorders and treatments is structured to encourage the adaptation of the lag time to meet different rates in the DRG system. So it's also an important thing to look at what the Council of State has called the interaction reform, that is, how DRG rates and input-driven funding can contribute to better solutions and not to the kind of adjustments that can only be resource-depleting. I also want to say that dimensioning is about much more than technical calculations. It's also about the composition of the population. Obviously, there are areas in the country where there are many low incomes, short education, old age and many disabled people. It's not just Oslo. Other parts of the country also have areas with many social pressures, where we see that there are more addicts, more with mental disorders, more with diabetes and more with obesity. Unfortunately, we see diabetes among others. is growing in the new minority groups. There are more COLS in these exposed areas, more with asthma, etc. It is not possible to calculate this in a technical way; it is necessary to have an experience base and a social knowledge base in order to dimension the services in these areas. The reality of the patients in the Oslo area today is that this is probably the area in the country where there are most Corridor Asians, and where most people feel that there is a pressure in the hospitals. Then creating a one-sided image of that it's a great overcapacity, I don't think it's the way to attack it. You have to look at how, after the new methods, you can reduce the number of days lying in ways that are better for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e590	The interpellant addresses a very important issue in its interpellation today. I also think the Council's response shows that there is a common understanding of some of the steps that need to be taken. It is clear that some of the most important things are precisely that there is better interaction between the different levels. The problem is as follows: if we look at the capital process in isolation, we are in a situation where you might consider reducing the number of beds before you have the measures in place in the municipalities that are going to catch this up. The only thing you get is that you actually raise the threshold further in order to get a sick home place in this region. This is a huge problem. The same thing applies elsewhere. There are many health businesses that need to reduce, which need to save money. Very often, then, there will be a debate: – We have to bring down the number of beds, we have to reduce the number of days spent in our hospitals, because that's where you have the big costs. In fact, if you don't have the alternative housing available in the municipalities, yes, the problems will be further reinforced. Then the representative says Bøhler that the problems are greatest in the Oslo region. Yeah, they're probably there, but I think there's a lot of municipalities and a lot of hospitals that have to deal with the same issues. We've seen headlines from Stavanger, we've seen media headlines from Kristiansund, and we've seen it from Ålesund. We've seen it in many areas where there are ready-to-print patients who cannot be accepted. I think there are many of us who see for us the interaction reform. I am also very pleased that the Council of State is looking forward to getting input from this house on how it can be done better. What we have to do here, of course, is to make concrete proposals here in order to get it either discussed or followed the case. Otherwise, we must at least have a dialogue on how to achieve better solutions. Because it's a problem. Let's take the following example: the cheapest way for a nursing home to treat a patient who gets seriously ill, for example. Pulmonary inflammation or other things, is calling for an ambulance. It is remarkable that if we start treatment at the hospital, the hospital will have to take the full cost. If you call an ambulance, the ambulance must come running from the hospital, bring the patient back to the hospital, start the treatment there, and then later take him back to the hospital. Well, that's the cheapest way for the nursing home, but it's the desperate worst that can happen for the patient – and socio-economically. So I really look forward to finding better solutions, as we do now. Then there is clearly a problem related to the capital process in progress: there are a number of proposals that create uncertainty. New problems arise for the provision of treatment in this region. The problems and uncertainties associated with, among other things, Radium Hospital and Surgery: Are we getting a worse offer for cancer patients in the long term, or poorer competence around them? We also know that the fines for patients who are ready to print, which start to apply after 10 days, are about $1,600. When we compare it with the costs of a hospital and not least the hospital, it's obvious that there are some economic incentives that are lacking to get better services that allow the number of corridors to go down. I also think that we need to think more nationally, not regionally. I think we need to see things in health care in a bigger context than we do today. It must not be the case that all regions have an offer of everything. Some things we have to say must be pointed in such a way that it cannot be done in all university hospitals, for example. We need to get more flagships out. We have some flagships: we have it on rare diseases, we have it on transplant, we have it on cancer – and it needs to be cultivated further. I think the Council of State is on the right track with its plans. But I hope that we can also have the opportunity to make recordings, and that we will be able to have a better dialogue on different ways of doing this, because I think everyone deserves that the steps to be taken are, as far as possible, politically anchored in this room, so that this can be done in a broader area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e613	In the context of this interpellation, it is important to stress that the dimensioning of healthcare is somewhat more than the dimensioning of hospitals. And for every new revolution we've had both in the media and in the Stortingen on the hospital economy and the hospital crisis and all the strings that appear all the time, I'm becoming more and more convinced that the solution to these problems is not in the hospitals, it's outside the hospitals. The Council of State mentioned the number of 150000 laydays for patients who are not actually going to be treated as requiring hospitalisation. If my math skills hold, it means that every day there are over 400 patients in Norwegian hospitals who really shouldn't be there. Of course, the Council of State is right in saying that this is an economic problem, because it penalises the hospital economy in an inappropriate way. But what's even more important is that it makes patients get too bad a deal. A health care unit is the worst place you can stay in this world, to put it on the top, if you don't have to stay there because you have to undergo a treatment that makes it necessary to be in a hospital. That is why it is primarily a quality reform we are talking about. It's not primarily a savings reform, but there are questions about the quality of the offer we give patients. With the demographic development we can imagine, this is going to become clearer and clearer, because an increasing proportion of patients in the healthcare system are older people with complex disorders and often difficult to diagnose. So there's every reason to get started on the structure, and I have absolutely nothing against doing so under the keyword 'cooperation'. The problem with that type of keyword is just that they're impossible to disagree with, because no one can disagree with interaction. You could say, well, there can never be enough interaction. After all, the question is not interesting until you take the step further: How do you get it done? And what is it that in today's system makes that there's too little interaction, and that patients are constantly falling away between the beds, if it's possible to use such an expression? In addition to the 150 000 laydays, it is worth highlighting another problem that is at least the same size, namely the swing door space syndrome, that so many of these patients are transported in and out of hospitals at short intervals. It is in itself a health burden, because the routines of hospitalisation itself are a burden, especially for elderly, weak patients. Therefore, there is every possible reason to put back pressure. I'm not going to go into the interaction reform itself, because it's hard to discuss as long as we haven't seen it, that is. as long as we have not seen the concrete grips that the Council of State has announced that he will join us. Only then can it be discussed. But what it has to be possible to grasp are the things that create the unfortunate patient flow into and out of hospitals, and then I'll let myself say that the main factor here is how we use the medical resources. Because as long as the medical capacity is almost exclusively available in hospitals, we're not going to move on. If we are not able to arrange for hospital doctors to move outside the hospital walls and follow up patients outside the hospital, as long as we are not able to find the right means to get hospital doctors to apply to the hospital sector – it has, among other things. with pay ratios to do – yes, we will not get any grip on this. So I think the Council of State has to face up to the fact that the biggest challenge in this picture is called the Norwegian Medical Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e628	What's bothered me is that three of the current interpellations – the first from Nesvik on older people and nutrition, now from Laila Davøy on hospitals and hospital capacity, and then from Inge Wohnung on relieving treatment and care in the final phase of life – are tangential to the question of how to develop community health services in a better way, just in order to relieve hospitals. That question I'm going to try to get closer to here. The Council of State has been very clear that an interaction reform is needed, and I fully agree with him on that. I think it is very commendable that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen places so much emphasis on the use of resources when it comes to prioritizing the tasks to be undertaken in order to obtain results in terms of interaction. I registered in the debate that Inge Wohnning then asked questions as to whether this could be necessary, because there has been some investigation work in the past – the Wisløff committee was probably among others. mentioned. But when I then asked Inge Wohnung a concrete question, what kind of proposal he would like to make in that case with the background of what has been done in the past, he had no answer to it. I think that's a lot of the problem, that even though everyone wants to interact, it's very difficult, without getting it concrete, to know what the right steps are to ensure that people are treated where they're most served with it, and preferably at the care level that's the closest possible where you live, unless the condition requires that you have to be sent any longer. When you discuss hospitals, it beats me, when you look back, that there are few areas where both landfilling and other organs work more conservatively than just when it comes to this. Some time ago I went into a document called St.meld. No 9 for 1974–75, which is a very interesting document, because there is a whole hospital service in Norway, looks at it in a regional perspective and asks: What kind of changes are needed? It's a thorough document, which you have a lot to learn from even if we think about having adopted a national health plan, and what we should have filled it with today. However, that document mentions, inter alia: the situation in my own home country, Finnmark, and the operation of the hospitals in Vardø and Vadsø is described. So at that time, there were four hospitals in Finnmark, and I remember the discussion that closed down in Finnmark about ringing around the two hospitals, and how many years it took before they were closed. And I have to say, when you turn back and look at that discussion today, that it was absolutely right to put them down – there must be no doubt about that. To operate a hospital based on 3,000 inhabitants, or, for that matter, 6,000, as was the case in Vadsø, is not sound on the basis of the quality to be guaranteed, and such examples could have been mentioned from many places in the country. If we look at the hospital structure today, it is essentially characterized by a completely different housing pattern than what we have. Many of the municipalities where hospitals are located today have experienced that the population has fallen, while there are places where there may be double and triple living without any hospital at all. However, very often this is discussed from a kind of employment perspective, from a district perspective, not on the basis of an overall objective of the proper use of resources. And if we look at the use of NOK 102 billion, which we are now up against the specialist health service, look at the growth that has occurred in the specialist sector, where there has been an increase since the introduction of the health enterprise reform of over 12 p.m. in the case of doctors, and so, in parallel, see that in the case of primary health care, it has only been around 2 pst. increasing, it is understood that there is a self-employment within this system that will constantly push us to new appropriations, even when those resources could have been used far more appropriately in the municipalities and ensured a better service for the population there. But if we're going to get there, if we're going to get that way of exploiting resources, we also have to be willing to look at structural changes. Then we have to be willing to say honestly: there is actually no basis here for a maternity ward, there may not even be any longer grounds for a hospital. It is not possible to preserve it by saying that nothing should be done, as if it were given – and God-given – for all time that everything should be like before. That's the worst approach this house can have if we want dynamics in terms of both the development of new specialist health services and a better overall offer to the entire population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e641	This interpellation is also important, as many people have been in the big hospital debate, and goes straight into the current day, especially naturally in Health South-East. Now there is one ongoing process in the largest health care agency in the country, but what is happening here has consequences and significance for the rest of Health Norway. So I'll be pretty general in my article. The financial crisis in which we are in the midst of it may not be able to lead us, but the evolution of the population and the changes in the composition of the population must be seen as an exact science. We know that the number of the elderly will increase, and we implicitly know that the number of the sick will increase. This in turn means giving the same treatment regime in hospitals that today will increase the rate of infirmity. Today, we record that many hospitals operate with Corridor Asians. Located in a corridor that was fresh in a hotel, most would say it was unworthy. The fact that one should suffer from such a fate when one is seriously ill is certainly worse. I have been a hospital director at a local hospital for more than ten years, and I know that Corridor Asians can be difficult to avoid altogether. But at least we have to be careful that health care professionals plan that some patients have to expect to lie down at the same time, just hiding behind a screenboard. Of course, those in need of medical treatment in a hospital must have a bed and a room that provides both dignity and the small amount of privacy that a hospital shelter provides. The debate on health care is linked to the interaction with the first-line services, i.e. the municipalities. We know that the Council of State is busy with interaction between service levels, that he has almost expressed that this is the key to success for Health-Noreg, and he has repeated this today. As Inge Wohnning was about, interaction is a metamorphosis that in and of itself is positive, and there is no one who can disagree in it. Neither do we in the Left disagree, rather on the contrary, we are very few in that better interaction is good, and that it is a great potential, both for patients and for society in general. I still think we need a little cold water in the blood, almost said. We don't think it's just pinching your fingers and believing that the problems are solved. History so far has shown that interaction is not easy in practice, so there are major challenges. In any case, I think it is important that when you look at changes in bed rates in our hospitals, thorough analysis must be carried out in advance. If the first line service is to take on more responsibility for patients who are currently in hospital – which is correct – it will have to do so. carry out a relatively extensive resource redistribution. One doesn't have to be special to a fortune-teller - one doesn't have to call fortune-tellers either - to say that such money-moving isn't just curative. The Health and Welfare Committee has recently been on an interesting trip in Tanzania and Mozambique. There we saw, among other things. a food stock that was quite intensively exploited. I didn't have a meter, but I think I could say that the room we saw was about. 100 m2. There, as far as I'm concerned, there were 16 beds of pregnant women. That means -- and now we have to do math again -- that it's going to be about. 6 m2 per patients. Even though we learned a lot on the trip, I don't think this birth control model is transferable to Norway. To Inge Wohnning, who suggested that the patient fell between two beds: there was so little space that it was almost impossible to do this between two beds. So it's a possibility, but I don't think it's transferable. My conclusion is that we do not have to let the health care unit build up bed capacity that we know we need a lot of in the future – at least this degradation does not have to happen regardless of the supply we are going to have in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e663	Let me first say something about where I disagree with the interpellant. It says in the interpellation: «Both too few and too many beds are unlucky.» I have great problems seeing why too many beds are unlucky. Trying to estimate the need for services is not something special for healthcare or care for the elderly — both of them in the public domain. This is a very common problem for most industries, perhaps the most comparable hotels. How many hotel beds are there really needed? Is it possible to operate safely and efficiently in a certain territory? Is there room for more grocery stores in the market? Is there room for more car workshops? - Car repair shops look like a lot in hospitals. You have to fix what's wrong. In all other industries, it is actually quite normal that there are too many — even some too many beds — and there is intense competition between the different providers of services to attract users, or customers, if you like. I can't understand why we shouldn't be able to transfer what seems very good in other areas, to the health sector and say that it would be nice if there were too many beds. If there was one hospital that had too many beds all the time, it would be quite natural that then you reduced there, and there would be no protests from any team, because the need was not there. So I disagree that you couldn't even have too many beds here, so that lack of beds was actually never a problem that prevented you from taking patients. That there are other issues, I accept – that you have to manage some planned operations based on what you have of doctors, nurses and special staff – but that lack of a bed, which is the smallest cost, when it is otherwise the personnel costs that are the big ones, I cannot understand. Then I would like to ask the Council once again to confirm that the funding system will be very central to an interaction reform. I would like to ask if he could explain to me, a simple, relinquished politician, how it is theoretically possible at all, if there are two or three people employed in public, who represent each of their budgets, and who represent each of their respective levels, to get the three to do what is most reasonable in a whole. It is embedded in such a system that it is only at the moment it is the same budget line and the same level that covers the cost, whether in hospitals, in hospitals or in rehabilitation, that it will automatically do what is best for the patient and best for public funding. But as long as this is broken down into different budget lines, and you sit there and interact, the struggle will in any case be how to get this expenditure into one of the other budgets and not your own – especially if you have a government council that keeps saying that the most important thing here in the world is keeping the budgets, not treating sick people. The most important thing is to keep the budgets. It's an impossibility that the Council of States is really trying to achieve, interaction. There is at the moment one government budget, call it the welfare account, covers the costs for Mr. Hansen is either in a hospital or in rehabilitation after an operation, or he is in a hospital or receives other forms of training. No matter where he is, it's the same checkout and the same case handler who has to figure out the expenses. The last 20–25 years should show that it is more than proven, and I therefore hope that the Council of State will find out the Wisløff Committee's position. There's a lot of good material. It's not necessary to start over. My starting point is that this is never going to be solved until there is one state agency that has the full governance, and there is one budget chapter that covers the costs no matter what kind of offer is. Then you actually get what the Council of State is talking about as an interaction. But I would appreciate it if he confirmed that the funding system is a very central part of the discussion that is now in the ministry, and that the department has conducted three, four, five, six times in my lifetime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e683	I'm not going to go into a polemics with Carl I. Hagen on a sentence that too many beds are also unfortunate. My point is that we need to have the best possible planning. My focus has been that we must at least have enough capacity in hospitals, and if we are to reduce the capacity of hospitals, we must provide enough capacity in the municipal health service, which must then accept. We all want to avoid corridors. By the way, I would like to thank everyone who has been involved in the debate. I think it's been a nice debate. I fully agree with Jan Bøhler when he says that the calculations of needs are not just technical. That's why I'm trying to figure out that they're actually the most political. It is clear that it is a political responsibility to say how we want healthcare to be for all those groups that, among other things. The representative Bøhler listed here. I also agree that different social compositions in the population are very important for dimensioning, perhaps in different parts of our country. Then to the number material. My point is that I am simply concerned about what is happening in Health South-East now, if it turns out that they will further reduce their capacity before they have built up. This I've said before; I'm not going to repeat it more times than right now. The Council of State mentions that we have set up a number of sites to be built until 2015, and that's 12,000. If you distribute it, it becomes so and so many every year. But the 2,000 next year is too small. But there is not really a ceiling of 12 000, because the agreement we have concluded says that every year in the context of the State budget we should look at the need for conversion and staffing as needed, and it should be assessed every year. Therefore, there is no exact thank you. It seemed as if the Council of State could mean it. When this psychiatry plan is completed in the course of the year, there will be 2,700 psychiatric patients with a need for planned sites. The government itself has defined that there are 24 000 denture locations to be arranged. It does not necessarily mean new sites, but it needs to be rebuilt and organised for 24 000 – right up to 2020. Then we have many more older ones, they're sicker, and then this comes in addition to the conversion, among other things. in health south-east, and perhaps elsewhere. Then I'm worried. At the end of the day: The salary was that hospital dimensioning is more than hospital care, and the solution lies in the municipalities. Yes, it does. But then I hope that you can better coordinate these races, even if I hear that the Council of State says it's difficult. But it has to be coordinated, otherwise we're going to deal with patients who don't have room, maybe neither in hospitals, nor in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e698	I have the impression that every time there has been an interpellation debate in Stortinget, we say that there has been a very interesting debate. All the debates are, frankly and frankly, not as interesting, but at least I think this has been a very interesting debate. I think we've got a broad spectrum of the debate that makes it inspiring for me in the further work. I just want to formally stress that it is important for me to say that the process that is now taking place in Health South-East is based on today's reality, in today's situation. Then, of course, you have to take into account what is defined as the capacity and the space for action of the municipalities in the area, given the current situation. But then we have also discussed the future. How are we going to make things work better in the future? The representative Carl I. Hagen pointed out that he, who – I think he said – ‘delivered politician’ had some views on it. Well, me and the representative Hagen are probably about the same fired. We have both said no to re-election to Stortinget, but I think both want to have the opportunity to be the Council of State after the election next harvest. He asks me, will the funding system be central to the work we are now doing in the ministry? The answer to that is unconditionally yes. It's the most central one. It is the funding system and the law – the most powerful policy instruments – that need to be implemented. I believe that yes, there has been a lot of talk about interaction. Yeah, we've had public investigations on interaction. The Wisløff Committee's setting is absolutely worth reading, but it is also seen from the Wisløff Committee's setting that initially it says that we have not addressed the economic systems as a tool for interaction. I believe that is the great weakness. This is not going to be effective without using the policy's most powerful instrument, and it's economics and jus. So that's exactly the two points that we now have as the starting point for what we're doing in the ministry. Then there are many things that need to be supplemented, for example. ICT, which is a very important part of it all to make it work. But you have to get rid of the law and the economy. Then I am aware that Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party have often had – one might say – this with vertically integrated thinking as their starting point. There's a lot of excitement in it, and we're looking at it. Among other things, I have to: travel to the United States and visit Kaiser Permanente, a large insurance company which is vertically integrated, which has the patient, the user, the resident, from a to a in its company. We're going to go thoroughly into the kind of models, be prejudiced, but it's impossible for me to say where we're going to land, before we've been through the work we're going through. But we're going very far out, and the funding system is at the heart of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e709	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e725	Not long ago I had a meeting with HivNorway. They expressed strong concern about the development of our country in terms of knowledge of HIV. Special concern was related to what appeared in a new report from Fafo. For me, it is very important to find out how we can strengthen the prevention of HIV infection, how it is to live with HIV today, and what measures the Council of State can and will take in the light of the knowledge available to us. It is estimated that today it is approx. 2 800 people living with HIV in Norway. 50 pst. of which they are assumed to be heterophilic, with the majority of immigrants infected before arrival in Norway. The group of men who have sex with men stands for 40 pst. of the HIV numbers. 10 pst. is infected mainly as a result of injecting drug use. There have been major changes in living with HIV compared to the past. First of all, it is linked to the development of good medicine. These make you live a long life. Both HIV positives, assistive devices and the population now need to deal with something new. HIV has become a chronic condition involving long-term treatment and follow-up. HIV is therefore not just about surviving, but also about quality of life. HIV is still a taboo since the person infected by an action has helped to become infected. Many people experience that the disease involves stigmatisation. It will affect whether you dare to be open about the disease or not. Once we have knowledge of people's knowledge and attitudes about HIV, we can more easily develop a policy that can help reduce stigmatisation and discrimination against HIV positives. In this way, the report from Fafo is very important. People know that if you have unprotected sex with a person who is HIV positive, you're at risk. There's a greater lack of knowledge about how HIV doesn't infect. HIV does not infect a HIV-positive person by normal social activity. It is not possible to be infected with HIV through normal body contact, good clamps and closeness. The study shows differences between men and women and between age groups. People with higher education have both more knowledge of HIV and more positive attitudes to HIV-positive rights and opportunities in society. In the younger age group, aged 15–24, poorer knowledge and more restrictive attitudes to HIV-positive rights and participation in society emerge. When it becomes clear that these have gained knowledge of HIV through school, there is reason to ask whether teaching this is good enough. Unfortunately, it turns out that there is skepticism and intolerance among people to HIV positive. This applies in particular to rights and participation in the labour market. Among the questions asked to monitor this was whether HIV positives are obliged to tell the employer that they are HIV infected, and whether HIV positives have to accept that the employer is changing the tasks for the safety of other employees. People are willing to accept relatively large restrictions on the ability of HIV positives to make their own choices. It's very serious. This is what Fafo will do. According to what I know, there will be a final report in spring 2009. It also appears that close relationships, such as having a HIV positive mindset for your own child, are characterized by more restrictive attitudes. Over 30 pst. wouldn't accept this. Action needs to be taken to ensure better HIV-positive quality of life. Most HIV positives experience isolation and stigmatisation. This makes it difficult for them to be open about their diagnosis, both privately and at work. HIV-positives are often grouped in risk groups. This may be problematic when we know that group membership itself does not, of course, involve the risk of infection, but the actions you take. Groups that are overrepresented among HIV-positive are immigrants, homosexuals and drug addicts. This also has implications for the targeting of the various actions. Furthermore, it's different how the quality of life of HIV positives is, depending on which group they belong to. Monitoring the quality of life of HIV positives therefore also needs to address these inequalities that exist between groups, and perhaps within the different groups. Persons infected with HIV before arrival in Norway constitute the largest group of HIV positives registered. A central problem in this group is deafness about infection in immigrant settings. Culture, religion and language provide additional challenges in HIV prevention and HIV positive responses in these settings. The group that is most vulnerable to HIV infection today is men who have sex with men. Young men who have sex with men protect themselves less against HIV compared to older men who have sex with men, and they lack basic knowledge of HIV. In a NOVA study on gay and lesbian living conditions, it appears that only one fifth of gay men are in the group who are potentially at risk of HIV infection. Fafo’s report also states that heterophilic men and women who are HIV positive need more attention, including: because they do not recognise any of the groups associated with HIV infection. More attention is also needed in the care of children and family life. HIV-infected drug users are also a group that needs action. Among other things, if HIV comes into an environment where syringes are shared, there is always a potential for severe flares of infection. Regular medication and therefore contact with healthcare is a challenge. Since new drugs make HIV positive sick — and fewer are dying — the number of HIV positives increases, and more people experience getting old. Over 700 HIV positives in Norway are over 50 years old. Many experience solitude. We lack knowledge of how other diseases among the elderly affect HIV positives. Among the main challenges of this group is a lack of knowledge among health professionals. The 2009 budget proposal refers to the Fafo report. In my view, in the light of the fact that Fafo has now joined, it is necessary to include this in the evaluation of the strategy plan for the prevention of HIV and sexually transmitted diseases. According to the budget proposal, this should be evaluated in 2008. I look forward very much to hearing the thoughts and plans of the Council of State about this, because this work is urgent. In summary, I want to ask for some of the measures that I can imagine should come quickly: targeted actions to increase knowledge of HIV and, in particular, a critical review of educational material for use in schools to improve the quality of life of HIV positives, thereby avoiding isolation and stigmatisation measures to improve the HIV positive situation at work measures targeting HIV positive immigrants and addressing cultural, religious and language challenges addressed to men having sex with men at risk. Measures targeting HIV-positive heterophilic men and women, in particular related to care for children and family life, providing better facilities for drug addicts who are HIV-positive more knowledge among health professionals on ageing among HIV-positive I look forward to hearing what the Council of State intends to do, and also the time perspective ahead of this important work. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Health also agrees that this is an important work to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e794	It is good that Stortinget has the opportunity to discuss how best to prevent HIV and AIDS here in Norway. Many HIV positives experience a failure to interact with the healthcare they require, and many experience that psychosocial follow-up is totally absent. This, together with the shame and lack of transparency about living with HIV, makes this patient group easily fall outside the current health system. Let me start with a few words initially about the HIV situation in a global perspective. The UN Programme on HIV and AIDS, UNAIDS, estimates that some 33 million people in the world live with HIV today. There's still most of it on the African continent south of the Sahara. In 2007, the proportion was 67 pst. 72 pst. of all deaths caused by AIDS occurred there. Also in countries such as Russia, Estonia and Ukraine, the number of newly infected is increasing. That gives us reason to be concerned. We are now entering the third decade of the epidemic. Still, one third of the countries in the world do not have protective laws against discrimination against people living with HIV. Exclusion, persecution and discrimination pose a significant risk of further spread of the epidemic. In addition, of course, the human suffering comes for those who live with HIV. So to the situation in Norway. In 2007, 248 new HIV infections were diagnosed in Norway — two out of three are males. About 100 people were suspected of being infected before coming to Norway. It is mainly from countries that are high on HIV statistics. About 80 people are men infected after sex with men. We assume that over 40 are heterosexually infected in Norway. 13 has been infected through unclean syringes. At the end of 2007, there were 3787 HIV positives in Norway. In Norway, HIV positives are entitled to free medical treatment. Ten years ago, new effective drugs came. It has revolutionized the lives of those who live with HIV and AIDS, and they have prospects of living a long life today. But we're not going to detract from living with HIV and AIDS in any way. The disease image of many is very complex with constant relapses. Many have major side effects, and it's still a stigma to live with HIV. It seems that more, in fact, were open about their HIV status 15-20 years ago than today. It must be a cross of thought. Many also believe that HIV is quite silent in the public domain. You don't talk about it anymore. It hits so few, and people don't care. The report, which is also based on the interpellant, on which Fafo came in the summer – «Continued dangerous to kiss? Knowledge and attitudes to HIV’ — important in getting more attention to HIV prevention work. To strengthen this work, it is absolutely vital that we get knowledge of where we should put pressure. The report shows that people know a lot about HIV and AIDS. In terms of disease progression and HIV infection, there are 87 pst, respectively. and 98 pst. which answers correctly. An overwhelming majority, 98 pst., believes that everyone has a responsibility not to be infected by HIV. This is uplifting numbers. But unfortunately, people have less knowledge of how HIV does not infect: one in four answers that you can get infected by kissing someone who is HIV positive on your mouth, while 13 pst. you think you can get infected by drinking the same glass. The fact that many people do not know enough about how HIV does not infect, characterise attitudes to HIV positives and their opportunities to participate in social and work life. The most eye-catching is perhaps people's attitudes to HIV positives in working life: 60 pst. agree in whole or in part that HIV positives must be obliged to tell the employer that they are HIV positive – without specifying the purpose of such information obligation. Half of those asked believe that HIV positives must accept that employers change tasks for the sake of safety of their colleagues. So people are willing, as the interpellant also said, to accept relatively large restrictions on the ability of HIV positives to make their own choices. It is in these days 20 years since the Supreme Court passed judgment in the so-called Henki case. The Supreme Court then stated that HIV status is not a cause for dismissal and that a HIV positive enjoys the same rights in working life as everyone else. The experience of HIV positives in working life will be a main theme of the living conditions survey of the Fafo this autumn. However, the results of the knowledge and attitudes study unfortunately suggest that many HIV positives still experience major obstacles as active workers. The less uplifting figures in the report bring us to the heart of this debate, namely that we must combat negative attitudes and discrimination against HIV positives in order to combat the spread of HIV in society. This is true in Norway as in the rest of the world. We follow up on HIV prevention through the ‘Responsibility and care’ strategy plan. The main point is that knowledge, guidance and education on HIV and sexually transmitted infections are easily accessible to all, and that information takes into account gender, age, sexual orientation and culture. Large campaigns have not been effective. That's why we need to see how we can better target the HIV message, so that people get a more accurate picture of how HIV is infected, and how to live a good life with HIV. Unfortunately — including in Norway — young people are increasingly infected with HIV. Several young people with refugee and immigrant backgrounds live with HIV. It is vital that young people have access to education and information on how to protect themselves against infection. It is also important that they are involved in the process of making such information. Education Directorate and Health Directorate are now preparing a new material for sexual education at school. In addition, the catalogue of educational and information material for children, young people and young adults is updated. Voluntary organisations have an important role to play in achieving the main target groups: HIVNorway offers information and guidance on HIV and AIDS, on rights and offers for HIV-positive and relatives. The Health Committee — together for better homohesy — has a course for young boys and older men, a course on safer sex, and they carry out extensive information activities for men having sex with men. Acceptance and Primary Medical Workshop in Oslo and Social Medical Workshop in Tromsø are some examples of volunteers carrying out preventive work among immigrants. There is a health centre for students at 18 places of study in Norway, where the Health Directorate has been important in the establishment. Several lowthreshold services are also in place for groups who are not so easily seeking health care. This applies, inter alia, to: men who have sex with men, and people who sell sex. So a few words about knowledge and competence among health professionals. Experience so far shows that many HIV positives experience a major lack of interaction between services and that psychosocial follow-up is totally absent. The first conference on better overall follow-up to HIV positives was held last year. The next conference is in the New Year, with a particular focus on interaction and empowerment in services. Finally, there is considerable work to evaluate and summarise new knowledge on HIV and AIDS. This is important in reviewing strategies and measures to prevent HIV and sexually transmitted diseases. Voluntary organisations in HIV and AIDS in Norway and the rest of the world and authorities in the health, social, anti-discrimination and labour sectors will be challenged to contribute to the development of new and effective strategies in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e847	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good response, and I am happy for the work that is going on in the ministry in various ways. It is clear that the global situation of HIV infection is quite different from that of Norway. This means that we have a much better starting point to actually be able to initiate some measures that work. Like the Council of State, I'm very concerned that it turns out that the transparency of having HIV was greater 15 years ago than what we can see today. It will also have a negative impact on the competences and attitudes of society. I think we have to work with HIV in a long-term, continuous way to get knowledge and guidance out to all groups of the population. I can't imagine we can ever end up with this. When I was a State Council member of the Bondevik II government, LLH had a big project that was just about discrimination in the workplace. This has been the place where it has been demonstrated for a long time that discrimination has been greatest. So the question is whether you don't have to do anything completely specific about working life in terms of HIV positive. It has also been said that lesbians and gays of all groups are the most discriminated against in the workplace. There may well be measures from the good project that you can look at that could be important here too, without me thinking about exactly the good measures here and now. Then there's another important thing: I think it's great that new material is being developed for the school. Perhaps the groups that can do the fastest for the HIV positive are just the voluntary organisations. To give them opportunities and framework conditions to reach the HIV positives I think is very important. I also think they will reach the target audience more easily. It will be a much lower threshold to go to the voluntary organisations than it might be to go to both health professionals, who we hear don't have much competence in this, or for the part to us politicians to get better help – we may be the ones who get last contact. Health centres among children and young people are also a very important area for information. Finally, I just want to hear with the Council of State: when the strategy plan that Dagfinn Højbrätten, after what I remember, came with the first time, is under evaluation, can the Council of State say something about the time aspect here? I think it's very urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e862	I would like to say that I agree very much with Mr. Davøy that there are many concerns. The discrimination which it is obvious that HIV positives experience in the workplace is very serious and very worrying. Now we get a new Fafo report during the fall, which goes into it more thoroughly. It provides us with a knowledge base that hopefully enables us to focus on measures related to combating discrimination in the workplace when we are preparing the new strategy plan. We aim to present a revised national strategy plan during 2009. So we get this Fafo report, which deepens discrimination in the labour market, in the autumn. We're getting a main report from Fafo in 2008. Then it evaluates, and then we aim to present a new strategy plan during 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e867	It's great that we have a debate about HIV and AIDS in Stortinget today. It is good that there will be a political debate in the cold water of the Fafo report, although the study has been there since June and it strictly did not get the attention it deserved at the time. But it is good that the interpellant raises questions about this in Stortinget today, because we have too little of that. In my opinion, we needed a greater and more active political debate on HIV and AIDS, on the increase in the number of people infected and also on the daily lives of HIV positives. We would have needed such a debate all year round. Here at home comes the little debate about HIV and AIDS every year when the numbers are presented, and then it disappears just as quickly. We need that debate all year round, because people call for help even when the report and the statistics don't reach the VG's cover pages. Norway is strong and active in the international arena in combating HIV and AIDS, both in terms of dissemination and also in terms of working against discrimination and stigmatisation of positive. That job is needed. The UNAIDS figures tell us that the global fight against HIV and AIDS has been as effective as you thought. On the contrary, things are going in the wrong direction in many places in the world. The Council of State and the inter-pellant have already reached the figures that make this an important area of activity in our foreign and development policy, both when it comes to granting money and in relation to Norway being the one who is going to be dry where the other tens. We have to deal with the unpleasant links between the spread of HIV and AIDS and, for example, the spread of AIDS. Homophilis, women's rights, equality, reproductive health and all of this. But we must not forget that HIV and AIDS are not just a poverty problem and a development problem. It goes in the same direction here at home. The number of people infected is increasing, but less attention is paid. We need a new national leverage against HIV and AIDS here at home, a force of the same size as what we're taking out. We should be ashamed of the attitudes Fafo sets out. The fact that the Norwegian people actually know so little about how HIV infection or not infection, but also the fact that people are so prejudiced against HIV positive, says a little bit about that we need that force now, and that we have to be as uncompromising here at home as what we are out there. Had it been heterogeneous, white men with the dress offering and power that had detected the HIV virus in the early 1980s, I think the world would have definitely done more to combat the infection in the 27 years that have passed. What worries me, after seeing the Fafo study and also talking to people, is that it's still that many people believe that HIV doesn't infect white men with the dress offering and power and dress, but that it's a homosexual disease. It's alarming, and it's wrong. This applies to all of them. Although those infected by HIV are discriminated against when they become infected, it is not that the HIV virus discriminates, it infects everyone. Dissemination of knowledge and attitudes takes a long time. We can't give money in one budget to measure the effect already the year after. The new figures, and not least the Fafo survey, show us that there has been a mistake in the 1990s, that the fight against the spread of HIV and for better knowledge has already been under-resourced. That's why we need to learn from it and take a force now to hopefully see results in the long term. We have no time to lose. Although it is difficult for us politicians to say exactly what works, and what does not work, at least we cannot do less preventive work because we are uncertain about the effect. Although it's hard to say what works and doesn't work in terms of reducing infection, there's other things we know more about that we should definitely just do. These are measures related to attitudes, discrimination and stigmatisation. The fact that HIV positives have to live in hiding in fear of social sanctions and discrimination in the workplace, in the family, in the circle of associates, in the doctors and in the health services, everywhere in society where HIV positives are met with unnecessary scepticism and fear, or become outcast or lose the job, tells us a little about something we have to do. This actually happens in 2008. In addition, the United Nations says that Norway has to sweep for its own door in terms of high tabling internationally in relation to stigmatisation, because we have laws here at home that the United Nations considers to be discriminatory. It's about the HIV paragraph, which is § 155 of the Penal Code, which is over-mature for change. It's because it doesn't work. On the contrary, it works against its purpose. I am very pleased that the Justice Committee is now looking at this in the context of the revision of the penal code. I wish that the room was full of representatives today and that more people would participate in this debate. Unfortunately, it's not like that. But I hope that all of us who are then here, whether it's position or opposition, can agree that the HIV work needs to be strengthened, that we have to take a force, because this is too important to only deal with party political polemics. I would like the Hiv case to become a torch case again, and that we made a HIV settlement in the Stortinget where we committed ourselves to action and ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e886	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for the matter she is raising here, although I could very well wish that we not only discussed HIV/AIDS issues from a national sphere of interest, but also addressed the international challenges we are facing. In Norway, from 2006, which was also a record year, until 2007, we experienced a moderate decrease in the number of new HIV infections in Norway. This is due to a decline in the number of men having sex with men, and the arrival of fewer infected immigrants. The decline is greatest in Oslo. Most of those found to be heterosexually infected are immigrants infected in their original country of origin before arrival in Norway. Of a total of 141 cases, 99 persons, 61 women and 38 men of foreign origin were infected before coming to Norway. 42 persons, 31 men and 11 women were diagnosed as heterosexually infected while living in Norway. 13 new HIV-positive, injecting drug users were detected in 2007 and nine new children, all born abroad. Overall in Norway, there were 2,566 infected men and 1,221 infected women by the end of 2007. The fact that we in Norway can be much more effective at including HIV infection at all levels and through an inclusive working life is obvious. We can do much more through information and general public information, information and information that will help us all, both those who are not infected and those who are. We have to realize that there is a wall that needs to be removed, so that inclusion and integration are better than they are today. Men having sex with men are, in isolation, a major HIV/AIDS problem in Norway. But it must also be mentioned that when as many as 99 out of 141 were of foreign origin, and were infected before they arrived in Norway, it is not only in our country that we have an information work, etc. to do. HIV/AIDS is an international, major health problem, where, as a nation, we need to adopt a much more active attitude to the problem. We know that in many tribal communities in developing countries it is taboo today to use contraception. At the same time, the number of people infected in some places is over 25 pst. by the population, it should be clear that Norwegian assistance should be both targeted and earmarked for this type of communicable disease. In too many countries, Norwegian health aid has been directly involved in national government budgets for more than 20 years, without priorities for combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. In our immediate sphere, Russia and the Baltic States are a huge problem. Globally, South Africa and India are the countries where most people are infected with HIV/AIDS. It does not prove that former President Mbeki in South Africa has a denouncing attitude to the disease, as well as that Minister of Health, Msimang, says that lemons, garlic and foliage constitute alternative treatments, or that future President Jacob Zuma claims HIV/AIDS is a simple disease that is abandoned by a shower. When the pope goes out at the same time and calls for a ban on the use of contraception, there can certainly be a position that may be relevant to some countries in Europe, but to developing countries, which have an infected population of 25 pst. or more, such statements are a tragedy to the population and will only lead to many, many more being infected. Unfortunately, by far the majority of those infected in developing countries are young women. Culture is so tribal and man-dominated that it becomes the most vulnerable young women, through sexual exploitation, man's right to be incorporated into tribal rituals, etc. This is not found in UN documents, but it is still a truth that contributes very negatively to the control of the disease. The fact that in recent years Norway has become much more positive in contributing through different types of global funds, with funds earmarked for combating HIV/AIDS, is very positive. If we are to be able to achieve effective control, funds must be earmarked so that efforts are targeted, and not through general transfers in government budgets to developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e907	In the case of examples of administrations that might think a little bit about what they're signaling, to the extent that the U.S. administration, which thinks abstinence is one strategy, is one. To that it's probably really to say that sex is a trend that's come to be, and that's what every politician has to take on. In the 1980s, an American diver hit his head in the platform during a championship. From an audience that was concerned on his behalf, all of a sudden trainers and other divers became very concerned on their own behalf. The reason was that there were some milliliters of blood in a large pool of thousands of cubic meters of water. They were afraid of infection. Since then you should think, when we see that report, that you'd come a little bit further, but that's not the case. It's health professionals who are afraid to change the sheet. It's health professionals and other people who are afraid to hold hands. There are workers who are afraid to work with someone, and believe that you have an obligation to provide information about your status, regardless of the type of profession you are engaged in together, and what kind of real risk it is. There are psychologists who have people having conversations over the years, but who never manage to get them to open up about their HIV status, which may be the reason they have a mental problem. In addition, there is an attitude not only in relation to knowledge, but there is an attitude problem among quite a lot of doctors, because if someone asks to be tested for all types of gender diseases, you get the question: Why? What have you done? Then everyone understands that for some it may not be so easy to go and test themselves in health stations and other places, as they should, because they do not want to be exposed to that kind of upper and lower postures from health professionals. In addition, the emerging HIV positives are likely to be exposed to exclusion for many different reasons. The basic idea is that they must have done something wrong, they must have lived extremely well, so they probably have been infected, and they really deserve it. That's the attitude that's still at the root of the society we live in, and that's the attitude we have to fight against, by means of public efforts, but not least by private efforts. If HIV is to be prevented, it must be based on the fact that HIV-positive people are also whole people. Stamping and expelling do not contribute to prevention. It only contributes to more self-esteem and perhaps also to contempt for other people, which means that someone practices more insecure sex than good is. But we don't prevent HIV either by making HIV positive poor, by not looking at them as independent people who have to take responsibility for their own lives and their own actions. In terms of strategy, a genuine and committed strategy must also exist at national level, not just abroad. It must be based on values that HIV positives are whole people and that they are treated like the people they are on good and bad. It's a big challenge to balance strategy in terms of scaring people. That may be necessary, but at the same time you have to have a realism that shows that it's also completely possible to live with a HIV diagnosis and actually feel pretty good. It's a pretty big challenge to balance this. Many young people today who are infected with chlamydia learn that you can take a pill, and then it's gone. It's not about HIV. It is the basic position that makes it possible to become a major challenge in the future if you don't get a commitment strategy, that all the young people infected by chlamydia today have a better chance of getting HIV infection by getting into their environments. So a little bit about the special group that is pronounced HIV positive, namely men who have sex with men. It's a fact, but it's also important to remember that the men who have sex with men like to have sex with their wives when they get home. It's not like someone's just practicing one thing or another. Some people actually keep it hidden. Then we get to the core of a part of the immigration problem, that very many people with immigrant backgrounds who are also second-generation immigrants have not been infected abroad, but they practice insecure sex with men. They don't take on condoms when they come home to the wife afterwards, just because it'll seem a little weird. Then we have a challenge when we're going to find a strategy to achieve these. For example, the gay health selection reaches not these, simply because it's called the Health Committee for gays, and these men don't define themselves like that. They define themselves as heterophilic and are married. They have a culture and a sense of what it is to be homophilic and heterophilic, but they're running on in a loop, getting infected in a loop and transferring it to their wife afterwards. It's a big challenge for people with a different cultural background. But I really don't think it has anything to say about the cultural background, because the attitudes and prejudices are exactly the same, that people having sex with each other are – as I said – a trend that has come to be. So it's about preventing and not stamping people who have had a disease, while at the same time informing those who are in the process of developing a sexual career that creates an increased risk. In fact, there I think people with Muslim background and people with so-called Norwegian background have the same challenges, and we have to have the same strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e928	I would first like to congratulate the interpellant on the topic, because one can get the impression that HIV infection has gradually become less prominent in Norway than it was initially and for a period of time. I remember that when I was studying medicine, in 1981 there was an article in Der Spiegel, which supposedly must have been the first worldwide to mention the phenomenon, and that it was very likely that there was a virus that infected. In the cold water of it, and as more was mentioned, there were also forecasts of infection that were quite gloomy, where it was assumed for the European countries that very, very many would be infected. What we see in Norway is that, fortunately, this has not happened. The numbers that exist per person. the date, shows that in 2007 13 HIV positive injecting drug users were detected and nine children were reported infected in connection with birth and all were born abroad. Overall, 3 787 HIV infections were diagnosed in Norway, 2 566 men and 1,221 women by the end of 2007. At the same time, about 23 000 cases of genital chlamydia infection were diagnosed in 2007. What seems to hang again is a kind of understanding that if you're infected with HIV, you've got a deadly disease that just makes it a matter of time before you lose your life. But in reality, the treatments that exist seem so life-prolonging that a good part has gradually died for reasons other than HIV infection. Treatment has also resulted in many people not being infected by sexual contact with a HIV infection, simply because they are considered not to be infectious in practice, so they do not transfer the infection if the treatment is correct and optimised. I noticed that the representative Trettebergstuen mentioned the penal code § 155. I was also going to get into it. We know that the penal code is being reviewed, and that that issue will also be addressed through the work of the Justice Committee. I have registered that HivNorge has been engaged in what they experience as a very great discrimination in terms of possible convictions relating to infection. When you try to get into that problem, I think HivNorway has a good point. It may be difficult to obtain an overall figure of the application of Section 155, which is thus linked to the infectious disease law and possible transmission through the carelessness of general dangerous infectious diseases. But as far as I've gained experience, the only people who have been accused and convicted of conditions related to § 155 about common infectious diseases, HIV positives that have infected heterophiles, whether they have been men who have infected women, or there have been women who have infected men. And if you think that the danger of contagion in a gay relationship is relatively larger, it's striking that it hasn't fallen into those kinds of cases. It's also striking that there have been no issues related to chlamydia infection, when you know that a number of women develop permanent sterility as a result of that type of infection, and never have children as a consequence of it. What is described by HivNorge in respect of some of the judgments that have been passed is also an understanding by the judge in the courtroom, which dates back to the 1980s and is not based on new knowledge. If it is true that treatment is not considered to be a pathogen in practice, there are entirely new problems associated with such a charge. Do you have to be charged and judged, maybe with a six-month sentence or a year, if you know positively that you couldn't infect the partner? Several of the convictions that have been passed are not about having infected someone, but about putting him in danger of being infected. SV's approach to this issue has not been to say that one should not be accused and judged for negligent behaviour. We have not so far decided to remove the possibility under Section 155 in the case of general infectious diseases. What we think is problematic is if you treat different groups completely differently, regardless of whether the risk of harming others may even be greater in other groups. That's where it's important to follow, to see how this is done. This is just one of several examples of how HIV infected people experience discrimination in Norway without any logical justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e946	The June Fafo report that the interpellant pointed to in its interpellation is a very important report, which gives us a lot of knowledge. At least I have to say for myself that it was very important and new there. The report concluded that there is very little knowledge about HIV/AIDS in general and about HIV infection in particular, and showed that young people aged 15 to 24 and those over 60 had the lowest knowledge. When, in particular, this large youth group has so little knowledge of HIV and HIV infection, we have to say that it is a very dangerous signal. Young people are of course trying, they're exploring. And the statistics show that last year there were 23,000 chlamydia cases in Norway. That means that the condom use among young people is very low. So here's a huge challenge. Young people need more information, and they need more knowledge. Here the school has a responsibility. We must be able to establish that the school has unfortunately not been successful here. Obviously, they are not able to do this. In another interpellation debate earlier today, on nutrition, there was someone who said that there must be contact with the Minister of Health, Solhjell. Then we talk about something as basic as knowledge of food and nutrition. I believe that there is an even greater need for cooperation between departments, because systematic knowledge-building is essential if we are to achieve a better system and better information – better for those who are infected and who are to live with their whole lives. In 2001, the fourth strategy plan for the prevention of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases came. It has our many strategic plans. As I said, this was the fourth, the first one probably came in 1985. This strategy plan should have been evaluated. I understand that this evaluation is not completed. This means that a new strategy plan, which is probably also on the stairs, must be postponed. And once again, it means that one really comes up with the heels all the time with regard to the main score: more knowledge-building. The Fafo report also reveals, as we have heard, very poor attitudes to the HIV positives in the population, in society and in the labour market – we talk about stigmatisation, about discrimination – and it is largely linked to what everyone has been about, simply lacking knowledge of HIV. Knowledge and awareness are not only important to prevent the individual from becoming infected, but also to ensure that HIV positives are guaranteed a decent and healthy life. Knowing how HIV is contagious, and not least how HIV is not contagious, which many people have been infected with, is important for everyone. Here it's a huge need for knowledge, it's absolutely certain. This is true in environments where infection is not very widespread, as in the more risky environments. The main key is – if you want to sum this up quite briefly – more knowledge, more information, more guidance, more education. Finally, I would like to point out that there are many voluntary organisations that have a high level of competence and insight in this field, and one of the leading organisations that have a very high level of competence and insight, is HivNorway, which someone has been involved in. I have a question for the Council of State at the very end: to what extent does the Ministry cooperate with HIVNorway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e966	First, I would like to thank the participants in the debate. I think it's been a great debate. It turns out that there's a lot of knowledge about HIV in this room, and that's a good thing for a better future. The representative Trettebergstien thought we should have such a debate all year round. I agree with that, and believe that as politicians we can be better off in different debates to involve this group as well as a group we should focus on regularly. I also agree with André Oktay Dahl that a strategy needs to be targeted at special groups, and that there might be some groups that have bigger challenges than others. As far as criminal law and Olav Gunnar Ballo's input here is concerned, I think it would be natural to take an assessment of it in connection with the work going on in the Justice Committee. In any case, real knowledge of HIV has evolved enormously over the past 20 years. A criminal law or a law must at all be based on new knowledge and on the knowledge we have per person. the date of issue. As I know it and from what Olav Gunnar Ballo says, it would therefore be natural to look at it. What the Council of State says is that the new Fafo report will address the problems of working life more thoroughly is positive. I think that is absolutely necessary, and we hope that it will be so thorough that we also see a number of measures that might be taken there. The strategies will be revised in 2009 and the main report will also come from Fafo in spring 2009. The question to the Council of State that I'm still left with here is, is there anything we can do now? We have a current strategy — is it possible to look at whether some of the measures can be given higher priority within this framework? What could at least be done was to give voluntary organisations a better opportunity now to work on attitudes, guidance and information aimed at this target group. I think that the HIV infected will be more impatient – rightly – when the Fafo report is available, and would like to get some action going faster than waiting for a new strategy plan. My question to the Council of State at the bottom of the debate is: does the Council of State have any means to use, and in that case what, which could make the situation a little better apparent? Perhaps some of the measures can be launched and prioritised before a new strategy plan is put in place, so that the infected do not feel that it is now coming to a standstill until this report and the strategy plan are completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e979	Last but not least, I think it is important to keep focusing on whether there is more to be done with the existing plans and budgets. I'm taking that challenge with me. But I needed to take the word one more time to be a little more precise about the further work on the new strategy plan. As I said, this main report from Fafo is expected to be available this year in 2008. An experience conference will then be initiated in the new year, when the results of the Fafos living conditions survey are available. It will be broadly composed. As I said, here the voluntary organisations and social partners are very important, as are the different levels and levels of government. As I said, a new strategy plan will be in place before the summer of 2009, i.e. in the first half of 2009. That means that while you're going to be impatient after taking advantage of the plans we have, we're now in a phase of quite intense work on setting a new strategy. I think that's important, because we don't have to get into a situation where we define HIV prevention work in Norway as something that's not important, and that it's just important to have your eyes out against the world. It is important to focus in Norway both on prevention and, not least, on making HIV livers whole people with natural rights in the Norwegian community. In the end, to answer the question of HIVNorway is an important partner, the organisation is absolutely that. It's one of the non-governmental organisations that we put a lot of emphasis on working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e990	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1006	Sometimes it is an advantage with a slight historical perspective before addressing the current challenges. It's been almost 25 years since I had the privilege of leading the first public investigation in Norway on the theme of care and care for seriously ill and dying people. It was delivered to the then Social Minister in 1984. I allow myself to base on the last sentences we wrote in that investigation. I quote: ‘It is the conviction of this sample that not only the consideration of those people who belong at all times to the category ‘seriously ill and dying’, but the consideration of the quality of our whole community suggests that care at the end of life deserves more attention and effort than is the case today. The priorities for health policy tasks in this area should therefore be high.’» It took exactly ten years for this NOU to be delivered until we established the first unit for relieving treatment at the cancer department at the hospital in Trondheim. After that time we have established a few special hospice departments; the most famous are Lovisenberg in Oslo and Haraldsplatz in Bergen. We also received a separate hospice department at the municipal health level at Stabeck. We found at that time, in 1984, that there were some obvious shortcomings, gaps, in the Norwegian health service in terms of care at the end of life. Among other things, we found that for some decades we had been building hospitals, without there being a single example that an architect or a building committee or someone else had been able to think that inside these houses people are going to die. Therefore, it had not been taken into account that there is a need for opportunities for relatives and the seriously ill person to communicate undisturbed with each other. In many cases, the only place to shake the patient was when it approached the end, the bathroom. Nor were there any examples that anyone had been able to think of the thought that there is a need for ceremonies after death has occurred, so that the relatives can in a worthy way get rid of the one who is dead. It's much better today, and there's reason to rejoice over it. There has been a significant awareness in all parts of the health care system that it is an integral part of the health care system’s task to take care of people in the final phase of life and its close relatives. When I've had the chance to talk about this to health professionals, and especially doctors, I've often said that I've always wondered that in medical science you're so concerned with statistics, all kinds of statistics. The only statistical date you're not interested in is essentially that mortality is 100 pst. – at least until further notice. This should be said to facilitate the situation, because this is the most general human being of all needs. Besides the needs associated with the entrance of life, the birth, this is the most general human being of all. The offer of palliative treatment, i.e. treatment that does not aim to cure or reverse a disease process, but to make the end as tolerable as possible, has evolved strongly over the past few decades. Today, we have knowledge that enables us to master most of the versions of physical pain. There is a very good effort here, although it is still not enough for knowledge to reach all parts of the healthcare system. The previous government took the initiative to create a separate grant scheme for municipalities that will establish offerings in the primary health service. There are many good reasons for this, because in hospital institutions there will very often be a need to organise a separate offer in this area. There have been quite a number of incidents, and in this area I think progress has been satisfactory. Ambulant palliative teams have also been established, a total of 18 Norwegian hospitals reported in the autumn of 2007 that they had such teams dealing with pain treatment. The challenges we are still facing have been summarized by the Hospiceforum Norway, which is an association of professionals who have worked and have extensive experience in this field, in some areas to which I would like to refer. It is about developing the provision of palliative services and hospital units in the extension of specialist healthcare services. These are individual palliative units in nursing homes for patients in need of interdisciplinary treatment and pain relief. And this is what we're about to expand. These are outpatient services for those who want to live at home for as long as possible, possibly to the end of the road. This offer may consist of units operated and operated for several decades in Oslo by the outpatient service of the French aid facility. This may be what is called home care service. Furthermore, home services in municipalities and other specialised services at this level can also make a significant contribution. In this field there is a lot missing today. We decided 25 years ago that the goal should be that everyone has a truly free choice, whether they want to spend the last time in their own home, or whether they want to spend it at a treatment institution. Then it is the fully-developed hospice units that are linked to the specialist health service, possibly also to the primary health service. I mentioned some examples of these. In this area, it is appropriate to note that developments have stopped and that nothing has happened in recent years in extending this offer. The Hospice Forum Norway calls for schemes to finance further development in this area, so that both municipalities and the state make a contribution. This is quite obvious from the fields where intermediate solutions will have a lot to do, i.e. offers which lie between the responsibilities of the specialist health service and the primary health service. During an interpellation debate in December 2006, the Brustad Council informed that in the wake of the grant scheme established by the previous government, 169 beds were set up in the hospitals for this purpose. In addition, she informed that 18 health-regions have established their own hospital facilities with relieving treatment. In the autumn of 2007, State Secretary Aaserud informed that the number of bed places in hospitals and hospitals was exactly the same as in the previous year. My questions to the Council of State are: Has the Government done anything concrete to follow up the promise of reading in the Soria Moria Declaration that it will strengthen the offer in this area? And if you haven't so far managed to make concrete offers that reinforce this, what thoughts do you have when you're on your way into the first turn of the last round of the government's working period? What measures are envisaged to strengthen supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1035	It's interesting to hear Inge's views on this important topic. I agree with the representative Wage that many patients in the final phase of life want to spend the last part of their lives at home or near home. Others want to be at an institution and get an organized offer there. In any case, safe surroundings are the most important for both patients and family members. Unfortunately, the offer to these patients is not good enough today. The government has therefore been constantly aware that the provision of this patient group should be improved in all parts of the healthcare system. Patients should be able to choose what feels safest and best for them and their relatives. It assumes that hospitals and community health services cooperate, so that the patient has access to specialist assistance, while receiving good, soothing care and care. There are good examples of the benefits of getting good deals when there are fires that start them up. It was also the representative on the payroll. ‘Project nursing home’ in Trondheim is one such offer. Here, the municipality and department of relief treatment at St. Olav's hospital have merged to provide nursing care facilities. This has been a success story since the beginning of 1998. Today, Havstein Sykhhemjem has been given special status as a nursing home. They have 12 beds, health professionals with special skills in palliation, slightly better nurses than normal nursing homes and a nursing home doctor in half. The patients admitted to the hospital are referred from the palliative team at St. Olav’s hospital, from home health care or from the clinics. Havstein Sykhhemjem works closely with St. Olav's hospital, for example: when patients need to have their medicines adjusted. That is how interaction and good use of our common resources must be facilitated. In the National Strategy for the Cancer Area 2006-2009, the Government has announced that the palliative supply should be strengthened and the interaction between services and levels of administration improved. The Health Directorate has launched the action programme on palliative treatment in cancer care, with a number of recommendations for good and consistent health care practices. If we're going to get a good relief treatment in the final phase of life, I think it's also about the overall resource situation in the care sector in health care. Everything that is done to make a positive contribution in this way is also positive for this area. In particular, competence will be important. Through the Competence Plan 2015, we will therefore ensure that the sector has sufficient professional and competent labour – even when there is a need for relief and care at the end of life. I would also like to point out that during today's debates we have several times been involved in this investment grant, which makes it possible to build several new care facilities with luck services in nursing homes and nursing homes. It is important to stress that in the grant guidelines we have made it clear that palliative units will also receive support. With this grant, we will encourage the municipalities to expand and develop the palliative care, because this is part of the municipal tasks. This is in line with the agreement reached at Stortinget on 30 November 2007 between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Parties agree that the investment grant may be granted for the development of palliative units. We also have a separate grant scheme for specific development measures in the field of relief and care at the end of life, on which the representative for pay was involved and managed by the Health Directorate. The grant has led to increased service provision and improved quality. Examples of what the grant has been awarded are actions to enhance the competence and capacity of outside hospitals and actions in educational hospitals. Subsidies have also been granted to several hospice sites, and many municipalities have received grants to increase the competence of health professionals. The purpose of the grant item is outlined in the 2007-2008 State Budget: Competence-enhancing measures for relief and care at the end of life are to be seen in the context of measures in the teaching homes. In this way, competence in relieving treatment is spread to all states of the country, through the professional network of educational hospitals. The supported projects shall have a national transfer value and plans must be in place for the continuation of the actions after the end of the project period. Many of those in need of relief and care need home-based services. In this area, more competence and knowledge are needed. The government proposes to develop educational home services, in accordance with the teaching home model, to ensure that experience is spread across the country through professional networks. In the 2009 state budget, we have proposed to strengthen the grant scheme for specific development actions with a total of 15 million. kr – there is almost a double between 2008 and 2009. The grant shall be used to establish educational home services, to maintain the activity of educational health homes and to enhance skills for relief and care at the end of life. The Regional Resource and Competence Centres for palliation, under the direction of health businesses, are a very important partner in the work on relief and care at the end of life. They also have an important role to play in research, professional development and empowerment. Today, all health regions have their own centres of expertise in this area, and the figures I have received show that hospitals have about 84 beds for relief. Patients receiving relief treatment often move between hospitals and hospitals or at home. In order to make the transition between services as simple as possible, several multidisciplinary palliative teams based at the hospital and cooperating with the community health service have been established. The interaction between these units, the teaching homes and the municipalities is essential for good treatment and good treatment at the end of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1058	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As of today, it is estimated to be 40 pst. of those who die at death in Norway, who die in hospitals. That's about. 38 pst. – a slightly lower number – who dies in a nursing home, while the number of those who die in their own home is less than half of this, 19 pst. No one knows for sure what is behind these numbers in terms of the actual desires of people who are in the final phase of life, but there is well reason to believe that there may be considerably more people who want to die at home than those who actually do. This is related to many factors, but first of all, it is related to the fact that you may not dare to put on your closest relatives what you think is a burden. This may be due to the feeling of great uncertainty by the lack of adequate access to medical competence if necessary. Therefore, I think that a key – if you want to create real freedom of choice – is to invite the primary health service to organise the medical offer so that you can call on medical help 24 hours a day if you need it. That, I think, is a key in this context. But then the second point, where I didn't really hear any clear response from the Council of State. In the case of the actual hospice, which is quite demanding departments, because they are to take care of the overall need for both the close relatives and the patient in the final phase of life, developments in Norway have stopped. Compared to Denmark, Denmark has invested heavily in this area and has an offer that is many times larger than what we have in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: wouldn't it be close to thinking that at least all the major regions in Norway had a well-developed hospice offer? That is not the case today. I actually don't think there are any other of the many excellent sub-measures on palliative care etc. which, either individually or in combination, can meet the same needs. I should like to hear the views of the Council of State on hospice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1071	To the specific question from the representative, I would like to say that I am very open to discussing the further development of a policy that ensures more hospice places. Now I'm not conveying a position, but I'm conveying a thought as an answer to that question. What I'm very concerned about is that there's obviously a big room between what's happening in a hospital, a highly specialized hospital, and what's happening in people's homes. Especially for those people who aren't old and so far don't live in a nursing home, I think there can be room for that kind of collaboration between hospitals and homes when you're in the final phase of life and need a good palliative treatment. In all areas, we see that the very kind of intermediate departments are obviously professional and human right. I have to say that my thought is that it is an exciting track to go after in order to strengthen the palliative treatment offer. This is absolutely something I want to include in the further work in this area. And throughout this interaction reform work, it is also important to have clear and unambiguous financial instruments for that type of unit in order to get them in place. What we see today is that hospice places are very often found despite the system, not because of the system. And once again, how we can put up the system so that we get good patient offers at the right level, because of the system, is, in my view, the core of some of the challenges we face. I'm basically positive to more hospice places, so we'll see what kind of grip is needed to get to a development in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1078	Palliation has its origins in the hospice movement. It is about pain relief, care and care, not focusing primarily on disease control or improving the disease, but on providing the best possible quality of life for the patient and its relatives. The aim of all this treatment is not to delay or speed up death, but to provide care and contribute to a worthy and natural death. The proximity of the home in the last phase is important to a lot of people. The goal is for most people to have the opportunity to be either at home or close to home, as far as possible. But it is only possible if the health care system is organised as a continuous chain with great flexibility. In addition, it is necessary to include the family as a resource, and to prepare and train relatives to care for the seriously ill. But what about those who don't have close relatives? There have been more and more of them. I was reminded of that yesterday, when one reminded me that very many people are alone in their own funeral. These also need palliative care. They also need to get an offer that can give them a decent end to life. Often, relatives make sure that a good offer is in place when the patient is so ill that he is unable to care for his own interests. During the last 15 to 20 years, several different palliative offers have been established. Through earmarked grants, as mentioned earlier, funds have been allocated to municipalities for training in relieving treatment. Fredrikstad was one of the municipalities that received NOK 250000 for the promotion of competence and networking. There was money that came along well, but there is still no palliative department at any hospital there. These departments are very expensive to operate, and often there is twice as high a manning factor there. And when there's too low hospital coverage in advance, it's very difficult to create such special offers without being given operational means. Relieving treatment targets both physical, mental, social and spiritual needs and religious anchoring. It is carried out by teams of well-qualified personnel and volunteers. Private operators with special competence should also be able to offer these services. It should be optional for those who are to receive the services so that they can receive an organised offer adapted to them. The Gjøvik College, which has its own education in palliative care, and the NFPM states that there is about always about 15 000 people in Norway who need palliative care. It's a very, very high number. What we have today is not in the vicinity of reaching these, nor is what we have planned so far. This means that there is an enormous need both for empowerment and for setting up own departments in municipalities and in the home service. Then the investment grant for the construction of dwellings was mentioned here, and that it would also include these palliative departments. That just means that there are even more people who have to divide into the barely 1000 dwellings that have been allocated to now. There should be consideration for the Government. I'm asking someone to consider whether that number should be upgraded quite dramatically. The 12,000 sites targeted by 2015 are not in the vicinity of meeting today’s needs. Palliation is also given to patients with chronic, advanced heart and lung disease, MS, AIDS and cancer. There is likely to be an increasing need to care for patients also over a long time, not only in the very last period. Many times it can take a long time before death occurs. The pressure on hospitals means that hospitals are increasingly faced with complex problems. And when we heard in a previous debate here that hospitals want fewer patients who are long-awaited, it requires both a strong empowerment and a completely different offer from what the municipalities are in the vicinity of having today. There is also a need for increased competence in medical training, and more research in palliative care is also needed. I hope that the Council of State will also take this up with the Council of State that has that responsibility, so that you can get both better skills and a better offer, adapted to all those who need such a kind of care in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1097	Care at the end of life is one of the most demanding tasks in health care, challenging both professionals and us as politicians. Every day, people experience serious illness and close losses that force them into a totally changed life situation. We meet such challenges differently, depending on how prepared we are, the life situation we are in, the response from the environment, and not least the help provided from the health and care services. Respect for human dignity is put on a serious test when we meet people in the final phase of life. It is in these situations that the real human vision of healthcare and health professionals comes for one day. It's just close to the extremes we find the value test pieces in our society. Human dignity is especially vulnerable to being violated or threatened in the final phase of life. Death is institutionalised, decriminalised and largely left to specialists. The main challenge must be to ensure that the individual patient is offered a good quality and at the right level of healthcare. As far as possible, provision must be made for healthcare to be provided as close to home as possible, at the patient’s own request, including at home for those who wish to do so, with the follow-up of e.g. an ambulatory team, as has been practised, inter alia: in Rome in Akershus for several years. A serious illness affects not only the patient but also the immediate family, friends and community. Many seriously ill people are often isolated. They are not seeking contact themselves. They're on the outside and they're afraid to be bothered. The specialisation in the health care system means that you can lose the whole of your care. This is where the hospice philosophy has shown its way. The basis of this philosophy is optimal treatment, care and care that addresses the physical, mental, social, spiritual and existential needs of patients. Good and thoughtful offers create trust and security for patients, for relatives and for staff. The main point is that people are met and seen. For many, it will be important to be at home in the final phase of life. Others want to be a place where they can get peace at a dignified end of life. This requires that we both provide good home-based care and at the same time build up more hospice as an offer to those who want this. I have visited Hospice Stabeck myself, who in cooperation with Bærum Hospital has a good and thoughtful offer that takes care of seriously ill and dying people. I really want to give tribute to the municipality of Bærum, which has contributed to the financing and prioritised such an offer. The Recedo Foundation is a non-profit foundation that aims to establish a stand-alone hospice, as an extra offer within the total palliative effort in Rome. The Foundation has developed a flexible offer, with daily and daily services and an outpatient offer that will satisfy many patients and the needs of families. It represents, as I said, an overall offer. It's more than symptom treatment, and it's more than a health service. The Recedo Foundation met constructively with former Health Minister Brustad in January of this year. In this meeting, the Recedo Foundation was strongly asked to submit an application to the Directorate for Social and Health for a five-year pilot project by 15 March. The application was sent, but it was rejected. A few weeks ago, the same foundation had a meeting with Secretary of State Sundsbø, and there was no way of taking a positive view of this project. So that's a lot of good words, but no action. Here, there are voluntary and professional forces that will contribute, but that will be rejected. Both competences and equipment in home health care need to be built up significantly if we are to get more valuable help and drop high-specialised hospital environments in the final phase of life. And the hospice capacity needs to be expanded. I would strongly encourage the Minister of Health to ask the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health to reconsider the request made by the Recedo Foundation for a five-year project. I promise I will follow through on this matter. I do not expect the Council of State to be able to answer now, but I will make sure that he gets a written question, so that he can deepen his positive attitude towards the hospice which he expressed in his last response to the wage, an attitude and a thought which I believe is uplifting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1123	It struck me when Inge Wohnning said that he had run a public body in 1984, that there must be no pay for the world. That selection gave NOU 1984:30, care and care for seriously ill and dying people. The reason why I say that is, is that wages have also led two priority committees. And what strikes you -- it's good work, I've read both of the prioritisation committees, but I'm not as familiar with the content of this -- is how little public investigation leads to a change in policy in a number of areas. As far as the priority committees are concerned, this is understandable, because when one says to politicians that they should give priority to something, it means that something else needs to be done away with. You'll be hanged out publicly to say that you shouldn't give priority to the area where you're going to do less. It's a challenge in relation to what we're discussing here. Given how many hospitals have been built in Norway and how much resources have been put in, if parts of it had been based on having emergency facilities at a hospital, or, for that matter, establishing a hospital, it would have been easy to implement a reform which significantly increased the capacity for emergency treatment. But what's a clear danger is if you're going to start blucopying the primary health service as if it were a mirror image of specialist health services, but with a number of new booths there as well. If you, for example, to render primary health care a specialist in palliative cancer treatment in the final phase of life, the general medical practice is wronged. General medicine is well suited to care for that type of treatment, with general education for general medicine specialists, and where it becomes part of the task. If you look at the reform, you can see that it has been very successful in many ways. You've been recruiting well. Several of those who warned against the reform later realized that they were recruiting well. The positions have been filled in most municipalities. But what has been harmed is often in many municipalities social medicine. Municipalities have been too little good at signing agreements with individual doctors. Maybe when you look back, it's also been given too few government leaders to set aside time to, for example, the kind of tasks we're discussing here. Because in combination with a type of hospital that I know well from Finnmark, or, for that matter, hospital emergencies, where either the prescribers follow up their own patients in the final phase or you have a type of supervision that then has to go beyond normal working hours, a number could be followed up and treated with pain-relieving drugs, some also for the sake of cell poisoning treatment in a phase before that. In this way, hospitals could have been relieved of as well as safe proximity to relatives where the individual sick lives. What you can also see is that some municipalities that have built up good home-based services have ensured a kind of continuity with cancer that makes them more comfortable at home than being in a hospital, or for that matter in a hospital. But it requires a kind of mandatory follow-up, especially by doctors, to which it is not readily apparent that doctors are willing to do so today. It's probably also about agreements. Because if you are so obliged in relation to those lists, but have little obligations in respect of other tasks, you simply won't do it. So that's a good tip to the Council of State in connection with the plan of interaction. There are major challenges here. An absolute look at the fixed medical system should be made at the possibility of taking part in major tasks here, for example: with the obligation to carry out community medical work once a week, in order to ensure that more people can be treated in the municipality, not least people who have serious cancer and are in the final phase of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1136	I want to thank the interpellant for raising this important interpellant. One of the greatest challenges we have is to ensure our sick and elderly dignity and good care in their last lifetime. This is a major challenge both for specialist health services and not least for municipal health and care services. Today, approx. 40 pst. — according to the figures we have — by the health care population, and the proportion is increasing. In this last phase, many will need care, care and treatment around the clock, for a shorter or longer time. Many, perhaps even more than today, would also want to be at home if they had sufficient security and help. We have a lot to do in Norway when it comes to care at the end of life. But we also have good examples and professional skills, which were also involved in the interpellant. Another example I would like to mention is from my own hometown, Bergen, from the Red Cross Hospital, where we find our own palliative department. They provide competent treatment, care and care for seriously ill and dying patients at home, in the hospital and in the hospital. An intensive dialogue between services contributes to the safety and predictability of patients and their families. It provides a complete range of services that meet the physical, mental, spiritual and existential needs of the patient. We should have had several such departments throughout the country. I think the state needs to get more involved than what you've done so far to get this done. In connection with St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, the Christian People's Party proposed that the Government should allocate funds through the 2015 care plan to both the establishment and operation of palliative units in the municipalities. It was only the opposition parties that supported this, and so unfortunately it did not get a majority in Stortinget that time. But then last year in connection with the old-age agreement that was concluded between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, we were given a new envelope so that the investment grant would also be granted for the expansion of palliative units. In the 2009 budget proposal, the Government confirms this, and it is good – as the Minister for Health was also involved. A cut in joy is nevertheless – and I have to repeat it even though I have said it earlier today – that the 1000 places that are promised for next year will not reach far. These facilities shall include all groups regardless of age, diagnosis or disability. Many are already in line today for a sick home or an organized home. Only in mental health do we know that, according to the escalation plan, there is a need for 2,700 organized sites. In a debate on care at the end of life, I think it is right to mention a development that we have to make sure that will not become a reality in Norway. This is the serious development of some European countries in the area of active death assistance. Today this is legalised in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland. It has been expected that other countries, such as England and France, can come after quite quickly. So a little bit about the modern hospice movement. It started with nurse Cicely Saunders. She discovered as a young nurse that dying patients could have a good life until recently, if they received good treatment and care also at the psychosocial and spiritual level and good pain relief. I want to end this article by quoting Cicely Saunders: ‘How humans die remains as important memories of those who live on. Both for them and for the patient, it's our job to know what causes pain and distress, and how we can treat these plagues effectively. What happens during the last hours before a human being dies can play many previous wounds, or remain unbearable memories that prevent the road through grief.» I think we can all recognize ourselves in these words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1165	In the main hall, it's sometimes interesting to sit and keep up with the debate. This has been such a debate. You feel like you're learning a lot. It's a very good interpellation, which has been followed up with many good posts. What I think is particularly important is to be able to get the good meetings between the health worker, the patient and the relatives. Having a good frame around this that adds to it, I think it's absolutely crucial to get a worthy exit. I think there's a lot of good going on at the hospital, and I've been to several such meetings myself. I think a lot of hospitals are good at putting conditions well into place to get good frames around this. I think it's more difficult in the specialist health service, which is very price-funded, targeted and where it's a very efficiencies me. That interpellation, as I see it, is just how we, as health politicians, can ensure that we have room for social practices, social meeting places, and can meet these needs throughout the service. How can we get to the dignified meetings with the dying patient – in the ambulance, as it may be, in the emergency room, or wherever it may be in the healthcare system – and get the natural respect and dignity between those affected, those who work there, and the relatives? I think the hospice at Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, Sunniva Hospice at Haraldsplass Diakonale Hospital and the kind of institutions that take place have a lot to teach the entire specialist health service and everyone who works in the healthcare system. The hospices of the two hospitals I mention, both of which are diaconals, are an interaction. There are private ideas that lie at the heart of it, but there has been an interaction between the private and the public. When you look at public schemes that come, there are often some private promoters, ideal foundations, that lay the foundation, and eventually you see that there may be something that the whole tool can learn from. I think the debate today illustrates in a very good way how these diaconal hospitals, like Lovisenberg and Haraldsplatz, can teach something to the public hospital sector about encounters between dying, health professionals and relatives. I've read a little bit about how those who work at the hospice department at the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, emphasize that here there's no kind of preaching, here's just the space between people, and there I think we have a lot to learn. I'm very glad that Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is so open in his approach to the interpellation. I think here we can see a positive development in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1180	This interpellation focuses on a very important theme. It's a theme and a debate that the Left is also very concerned about. Health at the end of life and death are often difficult to talk about in everyday life, but it is also very difficult to talk about in politics. But I think we politicians don't have to shade away. The left wants the best possible treatment for human beings in the final phase of life. If it is best to die at home or in a nursing home, it must be provided for. I think most people want the final phase of life to be in a safe environment, and it's often at home or in a hospital. For this reason, the Left wishes to strengthen its competence in hospitals and in the municipal health services. I think that in hospitals, more laymen and nurses with competence in complex diseases are needed, and that they have to be able to make decisions when it comes to the elderly who are in the final phase of life and most of all need rest around them. There is too little competence in hospitals today. Extensive operations need to be assessed to a greater extent in the light of general health conditions. It is a fact that overtreatment is a problem. Every day in Norwegian health institutions, we can find dying patients who are being treated unnecessarily and not least as a result of harassment, for example. probe feeding, use of respirator and cell poison. In my opinion, it is necessary that the laymen in hospitals bring to the square their limitations against curing death when he opens up. In addition, it is important that medical personnel outside hospitals preside over their own participation in the end of life, and that patients and relatives are banned. Sickness homes and home care have initially good remedies for pain and depression in a last life phase. However, there is a problem that municipalities have neither personnel nor financial resources to provide the assistance and support necessary to provide the patient with satisfactory security. Upgrading of several parts of the health service outside hospitals is therefore very necessary in order to achieve a decent end to life, in the home or in the hospital. I think that a more conscious person must work with abstinence to death. We politicians must also take part in that debate. We all have to acknowledge more strongly that death itself is not a disease, but the most natural part of a life, as the interpellant said earlier here today. Of course, the end of life shall be given priority equivalent to other patient care. Patients in the final phase of life have a sun-clear right to good and adequate relief from plagiaristic symptoms and to good palliative treatment. But it must be avoided that dying is plagued unnecessarily in the last days and weeks of its life. 80-90 pst. patients know it when they are dying. In addition to good pain relief, trust between patients and treating them is very important. Information, communication and being able to talk to someone at this stage of life are also particularly important. Medical treatment cannot replace a trusting, open and honest dialogue between patients and treating patients. I think you need to install more resources here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1202	Although I am no longer a member of the Health Committee, I feel that I need to speak on this matter. There have been many good posts in the hall. You talk a lot about palliation, but really little about hospice and what's the very philosophy behind hospice, and I miss that. There is one element that has been omitted from the interpolation text. In the interpellation text, it says «physical, mental and spiritual needs», whereas I think it should have been «physical, mental, social and spiritual needs», because the social aspect is very important at hospice. Hospice, as opposed to palliation, has this element, among others. in the case of volunteers, which is an important part of the idea of treating the seriously ill and dying. I got a job at Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital in Bergen for eight years. There's Sunniva Hospice. Sunniva Hospice is not just for people who lie in bed and are going to die. What was very important in that offer was, among other things, The day-care centre, where people could come and meet other patients who had a fatal diagnosis, and not least get to meet volunteers who set up and wanted to make their everyday life and medical history as good as possible for the patient. Hospice is important, and I think it's nice that the health minister stops by this that there might have been a hospice department in every healthcare company. In addition to being an offer to individual patients through day centres, but also beds when people are going to die and are no longer able to stand on their legs, hospice has a great task of teaching not only in the specialist health service but also in the community health service. When hospice works well, hospice is the important intermediary between the community health service and the specialist health service that makes patients either at home or in a bed on a hospice, are surrounded by the same people. Training for people working in the community health service is a very important part of both Sunniva Hospices and certainly Hospice Lovisenberg's business. So to the social aspect. Family members meet other relatives, even after the loved one is dead, because they have collections, follow-up, etc. in retrospect. So what makes hospice different than usual palliation is that there are dimensions of this that one does not have within a hospital, and not necessarily in a small municipality, but it can act as power centers for the community health service and for the specialist health service around the regions. Then I think I've said what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1217	This has been a positive debate, which has highlighted a literally vital theme. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State in its second response went so far in agreeing to the views on the further development of the hospice tank and the hospice institution in Norway. I'm very happy about that. The representative, Mr. Ballo, said that it was an incongruous task to do research work. I do not agree with that. It's actually a grateful task, but sometimes you can be confused that it's going on for so long from the time you've shown a need until we're able to find ways to cover it. It took exactly ten years from we launched the hospice tank in the 1984 investigation to the first little realization. It shouldn't be necessary that we take so long to realize something that is obviously needed. So back to the basic question: why has development become such that the more specialised the health care system has become, the more it seems that the completely elementary tasks are neglected? I think that's an explanation for that. We're getting better and better at dealing with the highly specialized, but we're getting less and less able to see the very simple problems and take care of them. The classical medicine had three strings: healing, soothing and consoling. Today you can get the impression that we've pushed so much of the weight over to the first keyword, heal, that there's almost nothing left for the other two. That's why it might be worth rounding this out by reminding us that the ancient Greeks who formulated the original medical ideal, leave it out as follows: Well, in some cases, we can do health, and you can add: fewer than we like to believe, we can make things easier in most cases. Comfort we can do in everyone. It should be said that you end up with the habit of saying what can still be heard in the health care system when you find that a curative treatment is not working: unfortunately, there is nothing more we can do. Well, it's definitely something more you can do, but this'more' has a different character than the attempt to cure. It simply has the simple character of helping a person to live until that door, even after finding that healing does not lead to healing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1230	Finally, I should also like to thank you for an interesting and inspiring debate. I believe that in this area it is so that it has happened very much positive over many years through changing governments. At the same time, I think it is easy for us in this room to see that we are still not there that we can say that we now have an offer to people in the final phase of life that we are satisfied with, and that we believe is satisfactory. I believe it is important for me, as the responsible health minister, to stress that both the specialist health service and the municipal health service have a responsibility that not everyone takes seriously enough today. We have to point that out, and we have to be clear about that, so that we can focus on the development of palliative treatment in everyday life. We have taken action as we are in the process of further developing, while it is interesting to be involved in a discussion about the whole idea of hospice and it has something between home, hospital and hospital that is characterized by a supplementary content. I just want to repeat that it seems interesting to me to continue working forward. I think we have to take a joint responsibility for that. I don't think – without feeling that it was what the representative Sjéli thought – you have to treat the application from the Recedo Foundation as a signal as to whether you are positive or negative to the hospice. I only have a magazine in it now very quickly, and I see that the first year you apply for 55 million. NOK in grants. Of that, 45 million. SEK for construction, on a total grant item of 21 million. kr in allocation, but nothing for building. If you get no on such an application, it is not an expression of an attitude towards hospice. There is an opinion on a particular application, which I believe may be good, but which is not at all appropriate to the subsidy item applied for. It may be that it's possible to go on with such a thought in another context, but it's not an expression of a point of view on either Recedo or hospice. It is an expression that no more money can be allocated than what is in the post office, and you cannot be granted in violation of the authorization from the Stortinget, which is not in the direction of construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1246	That is when the debate is on case No. End of 7. We have now come to case No. 8, suspension by the Financial Committee of amendments to the Decision of the Storting of 27 November 2007 on the contribution to the Treasury of Inheritances and Gifts for the 2008 Budgetary Mine. Before we deal with this matter, the President will show that the suspension has not been in the regulatory period of 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. Carl I. Hagen – the President expects it to be for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1258	Of course, this is for the proceedings. I can start by suggesting that the matter is not dealt with at today's meeting, but I refer you to the procedure in accordance with Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the so-called 48-hour rule. I would like to be allowed to justify this and say a little about the procedure so far. It is such that the Financial Committee discussed this matter at its meeting on 8 October and then adopted a plan of progress based on yesterday's decision by the Financial Committee and that the matter should be brought on the current map. In the context of the meeting of the Financial Committee, the matter is referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. 8 made the following protocol entry – even if it is in the wrong place in the protocol: «The members of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left strongly oppose the way in which the case has been dealt with, in particular in relation to Section 97 of the Constitution. In the event of reconciliation, there were 9 to 8 votes in favour of the propulsion plan.’» It wasn't 9-9 because a member was absent at the meeting, something you might be able to get back to in a different context. A letter was also sent from the Financial Committee to the Presidency. This was discussed at the Presidency meeting last Thursday. There it is said that it was written of October 7th d.a. by the Financial Committee - i.e. dated the day before the Financial Committee discussed and discussed the matter. The formal writing to the Presidency was thus written according to these papers the day before the Financial Committee dealt with it. However, there was nothing – and that may be the reason why no one was expected to do so – in the letter from the Financial Committee to the Chair of the Financial Committee that there had been a debate in the Financial Committee and that the Financial Committee had been divided in the middle. I think it would have been proper to make the Presidency aware of that. When the Storting should decide on this, I also think it would have been natural if the President in his introduction to the presentation of the proposal had informed that it was being discussed in the Presidency, and that what has been done was the following protocol: ‘The Presidents of Hagen, Salaries and Loans requested F.O. [[48-hour rule]] § 32 on the basis of which the case was to be dealt with.’ I have therefore put forward proposals to follow the usual procedure. I would also like to say that we have a regulation with deadlines in the Rules of Procedure precisely to ensure that they are respected when it comes to difficult and debated matters. Sometimes, when the whole Storting agrees to be able to deviate because it is a de minimis matter, I can accept this, and have done so in several cases. But when the Storting is divided in the middle, and the government parts of the degrees run over, and to those degrees it takes too much to be taken into account, several of us have reacted quite strongly. That is the background to my alternative approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1281	In the light of what Mr Hagen just said, I would like to stress that the written summons to the Presidency was signed and sent after the Financial Committee adopted its progress plan. I want to clarify this, so there won't be any misunderstanding. It is also the case that President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Jagland, is aware that there are differences of opinion in the Committee on Budgets on this matter, so that we have played with open and tidy cards from the Committee on Budgets. Then it is right for the representative, Mr Hagen, to say that there are differences of opinion within the committee, between the opposition on the one hand and the majority of the committee on the other, about the pace of discussion. The majority decided then that we should have a quick handling of this matter. St. pp. No 3 for 2008-2009 is a proposal from the Government on immediate measures that it is important to adopt quickly, in order to avoid adaptations. I don't want to go into reality, but I would like to stress that that's why we've added up to such a quick handling. Finally, I would like to ask the representatives of the Government Party to follow the President's request that we take the matter under consideration at this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1292	The President finds reason to stress what the representative Sandal said: I was informed that there was a minority in the Finance Committee in this matter, and I informed the Presidency about it when we dealt with it. I also concluded that there was contact between the various representatives of the Presidency and their parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1295	It cannot be the case that the Grand Duchy’s Finance Committee does not have sufficient time to deal with its cases. We now hear the chairman of the committee say that this was because the government wanted to do it this way. The government has other ways in which they can promote matters in order to increase the tax burden. But that's another story. It is very good that the Presidency has been awake and looked at this matter. It wasn't just a minority in the finance committee, it was a big minority. I think it was recorded with the chairman's double voice that you should not follow a normal and proper procedure. There had been nothing in the way that the matter could have been dealt with quickly, but properly. There was an overall opposition in the committee, and the right is going to vote in favour of the proposal by the representative Hagen who has been promoted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1304	Since the Left is not represented in the Presidency, I find it right to clarify our view of this procedure. I will first join the representatives of Hagen and the Fleet. I would like to add that in such a complicated and complex matter, the finance committee has actually had a Friday and a few morning hours on a Monday to work on the matter. We didn't have the opportunity to go into this thoroughly. Of course, we were given the opportunity to ask questions to the Ministry of Finance. Everyone who reads the answers sees that in good Norwegian it is ‘Good day, man!’ ‘Oxeskaft’ response. So we're going to go to treatment, maybe, with a 48-hour discount, of a matter where I'm absolutely sure the Storting doesn't overlook the consequences of what you're about to do. Yes, power clearly also appears when it comes to the detriment of fundamental procedural principles and – I would say – democratic rights for a minority. I would ask the representatives of the Left to vote against this being discussed at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1314	The Christian People's Party will also vote in favour of the proposal put forward by Mr Hagen. The opposition believes that two rounds of time have not been given enough time to assess this specific matter. Firstly, we still believe that we did not have enough time in the committee to deal properly with the consequences of the decisions that might be taken later today, and secondly, that the Stortinge neither has had the allocated time to deal with the matter and its consequences. But we also record power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1321	First of all, let me say that I fully agree with Mr Hagen that the general freedom of exemption contained in the ordinary Rules of Procedure cannot be understood as having the possibility of exemption in matters where there are fundamental substantive problems. The general use of dispensation must be reserved for those times when keeping to formalia would lead to pointless consequences. That is as far as I can see, not the case in this case. The main reason why I found it necessary to ask for the floor is that I will give a firm warning against the treatment the government parties have set up here, creating a precedent for the future. That would be very unfortunate. In the letter received from the Financial Committee, the Presidency did not say a single word about the reason why it wanted to derogate from the Rules of Procedure. I think that is very critical. But I understand that the reason is that the Government will prevent tax adjustment. We have good procedures in Stortinget when that's the motive. It tends to be treated in secret meetings. There is an effective method of preventing inappropriate forms of tax adjustment. In this case, I believe that this will be the gamefecture. Those who keep up with good tax advisors have understood the drawing a long time ago. They have probably made the necessary arrangements far too far, so that the whole reason for evading the Storting's own legislation is not really present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1330	The discussion on how to deal with this matter is closely linked to the content of the matter, and several of those who have spoken have also raised the question of the substance of the matter. We will get back to that properly after we have determined the treatment form here now. There has been a clear need on the part of the Government and on the part of the government parties on the Stortinget to ensure that this case, which is about limiting the possibilities of tax adjustment for the richest people in this country in a law that would provide tax relief to 90-95 p.m. by the population of the country in relation to inheritance. It has been necessary to ensure that treatment is administered rapidly. Then it has been important from the point of view of the position, that is, of the government parties, to ensure that in the handling of this matter as much time as possible was given before the decision was taken to ensure that all the necessary questions that the opposition needed to ask the government were possible. That is why we have said that it was better to ask the Presidency whether this matter could be dealt with with with with the shortest possible time after the committee's release, which was done yesterday. As I said, we come closer to the content of the treatment here, but I just want to point out that in other cases where we want to avoid tax adjustment, the Government has in its presentation ensured that the proportion proposition was designed in such a way that the decision came into force from the time it was presented. This is not possible in connection with the inheritance tax case. That is why we have asked for the treatment that we have proposed today. This is well justified, and I think the result will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1341	If the government had had the same point of view as Heikki Holmås had now expressed, the government would just use the alternative method to which Legging President Inge Wohnning now referred, namely not to present it in an open meeting, but in a secret meeting for secret treatment until it was over – if it were considered, as Heikki Holmås has now pointed out. This has been known since the financial speech and the state budget were presented, and then you have to cut in just one day, because one day, as it should be, is what prevents those who are able to exploit it. That, I think, is a very bad reason for going away from the 48-hour rule, which is just to take into account all those who are affected by matters. If the government has been concerned about tax adjustment or that some registered inheritance just during this period, it has nevertheless gone away because the matter was not submitted to the Stortinget in secret meeting after the secret committee meeting, and thus was not publicly known until the decision was taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1346	Several have not asked for the word for the question of whether the case should be examined today or not. Let's go to voting. The President's proposal is that the Stortinget departs from the provisions of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the matter is now under consideration. Carl I. Hagen has proposed that the matter should not be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1374	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1383	Why this inheritance tax case? In presenting the previous State budget, we have a number of examples of changes in taxes on wealth or income from the day the State budget became public, even if the decision on this tax change is taken at a later date in the same year. This is not affected by Section 97 of the Constitution, because income and wealth taxes for the calendar year are offset against income for the whole year and wealth at the end of the year. In the case of inheritance tax, however, fees are calculated on the basis of inheritance tax rules at the time of succession. In order for this to be realised in this case in accordance with the Basic Law § 97, a decision is taken today that will take effect from today on such succession settlements as are described in the proposition. What is the matter? In Ot.prp. No 1 is proposed to reduce significantly from 1 January 2009 in the provisions of the Inheritance Tax Act for the valuation of unlisted shares and units in partnerships and limited liability companies. This creates a need for immediate action in this area in order to counteract extensive adaptations from the time the proposal became known and until the turn of the year. Paragraph 97 of the Constitution prohibits the retroactive application of succession tax legislation until a date prior to its adoption. The normal legal treatment of all Government's amendments would give liberal time to transfer shares and shares under the applicable rules before the adoption of new legal provisions. This allows for delayed gift transfers of shares and shares in unlisted companies in the rest of 2008 which can significantly reduce the importance of tightening up. The government's proposal for amendments to the legal framework for the valuation of unlisted shares and units implies that the discount is reduced from 70 to 40 p.p. and that it is limited to an inheritance tax base of 10 million. kr related to unlisted shares and shares of the individual beneficiary. It should only be one discount cap per. recipient, no matter how many times he or she receives shares/units of inheritance/gifts, and no matter who is the he or she gives. Values in excess of 10 million. kr shall be included in the inheritance tax base of 100 pst. Furthermore, it is proposed to take into account changes in ownership of the company’s capital between 1 January 2008 and the date of the provision of the services in determining the inheritance tax base for unlisted shares and shares. In this context, the Government proposes that the above-mentioned amendment be introduced as immediate measures for taxable persons for the remainder of 2008. It is proposed to amend the Decision of the Storting of 27 November 2007 and to levy a State guarantee fund for the 2008 budgetary mine in respect of unlisted shares and shares in partnerships and limited liability companies which are donated. The policy measure adopted today does not apply to inheritance in case of death in 2008. The rules are designed in this way because the succession at death is not related to adaptation to new rules. It is only gifts that are covered. In the case of gifts, taxable persons may choose to defer donations to changes in the inheritance tax law and tax rates are in place from 1.1.2009. Therefore, there should be no obligation to make transfers of gifts under the transitional regime which the immediate measures establish until the end of the year. The members of the Finance Committee of the Government of the Parties align themselves with the Government's proposals for urgent measures. All proposals for the 2009 State budget, including decisions on inheritance fees, shall be made through an ordinary consultation session of the Financial Committee. If, in this consultation round, there are material facts that the Government has not stressed or been aware of in what has been submitted, the view of the Centre is that the decision taken by the Stortinget pursuant to this recommendation may be amended, if appropriate, in the ordinary position of the Committee on the State Budget in 2009. The members of the Committee from the opposition parties oppose the present proposal to amend the Decision of 27 November 2007 on the inheritance tax of Storting. They say, among other things: the case ‘formally concerns the effects of a previous merger tax decision for the current year’. That's not right. The proposal simply means that it should not be retroactive, and the proposal applies, as previously mentioned, only to inheritance, not to transfers in respect of death.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1417	Just a brief question to the representative Lundteigen: Does he think that Norwegian businesses and enterprises that transform in connection with generational changes deserve a so-called summary treatment from Stortinget's Finance Committee on important issues relating to their future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1422	As I said in my post, it is not added up to a summary treatment. It is provided for proper treatment in an ordinary way. What we're doing now is we're making an urgent decision, so that the adjustments that some people might want to make can't be implemented. At the same time, if, at the hearing, it appears that there are circumstances or situations which differ significantly from those presented by the Government, it shall, through an in-depth examination within the Committee and may, where appropriate, lead to changes to the Government's proposal at the examination of the Committee and of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1427	I recorded – and it was very gratifying – that the representative Lundtigen now keeps the doors slightly open so that something can happen in the hearing of the Financial Committee on the issue of inheritance tax. I guess the lobbyists are now fixing the shot at the Center Party in the weeks ahead. And then we'll see if it'll be an opening from the central party big group if you actually want to turn around. This proposal by the Government is obviously not as firm as you might get the impression when you listen to the Minister of Finance. But over to what I should ask for. I now record that after this proposal became known, especially professional organisations and others are very concerned about a good number of corner stone companies in District Norway, which can now be hit in a very unprofitable way, and which may be struggling unnecessarily in the situation we are now in. Will these be arguments that are important for the Center Party and Per Olaf Lundtigen, and that can actually help reverse the decision you are now making?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1434	What I answered the previous question and said in my introduction was that we should ensure that we did a proper and thorough procedure here, while at the same time putting an end to adjustments that would reduce the effects of it, and that too many people would be seen as unreasonable when others did not have the opportunity to make such adjustments in the short term. With regard to the substance of the matter and what is being discussed here, the stock discount is a central point. The stock discount has previously been removed in respect of property valuation, and is proposed here for the portion of inheritance that goes beyond 10 million. kr. It's a question of judgement, of how it's supposed to be transformed, but the centre party is fully behind the proposal that is. It is a balanced solution in relation to the different considerations to be taken. When one knows that deposits are valued at 100 p.m., it is not unreasonable that one here makes changes to other real assets in the inheritance tax calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1441	The centre party has traditionally been in this room, along with some of us others, a warm defender of family ownership and the family-run businesses. Not least at a time when turbo-capitalism causes jobs to shift owners at a speed and scale that is hardly possible to follow, stable family ownership and private ownership in Norwegian business have been important. The former parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, said to today's industry in the autumn of 2005, November 16, when the first government budget from the sitting government was presented, which also had a very strong attack on family business: "It is very unpleasant, to say it right out." It is obvious that Lars Peder Breck, who is now part of the Government, must have lost this case. In the past, the representative Lundtigen has made it a point that the centre party should make the camels visible to the government. My question is simply: Did this taste good?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1450	There is no doubt that the Central Party is in the tradition that through hard work and sobering lifestyles you generate profits, which are then invested either in family businesses or in other businesses. In all the Center Party has done, and everything we stand for, we have put it into practice, while at the same time providing taxes and taxes according to your ability, so that you can make a burden-sharing to finance the community's benefits according to your ability to pay. The proposal presented here in relation to the inheritance tax is a balanced proposal in relation to the two principles, and I would like to stress here that it is central that the way in which we organise the inheritance tax rules must also be seen in relation to how we have organised taxation in the context of wealth. So it's a whole that we're fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1458	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1461	I agree with the assessments made by the case-speaker in his post. It is clear to me that the existing inheritance tax system is not satisfactory. It is characterized by a lack of equal treatment. In turn, this has led to the system having had too weak legitimacy. On the basis of this recognition, the 2008 State budget announced that the inheritance fee would change and make it fairer. For this reason, the Government follows up the matter in the 2009 budget. Strong increases are proposed at the entry point, and tax rates are significantly reduced. At the same time, the discount on unlisted axles is limited. It's assumed to be at least 90 pst. of all persons who pay the inheritance tax shall pay less to the State as a result of the changes proposed here. The Workers' Party is clearly satisfied with the Government's arrangement. A broader treatment of cases will come back later in the fall. All elements of the new inheritance tax system will then be debated. Thus, the proposals for a change in the inheritance fee should be fully addressed in Stortinget later in the fall. What this assembly has to decide on today is immediate action – and only that. The aim of these measures is to counteract adaptations from the current date until the new year. Such adjustments may be made by providing unlisted axles and shares in the form of deferred gifts until 1 January 2009. Only gifts are covered by the decision that Stortinget has been invited to do later today. The taxable persons are free to defer the gift transfer for the establishment of the inheritance tax law with the corresponding changes in the rates from 1 January next year. So it's not exactly the minority in the setting that an unadapted generation shift leads to a doubling of the value ratio while keeping the 2008 tax rates at bay. In the setting, the minority argues that ‘the case is formally related to the back-effects of a previous wholesale charge decision for the current year’. That is not correct. The decision taken by the Storing after all solar panels later today shall take effect in time from the date of adoption of the decision. Saka has been carefully assessed, also legally. There is, of course, formal coverage that the Stortinge may decide in plenary session in autumn 2008 on the basis of which the inheritance tax is calculated, as proposed in St.prp. No 3 for 2008-2009. If it had not been such a formal home, the matter would obviously not have been brought before the Storting in this way. I would point out that the changes proposed for the inheritance fee are based on the legitimacy of the system. A transformation that opens up significant adaptations that can especially benefit the most prosperous in society will definitely not increase the rise in inheritance fees. On this basis, the Labour Party immediately supports the measures proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1478	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1481	I will stick to the formalities and not go into the matter itself – it has been understood that it has come up badly since then, and it may even happen that there are changes in what is proposed in the motion for a resolution. But my question to the chairperson of the committee is this: is there anything in the committee's consideration of this matter and the subsequent relationship between the committee chair of the committee and the presidency that the chairperson of the committee believes could have been done differently in order to provide a better basis for the committee to deal with that kind of matter in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1486	My assessment is that the way we have arranged to deal with matters both within the Committee and here in the Stortinget now fills the formal requirements, as well as that there are factual arguments purely political in order to do so. This is an immediate measure to counteract tax adjustments, and it has been done in a number of previous circumstances. What is special about this case, which we cannot compare with changes that have occurred in property and income taxes before, where they have retroactive effect, is that Constitution sets limits on dealing with inheritance taxes. There can be no effective date until the date of adoption of the decision, unlike when it relates to the types of tax matters that I mention. I believe that the way we have handled the matter is clearly satisfactory, and has no reason to complain when it comes to dealing with the Presidentship of Storting. In addition to formality, I have also had verbal communication with the staging president on the matter several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1491	I noticed that the head of the committee rejected the most determined thing that this has any retroactive effect. And so far, in relation to the basic law's rules on retroactive effect, I agree, but there can't be any doubt that for those who are subject to a tax regime for 2008, it will necessarily be retroactive, in the sense that you can no longer rely on what was actually adopted for this year when the Storting made its tax and tax decisions soon a year ago. It is the real thing in it in my opinion, without there being a legal barrier to so-called retroactive force. But then I noticed that Lundtägen, on behalf of the Center Party, said that if there were any unfortunate results in this that were now adopted, you would come back to it and be open to change. Is there anything that only applies to the Center Party, or does it apply to the majority of the coalition?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1498	Let me underline that in a number of previous circumstances, for example: when the Storting introduced the dividend tax, decisions have been taken at one time, but the date of effect was much earlier. This possibility does not exist when it comes to inheritance tax treatment, so we have to choose a different approach to treatment from what it was put up for then. The formal aspects of the case have been carefully assessed. I point out that the Ministry of Justice's law department, for example, has endorsed the procedure chosen here and has explicitly stated that plenary decisions taken by the Storing are legal at that time. That's why we've done it this way. So I just want to say that this case we've been working on for a long time, and the proposal that the Government has made, I think is a very solid proposal. I'm not here to signal that there's a need to make any real-life changes in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1505	I would like to repeat the question from the representative Syversen, because the representative Lundteg said he could reconsider the position if there was to be new information. The representative Sandal says that he has studied this so carefully that there is probably not going to be any new information. But when the representative Lundtigen represents the same government that Sandal represents, or the same constellation, I have to assume that they have spoken together. What kind of information does the representative Sandal think the representative Lundtigen may be looking for, and will you perhaps talk to the representative Lundtigen so that you can agree on what kind of information might be sufficient to change the government's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1512	I have heard the representative Tybring-Gjedde more accurate than in the quote he just outlined, both when he refers to what I have said, and also what the representative Lundteg should have said. I can limit myself to saying what is my main point of view: I have been working on this matter for 1 1/2 years, and I am very satisfied with the result that has been achieved. It's a proposal that, when it comes to the realities of the matter, clears up into an unfortunate regime, strengthens legitimacy, creates a fairer system, until overtime makes it easier for more than 90 pst. of those who are subject to inheritance tax, and it has a very good social profile. I am very pleased, and therefore I do not need, unless a whole new and unknown problem arises, to signal that there is a need for some change in the proposal presented by the Government. I'll be happy to stand up in this room and defend it in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1519	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1522	Let me first say that the Advance Party is a party that wants to liquidate the entire inheritance fee. If one had been in such a situation, we would at least have avoided this kind of discussion and this discussion about adaptation, because then there would have been nothing to do. For the proceedings: We now had a discussion here, where the Storting decided whether to deal with the matter. I've found that the government parties, who defend this conversion, are very concerned about clarifying that there are few consequences here, and they clearly say that those who are strongly opposed to this are drawing a scare image that is not the basis for this. But if it is such that this has little impact on the companies that have now notified of this, it is strange that you have such an extreme urgency to get this case through, so that you even have to circumvent the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It makes me stun, and I put big question marks on what is really so important that you don't, for example. could deal with this matter tomorrow. But okay, leave that debate behind – the majority has spoken. The majority says that 90 pst. will be facilitated by making these changes. But that means that someone doesn't get any relief, someone gets the opposite, because this is going to be financed. I recorded in the debate earlier today in connection with the proceedings that the representative Heikki Holmås says that there is a change here to take the richest, from the richest. Then I think you have a bad sense of reality about who you're actually taking from. I think that as a politician you should listen a little to what the trade unions say, what the business themselves say, and what the businesses involved actually say. Media has now done the job that we don't have time for. Because of this extremely rapid treatment, the media are now fortunately able to provide examples of how this change from the majority affects a number of companies. In particular, it's strange, with a party like the Center Party in government, to see a number of examples from just District Norway that many corner stone companies, as I see it, are being unfairly affected by these conversions from the majority. How the Center Party can feel good about itself in relation to this, I have no idea, but I hope the voters will record how to hit parts of the business. Before I went to the pulpit, I thought about what to say. And yesterday I registered a chronicle in today's business of the CEO of HSH, Vibeke H. Madsen, and I want to make some quotes from there. Because what she's saying is very good, and then I shouldn't come up with new words. She says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘Bringing down the access to capital of many enterprises in a situation of financial turmoil, high interest rates, economic downturn and where access to capital becomes more difficult may prove to be critical. Most Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway are family-owned. [[...]] The total family business is estimated to be about two thirds of all establishments in Norway. A large part of these are found in District Norway, and many are corner stone farms in local communities. The personal/family-owned enterprises account for a large part of the Norwegian value added, worth SEK 350 billion and employment of 650 000 employees. [[...]] And if the company is facing a generation change, as a lot of companies are doing right now, the inheritance tax could be decisive for the next generation's ability and willingness to continue. The sum may be lost by several jobs. When the government chooses to make the inheritance fee more edible to most people, why did it have to make it even more difficult for the family businesses?’ This is what Vibeke Madsen asks about, and I end up with that question: Why all the days? Why now, when the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and others with a serious mine come up with emergency measures and discuss the situation we now have in Norwegian business in connection with the international financial turmoil? Why is there an attack on family-run businesses in Norway now? Now that business actually encounters tougher times, you choose to make these changes that most likely get a big negative outcome. I don't understand the reasons why the government is moving. And I don't understand how you've thought that this should only lead to consequences, and that this is taking the richest. This is not to take the richest. This is an attack on business, which, especially in the situation we're in now, is most likely to get a big, unfortunate outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1550	Last week, one of the political spokesmen of the Progress Party went out and said that they are not ‘decent’. The wording of the suspension gives the impression that immediate action that we are dealing with today is changing from inheritance in 2008 in the event of death. That's wrong. The strategy does not apply to the inheritance of deaths in 2008, which has also been responded to by the Ministry of Finance by the minority. It's only gifts covered, gifts from people who will try to take money out of a fairer tax. Have not the representatives of the Progress Party understood the proposal, or do they deliberately misunderstand it with the intention of blackmailing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1557	As the representative of Klungland is well-known, we started dealing with this matter on Wednesday. Then a progress plan was presented, so you added up to a race where the comments were to be submitted on Friday, and you were to give the adjustment on Monday. We chose to ask some questions. We obviously got some clarifications, but this shows, without me going into details here, just some of the problem with this matter. When you hurry through this, there is a good deal of uncertainty that we have tried to figure out, which we have asked some questions about, but which has been impossible to follow up on, since you want to have such a quick handling of this matter. What is our main focus, as also trade unions and others have pointed out, is how this is now affecting the business of this inheritance tax package that the Government is offering, and it should also worry the representative of Klungland. Although he probably didn't intend to re-elect the Storting, he should actually be concerned about businesses in his own county, how to deal with them with the adjustments that the Government is now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1564	The inheritance fee will be discussed in full at a later stage. I want to ask Ulf Leirstein a simple question, and that is: if you are going to increase the taxes on the richest people in this country, as we put up through this proposal, does the representative Ulf Leirstein understand that it is necessary to prevent these same people from adapting to the new inheritance tax system, or does Ulf Leirstein not realize that it is important to make sure that they do not adapt to this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1571	Then it's strange, if you're actually so concerned with this as the position says, that already this summer you could read fragments and leaks that there were now reliefs for most people in the inheritance tax, but that someone was to be taken. We could read about this in the newspapers this summer. So those who wanted to make adjustments, of course, have already done it. I understand, of course, that a government that is concerned with increasing taxes – not just for the richest, because that's not what you do here, you also hit a good number of companies that absolutely cannot be said to be the richest in society, but which facilitates jobs – want to take action to prevent adaptation, but why do you have to break even the Rules of Procedure of the Storting and get a decision in the Storting that you should not follow the Rules of Procedure? I can't believe you're so in a hurry. This has now been known for a few days. The richest often have so good access to both lawyers and others who help themselves, that those who are really concerned about making adjustments, probably already have. So that train has probably gone for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1578	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1581	Just a few comments on the formalities. I have soon been in the Finance Committee of the Grand Duchy for two periods, and there have been many situations where there may have been a need for shortcuts, not least in the previous period, where we had a minority government, where the time was often short, and where the then opposition deservedly often pointed out that things had to be done in a proper way and with proper proceedings. Therefore, I am somewhat disappointed that the committee leader could not find one single little thing to put his finger on in the treatment that has now taken place. It is not quite right, as he says, that we say that this is a reversal of the normal assessment in relation to the Basic Law § 97. What is stated in this note is that the current year’s tax decisions – to which people largely relate – are being changed. That's how this should be read, and it's relatively easy to read it that way. It's very rare to make changes to this. This is also evident from the letter from the Ministry of Justice, which, moreover, did not come with the initial proceedings for a very short period of time. But now leave it. That's what's special about this case, and then this is going to be in this room and in these committees that are on the Stortinget, where we talk so much about predictability for business, very little predictable. There has been our statement on this matter. Then we also have views on the inheritance fee. Everybody's got it right here. But the important thing for us has been to ensure that the Storting so far – the Presidency has looked at it – but, in particular, the Finance Committee, the main committee of the house, has a process that allows you to get to grips with all aspects of a proposal, not least how those affected by this look at it yourself. Everyone will see that this was very, very short time. I have to say that I feel that from our point of view we have not been able to handle this properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1595	In the Innst comments. S. No 5 is the representatives from the Right with the rest of the minority. They write that ‘The matter is formally a matter of retrospective effects of a previous decision on the charging of charges for the current year’. This is not correct. The proposal does not entail a retrospective decision but shall take effect from the date of the day and from the end of the year. Just because the decision is not to be retroactive and is contrary to the Constitution, it is important that a speedy decision be taken which may be effective in the future. Does the representative Pleatten believe that the Stortinget should not be able to take a decision to amend previous decisions when the Stortinget so wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1607	I believe that both the representative Marianne Aasen and the chairman of the committee, Mr Reidar Sandal, should read all of this in conjunction. We clearly say in this note that one cannot carry out such a tightening "before after the date of a change decision". That's exactly what the government itself says. We say this because the tax decisions for each year are something that is done the year before. This has been done on 28 November 2007. People are dealing with this. That's what's our point in this case. When making such changes as are so rare that it is not even possible to trace examples of this, it is important that the Committee be given a good time to examine the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1614	I am a little surprised that the representative fleet in the name of the public information cannot be clearly distinguished when it comes to taxation of income and wealth versus inheritance tax. I made this difference clearly in my post as the rapporteur-in-Office. I then pointed out that a tax decision relating to the inheritance fee is a decision that applies from the time it occurred. An inheritance tax is not something that goes on in the calendar year, it is a fee that is offset against the rules that apply at the time it happens. Why the Storting cannot change the rules on inheritance tax based on different assessments is a central question that the Right should be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1624	They can. We take – as I have now said to the representative of Aasen, to the representative Sandal and now to the representative of Lundteigen – as a starting point for this change, and we say that we should have a more sound procedure, precisely because we intend to make this kind of change, which is unpredictable for the business that not least the representative Lundtegen has very often been an avid champion. I think I would say that if there is someone who should feel a special obligation to provide public information in tax matters, it is absolutely the sitting government and the parties who are sitting there, who should explain why they are trying to increase taxes on every occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1631	There has been a lot of progress, but I have a question to ask after reading the setting, which means that this is a decision to recover. That's the weirdest thing I've ever seen. What we're doing is saying that we're changing the tax code from now on, we're converting a previous decision, but it has no back-up. If someone transfers their values, if any of those that have large values, and that would benefit from implementing tax adjustments, is going to be 100 million. In the morning, after this decision to grow up, to their children, it is not due to relapse. There has been a change in the current rules. Does the representative from the Right not understand that retroactivity is a matter of the past, not of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1640	Well, I've clearly understood what you're doing. What has been our question in this matter is: Do others perceive what you are doing? Does the environment understand what you're doing? Does Norwegian business understand what you're doing? Have they been given any opportunity to make recordings of this urgent decision? It's been right-wing. As far as I know, it has also been the challenge of the opposition. Why then make this almost a discussion about vocabulary and language, when it is quite clear in the setting what we mean? People deal with a tax decision from one year to the next, from the harvest before. The Department of Justice may not refer to similar cases. Is it alarming, then, that the opposition points this out? No, that's the opposite that would be alarming, that we didn't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1649	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1652	The treatment of this matter shows the true face of the right. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party are pure parties of interest to the richest people in this country. Just as wealth is unevenly distributed, inheritance is unevenly distributed. We have had an inheritance tax where ordinary people pay the bulk of the inheritance they receive, while the wealthiest through dirt holes in the inheritance tax system themselves have been able to determine how much inheritance tax they are going to pay. Because we have had this unfair inheritance tax, the differences – which have built up over the years with the right-hand mindset about uneven distribution and opening for it – have been reinforced. The description of the future of the Statistical Centre clearly shows that inheritance is one of the factors that will be an even stronger influence and will be a driving force for uneven distribution in the coming years. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that we make changes to the inheritance fee, as we have announced. We announced it in last year's state budget. We have been informed that we were going to implement changes. The changes in the inheritance fee were fully investigated by the Zimmer Committee. There, the business community had a good opportunity to make recordings, so we had all the recordings that are necessary when we make these changes. In addition, we're going to carry out a hearing in the usual way that gives business the space that is necessary to make representations to us. But there's one thing that's important in this case, and that's that 90 pst. the population of the country will pay less inheritance tax. It's actually even more than that, for 90 pst. of those who pay the inheritance tax today will receive less inheritance tax in the years to come. I'd rather say: at least 90 pst. This has been financed by increased taxes on wealth for the richest and increased inheritance tax for the richest. So the whole problem and the reason why we're here today is that we have between 5 and 10 pst. that will have to pay more in inheritance tax when they inherit, once dies. And the question is, are we going to allow the five to ten percent to carry out the generational shift over time from today until New Year in order to avoid paying the inheritance tax that we believe is fair and reasonable for them to pay? Are they going to be allowed to move on to the old system, which has been untouched over the four years when the last government crashed? Should we open it up? From my side, the answer is perfectly clear. On the part of all three government parties, the answer is clear: of course we should not! But there's going to be the opposition to the totally opposite position. They want to give room for all, the richest of all in this country, to get away from the tax cuts of the inheritance tax that we want to get. So the question is, is this completely new? Is this something they can kind of say that yes, yes, but this is something we're just doing this time? Or is this something they've done before? The answer to that is perfectly clear. They've done this before. When the parties to the right, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – and the Advance Party – took over the government offices in 2001, they carried out a removal of the tax on dividends. It meant that over the next four years, the richest people in this country would charge about NOK 200 billion, which they would pay over NOK 20 billion in taxes if the tax had been the same as before. This tax adjustment allowed them to happen, and then they said that in 2006 we would introduce tax on dividend dividends. And then they all asked the richest question: Will you pay a lot of taxes tomorrow, or will you pay nothing in taxes today? The richest answered – of course – that we will pay nothing in taxes today, and then they took out money from their limited companies for up to NOK 200 billion. Exactly the same is what the right-hand side wants to allow today. They want to say OK to the richest people; will you make the generation change next year and pay taxes, or will you make the generation change this year and pay nothing in taxes? And then, of course, the richest would say: we'd rather make the generation change this year and pay nothing in taxes. Of course they say that. But I therefore believe that it is well justified on the part of the government parties that we want to ensure that the wealthiest people here contribute to the community, and do not implement an opening of a huge tax hole in the inheritance tax, as the right-hand side puts up here today. Thus they show their true face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1667	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1670	I believe most of us have brought with us for a long time that the rhetoric of the representative Holmås is going on that the rich will be taken. It was said before the election too, so that you get in many ways the government that the voters have deployed through a choice. But can the representative Holmås with his hand on his heart be entirely aware that those who are now getting a tightening in the form of the grips you take on the inheritance fee, are only the richest? Is he absolutely sure that only the real rich in Norway are now affected? Or is there a slight possibility that there are some businesses out there that may not necessarily be perceived by most people who are so extremely rich, but who contribute to the creation of wealth, who contribute to jobs in District Norway, and who do a real job for this country by being established here and facilitating jobs and value creation, which is now being affected? Is he absolutely sure that now only the richest kingdoms are taken with the grips of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1675	What's clear is that it's not going to be one single enterprise in the whole country that gets a weakened profit as a result of the change we're discussing to implement from 1 January. But the thing is, the owners of these companies will have to pay to the community! When we implement these changes, we have long and favourable transitional arrangements with the possibility to pay the inheritance fee free of interest over a period of 12 years, we have great opportunities for those who inherit family holdings worth less than 10 million. kr – and I don't think most people have more than 10 million. Here you go. I think those that have more than 10 million. kr in inheritance, can actually pay more taxes than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1680	The representative, Holmås, has turned this debate into a debate on his favourite subject: How can we tax the richest harder? My question is about the inheritance tax, which applies in this case, in the general sense. When his own Finance Minister and Prime Minister are fighting to get the banking crisis under control, and it is reported that we have to expect a significant decline in Norwegian business in the years to come, what makes it so appropriate to increase the tax burden on Norwegian business owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1685	There the representative floated in masterfully at the end. Because what's the question is, what's with this tax that makes business get worse? The answer to that question knows the Fleet. It's nothing. Business will not get worse with this tax, but the owners will have to pay more to the community. So these are two very different things. When a company is transferred from one generation to the next, and the owners of equity assets, let's say 100 million. kr must be required to contribute more to the community through possibly a sale of parts of their shares, through the possibility of borrowing those shares, and through the possibility of collecting some of the dividends from their companies, I think that is quite right. The point is that there is not a single job that will be at risk as a result of the implementation of the tax conversion that we set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1690	There are purely election campaigns – both posts and lines – from the representative Holmås. This proposal, which we are really going to debate in full later, is part of the electoral campaign strategy. What surprises me when the representative Holmås mentions the consequences, is that it seems that he – and that is especially so in these days – overlooks the problems of having liquid funds in given situations when fees are to be paid. But it may not have sunk even with the events of the past few weeks in other sectors. My question, however, is, when the representative Holmås says on a principle that social inequalities are more and more happening as a result of the transfer of inheritance: why in the world has the government then submitted to a scheme that ensures that 90 pst. do you have to pay less inheritance tax, if you actually believe that those who receive inheritance at all contribute to a social distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1700	Now I'm a little bit curious about at least two points. I'm very excited if the Christian People's Party is going to propose an increased inheritance fee for those to whom we now want to give reduced inheritance fee. What we've done is we're doing a total tax conversion of inheritance and wealth taxes, where we make sure that those with the highest wealth pay more, and then we're implementing a tax return for people who inherit more normal amounts. But then we also do what we think is absolutely necessary – and which is the biggest weakness of the inheritance tax system – namely to close the tax gap that was introduced earlier, to have 70 pst. a share discount on unlisted shares. The question is, who owns the unlisted shares? That's the 5-10 pst. The richest in this country. Then there's one thing that I think the Christian People's Party must take up with itself. The Christian People's Party is making it appear that this proposal is something we are promoting for an electoral campaign strategic reason. If the representative has been debating with me over the last few years, he should know that I really believe that redistribution is good, it is not something we are doing on the basis of electoral strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1707	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1710	It's really good to have the floor, so I can continue the dialogue with Mr. Holmås. For no one, I think, is in doubt that what we are discussing here today – which we are not really doing, we are not discussing the matter itself – is that one should take the rich and make sure that ordinary people escape, become a mantra from this government and its representatives. I record with interest that when the representative Holmås is in principle defending it, it is not everyone who inherits it, which is the problem, but it is they who inherit a lot, although in his post he actually said that distribution through inheritance is perhaps the greatest challenge we have in the future. But of course, since the great majority have so much in this country that there will be a lot of inheritance, the government does not dare to pursue its principal position, because then you would take too many. Of course, then you choose the device you have now chosen – but that it is basically in relation to what Holmås said, it is not at all. So to the question whether this is feedback or not. Then I think we have to distinguish between the following: Is this contrary to the formal rules of the Constitution related to retroactivity? No, I don't think so. Absolutely not, although there are few examples of doing so. But then there are issues of real return, i.e. for people, businesses and those that relate to the tax decisions that are adopted in large numbers and in large amounts for a whole calendar year – 2008 in this case. It is clear that there is a backlash for those who have believed and expected to make decisions for the whole calendar year – which one actually tends to do in this house – and do not come with tightening at the end of the year. I understand, of course, that the government has put in 2009 that you need to do what you do, to achieve what you actually want. But it cannot defend the fact that there is some sort of proper procedure to be skipped, whether it is in committee or at large. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not take a position here and now on the realities of the proposal and the proposal for 2009 regarding inheritance tax. I'll ask the representative Holmås to wait with the envy argument until at least we're done with the decisions here in Stortinget, and by telling what the Christian People's Party means and does not mean. In fact, we intend to hear what those affected by this proposal think about it, what its effects are, and what its consequences are. Then we're going to have a real debate. Then I hope that the representative Holmås and others, until then, can wait to assume what the Christian People's Party or others mean. We have not taken a decision on the facts in the Government's proposal, but we are now distancing ourselves from that way of dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1722	The reason for this government proposal is to prevent the tax adaptation of inheritances and gifts towards the turn of the year. We have heard here today that the minority, both in the vote and in the debate, has expressed itself very critically. Right-wing representative Svein Flötten said in an interview with Today's Business on this topic something like that tax adjustment is not our problem. So my questions to the Christian People's Party and the representative Hans Olav Syversen are: Does he agree with this statement that tax adjustment is not a problem that the opposition or individual parties in the opposition should take seriously? Is it possible for tax adaptations where those who can afford to obtain the most sharp tax lawyers have a clear advantage over others, less mediated people in this society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1729	I would like to believe that those who have the most scrupulous lawyers, have probably been advised before the state budget was presented, to make sure to adapt to possible changes in the inheritance tax regime that we have, based on the signals that have come from the representatives of the government parties at different times earlier this year. So it's enough of those who are the most mediated, who have provided, even this time, "to get away from it," to use a term that I've heard the government parties have used. Tax adaptation should be sought to avoid, but to avoid it then to the degrees that the Storting should jump over good practice – there is actually a limit to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1736	I would like to ask the representative of the Syversen to stick too well to two things in the debate that we are going to have in addition to the harvest of inheritance fees. One is what is said about jumping over proper procedures. All elements that are not of an intrusive nature, i.e. all possible reliefs that are possible to provide proper treatment for people, can be adopted at a later stage after hearings and through regular treatment. The second point is the question of envy. It was mentioned that our rhetoric was about envy. You know what? I think the representative Syversen should stick too well to that. We have had an inheritance tax system that has been such that ordinary people who inherit a house and a cabin of their parents when they die have to pay a high percentage of the inheritance they get, while the very richest who inherit hundreds of millions pay small percentages. This isn't about envy, it's about justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1743	I think it's interesting to think of a procedure where you're going to rush through a decision. Okay, I can go good because you have the best intentions. However, we are asked for a procedure that jumps over the formalities in Stortinget. You jump over the possibility of the opposition having to get the possible consequences of the decision you're making, and then you have nerves to say, "Well, well, then we'll fix the mistakes afterwards. To be honest, I think it must be possible to gain some understanding from the opposition in order for some people to request a procedure that is in line with the rules they themselves have agreed to adopt in due course. When it comes to envy, it's more likely that the whole rhetoric is about the distribution of goods in society. Then you talk about the fact that in principle you should have inheritance tax because it ensures a better distribution, and then you exempt 90 pst. That's because I don't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1750	It's used here as "taking away from the rich". When we go into reality, which is not a topic here today, I think it's an expression that gives quite wrong associations in relation to the dimensioning, the suggestions that we're going to discuss later. It's a fairly sober use of the principle of ability that we're talking about. I have to say it's been run by the Christian People's Party here, it's a little surprising to me, when the representative says at the same time that he has not taken a stand on the realities. Because in reality, I believe that the Christian People's Party will support much of what is adopted, because it means a severe reduction in the inheritance fee. What's now the main focus is on those who inherit more than 10 million. kr. However, the reason I took a reply was due process. What is it that has not emerged in the treatment of the Christian People's Party, so that wishes would have been discussed more closely at this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1759	With regard to the so-called driving from the Christian People's Party, I should like to ask the representative Lundtegen to roll back a little and assume that the representative Holmås is shooting up the Christian People's Party's position on the matter and then argue against our position. That's what he started his article with. Then I reserve the right to say that we have not actually taken a decision on the proposal. We're going to spend the time until final decisions here in Stortingen to bring in consultation material, look at the effects and consequences, and then we're going to help make a final decision. I am not going to advance that in this matter. There is nothing in the comments in the committee setting either. As far as the other representative from Lundtegen is concerned, I insist that we would like to have more time to assess possible consequences. I also understood that the representative Lundtigen wanted to look at it, since he was open to coming back with corrections of the decision we are about to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1770	It is so that when the Storting leaves the hall today after voting, the framework conditions of generation change in very many companies will be changed to worse. It's a reality that you can't push away, saying we're not dealing with reality. Then one can choose to believe in these small suggestions made by the rapporteur, that there may be arguments during the course of the procedure during the autumn that may change the position. I don't think so. I don't have any experience to suggest that reasonable arguments are going to work on that treatment. In that case, it will be a joyous surprise. I have heard the representative Lundteg earlier suggest that there may be changes here. It's effectively blown down by the majority he's part of when it comes to reality. So I don't believe it. But I think the debate we have here now is going to be the beginning of a debate we're going to have a lot of this autumn, which is what kind of ownership we're going to have of Norwegian companies and Norwegian means of production in this country in the future. It's going to be about whether we're still going to talk well about and facilitate, clapping the families on the shoulder that take on and stand for stable ownership through generations, in good times and in bad times, that regulate the lifeline in bad times, and that thus takes care of the stable, good ownership as it is. Yes, in many ways this is a declaration of love to family-owned companies that have in a way been the mild, good Norwegian form of capitalism, and when it has blown and replaced and been the turbulence of all other places, much of this stable, good ownership has always stood there, simply because the owners very often work and participate in the same everyday life as their employees, going out and in from the same kindergarten gates as their employees, going out and in from the same parents' meetings at school and knowing that they have a goal of operating their business in their community that is something other than very much of the other distant ownership. That is why, in the opinion of the Left, and fortunately, the view of an overall opposition – as I understand it – is that this form of long-term, good, stable, private Norwegian ownership is something we want more of. That's what we want to stimulate. We want to give it a clapping on the shoulder and say: keep it going, and don't give the opposite signal of the bulk of the population, of which the center part is part, is going to give today. Yes, this is a good deal about ideology. I understand that the representative Heikki Holmås turns to the great heights of the rich and everything, because he is the capital's socialist leader and sees enough of other forms of ownership – perhaps not even private, Norwegian ownership, maybe not even capitalism with soul. So this is about ideology, and it's a debate we're going to see a lot of future. I am very pleased – I am not happy with this decision that is being taken, but I am glad that we are so clearly getting up some ideological and principal dividing lines in Norwegian policy. It's going to be about that, and I think it might plague the Center Party, which is close to the middle of Norwegian politics. So it's like there should be a generation change in many companies in the future. It has slowed down a very need for ownership change in family businesses. It's not just a Norwegian phenomenon, we see it occupying European countries around us. The EU adopts both recommendations and proposals for instruments to facilitate and facilitate flexible changes of ownership in family businesses, which will enable the next generation to continue to own. Other countries are looking for positive instruments to further maintain family ownership and facilitate generational shifts. The Norwegian Red-Green Government is doing the opposite. I am very sorry about that. Although we may have heard from the presentation of the State budget that we had not really thought about difficult times when we presented this state budget – at least not enough at the difficult times we can face – it is that, hopefully, when we have cleared up what could have been an emerging banking crisis and financial crisis, we will probably go into generally demanding economic times for Norwegian businesses. Prices of their products fall. There are fewer jobs and revenue falls at the same time as they bring with them a record high cost level that we have established in recent years in the world's most expensive country. This means that many companies can get huge problems. Then it's important to have a kind of ownership that's intended to stand through bad times, as family-run businesses have traditionally done, and not give the opposite signal that it's really not wanted as ownership. I will not spend much time in the proceedings except to say that Stortinget had deserved to produce the documentation, the good stories, the stories of what many are facing out there who had planned to change the generation in trust that the Stortinget will make inheritance tax decisions once a year. That story could have been told and made known to the Storting. We didn't get a chance to do that. But we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1791	In much of the comments from the minority, the criticism of the process goes, that's what's a lot of the essence. The representative of Sponheim, together with the rest of the minority, also criticises the majority for the lack of caution and for the inclusion of a purely summary approach to the proposal. And then my question is -- because I see the representative Sponheim as a sensible man: in the choice between preventing massive adaptation from the most mediated in this country or having a long process, would he choose a long process if he himself was in government? And can he guarantee that he himself won't ever have matters dealt with quickly in Stortingen to prevent unwanted effects, for example. If he were to be in government at a later date?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1798	Let me say it this way: it doesn't come as a surprise to anyone out there that this government has easy to find the means to take possession of larger shareholdings, corporations and family businesses. Those who sit on some more speculative shares, those who had intended to pass these on to the next generation, have received so many signals – so many red-green bars have been blown in the last year of this field – that they have certainly adapted. It is the planned generational shifts — which take many years to be implemented — in enterprises that have been owned by the family for generations, and where one had confidence that a decision taken to raise a calendar year would be valid for a calendar year that is affected. Others have made long-standing adjustments — otherwise they should not be owners of such companies. It is the planned generational shifts in family farms that are now being affected, which should have been completed before Christmas this year, and which will thus be stopped by this decision today. It's a shame, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1805	I have some difficulty seeing that the representative Sponheim is quite able to find out which leg he is going to be on. On the one hand, he says that we have given too much information to people, so that too many have adapted. On the other hand, he complains that too few people have the opportunity to adapt. But I think that Sponheim should have praise for one thing, and that is that he very clearly says what he believes in this matter. This is not about the proceedings, the proceedings, etc. This is, basically, about Lars Sponheim and Left being opponents of the transformation that we are now implementing. There's no other way to understand what Lars Sponheim said here. I'm looking forward to whether Sponheim and the left over the fall are going to try to do something else, because now you push the small businesses in front of you, and then you say: Small businesses have to suffer. I believe we have found a balanced arrangement for small businesses. The problem lies in the large value transfers that lie there, and I am happy to see if Lars Sponheim has planned to do something to make sure that the people who are actually the richest are going to contribute something through inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1814	I myself have made proposals for consideration in this Chamber on the relief of inheritance fees for what is now happening through this proposal, which is about inheriting family cabins, etc. I think that's good. I am not going to reverse the reliefs from the inheritance tax that are given here. It is primarily the tightening of the levy to inherit nutritional values that go for generations, the left is against, and which I speak so strongly against. And then you could say there's roughly two ratios. It's owning shareholdings – the family may not have a personal relationship with it, but they'd like to let it pass on. These, I think, have adapted far on the way. We have enough examples of how this is already happening to the children of the people of Norway who are involved and to the company. But these are the companies where everything is in an enterprise and have done it for generations – and where we know it takes many years to plan a generation change – that are affected when we suddenly get an urgent decision today instead of the ordinary calendar decisions that are made in the case of inheritance tax. That is why the Ministry of Finance also says in its reply that there are no proceeds to talk about in the decision that is being taken now, because it is not the many. But it's completely unreasonable to the few people who had planned this generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1821	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1824	It is quite right, as the representative Sponheim says, that Norwegian business is made up of many small businesses, often family businesses, often located in the districts. They have been among those who have been on the government's agenda for the last few days, for it was precisely those who were now out and had major problems because the financial market, the capital market, did not work. All of the messages we received about it have made sure that we put ourselves in the harness to find a solution that would ensure that they could continue their production. So the government is fully aware of what the Norwegian business life looks like. We are very concerned that it should work. There are many elements in the government budget for the next year that just meet the needs of the business community, for example: in the case of investment in transport, both roads in the districts, for which the business community has been very busy, and in the case of rail, for example. the question of goods to the runway. These are depreciation rates for technical installations which have been very well received. These are all the initiatives in the construction sector, which are also important tasks for business around the whole country. So the understanding of what Norway looks like, we end up with. So there's a question of what this proposal that's now under consideration is. In my view and that of the Government, the opposite is true of what many have spoken about in the debate. It is in order to give the Stortinget the opportunity to make a decision and a change in terms of the inheritance fee – which has the effect we describe in the documents from the Government – that we have submitted a proposal that needs to be dealt with in the Stortinget quickly. I don't interfere with the 48-hour rule, it's the matter of Storting, but it's the background of the proposition that's being promoted. For, for example, if this decision had not been taken now, with effect for 2008 and from the current date, it did not have: The Christian People's Party had some opportunity to participate in a decision that had had the effect proposed by the Government's decision to the Stortinget. The impact of this Decision involves several elements. Firstly, it is important in relation to the legitimacy and understanding of why inheritance tax is paid, that the tax-by-capacity principle also applies to inheritance tax. It hasn't. Everyone has seen that those who have the most resources have been able to adapt around the entire inheritance fee. This means a great deal of relief in the inheritance tax, approx. 30 pst. reduction of the country’s income from the inheritance tax. And then it means a reduction in the rates and a relief for 90-95 pst. by those who receive inheritance, among them many small enterprises. Because although there may not be any real reason why some small businesses are affected by this proposal, it has been the Government's desire to meet them, by still retaining a discount on unlisted shares of 40 p.m., up to 10 million. NOK for each heir, and by creating a scheme that allows you to pay the inheritance fee of 12 years, not in seven years as before, which was also a very little used scheme. With these adaptations we believe, even though there are allocation arguments against them to this extent, that we have taken into account that this should be possible to adapt reasonably well. I believe that the Norwegian welfare model is better equipped for times of crisis than many other countries' welfare models, because we have less differences between people in Norway than they do in many other countries. There is no doubt that some countries have been delayed in their crisis management, because most people had not accepted that governments should deal with crisis packages to the banks when they themselves were left on their own without a safety net. Therefore, I believe that the tax-by-capacity principle and the fact that one has a society where one takes care of one another create a much greater acceptance that one must enter in the meantime – not in such a way that there are no subsidies in it; in the proposal that the Government is promoting on Friday to get the financial markets to move away, there are no subsidy elements. But in any case, the understanding of taking action that has a major impact on business and banking will be much greater in a population with small differences between people than the opposite. That is why this is a very good investment for business in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1837	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1840	The setting reads as follows: «The Government assumes that under the Basic Law, Section 75(a), the Parliament’s decision in plenary shall be entitled to derogate from the provisions on taxes and charges laid down in the Inheritance Tax Act. This also applies to intrusive deviations.’;» I record that it says ‘restor’. That means that there are some doubts or at least possibilities for doubt. Then my question is, how will the government deal with this further? How will the Government investigate this further? Does the government now believe that this is a closed chapter, and that it is up to business owners, businesses and others to protest against this, do anything about this? Is this a closed chapter of the Government? And does the Minister of Finance think that we can actually cancel the hearings that the Financial Committee should have on the inheritance fee and the scarfs there, because what is the point of the hearings when we are already adopting this? Because it seems like the government has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1850	My understanding of how to base and the representative Tybring-Gjedde's understanding of how to base is completely different. My understanding of basing is that that's what's the starting point. But my understanding of the whole proposal is that if Stortinget is to have the opportunity to adopt for 2009 a proposal for inheritance tax that is a significant relief and as 90-95 pst. will benefit, but which is also a redistribution in order to safeguard the tax-on-capacity principle, it has to be done in this way. If not, the Storting didn't have any choice, because they with the most resources would have adapted around, and it wouldn't have mattered. What the Biggest thing now, of course, will do, has to do and will do, is make sure that there are ordinary hearings in these kinds of cases. There can be no tightening up beyond this, i.e. tightening up in relation to what the Government has proposed. But if there was to be agreement on relaxations, it is possible according to the provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1860	The Minister of Finance says that she is fully aware of what Norwegian businesses look like in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. I understand that she has become particularly aware of it during the last days of working to make this business work again in the light of the banking crisis. The Minister of Finance's party trap Heikki Holmås said in a reply not so long ago here as a general statement that increased taxation of the owners of this business as the Minister of Finance has now seen, the small and medium-sized enterprises, has no bearing on how business is going. Does the Minister of Finance agree with this, in particular in view of the periods of recession we are indisputably facing, with lower incomes, reduced profits, and with the risk of taking money out of companies in order to pay an increase in inheritance tax/ wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1867	Now it is probably not the last days of events that have done someone with a long seagoing pace in Norwegian politics aware of what Norwegian business looks like. A very important part of the work being done in the Ministry of Finance is, after all, about the kind of framework conditions for Norwegian business, whether it concerns customs, taxes, insurance, pensions or whatever it may be. So these are everyday issues for us. Then I have to say that I react to what kind of descriptions the opposition gives of the situation for Norwegian business. Now it's clearly turbulent times, and you have to be prepared that there's going to be uncertainty in the future. But if we look back, we have had four incredibly good years for Norwegian business, which has meant that both retained earnings and total equity have increased significantly. So the muscles of business to both withstand a period of decline and to participate in a fairer distribution are very solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1874	Just to take it as possible is a misunderstanding: it is not that the Christian People's Party has wanted to wait for the decision that we may now have to make, for the ordinary treatment of the Storting, but we wanted to wait for it, for example. it was possible for the Financial Committee to have a brief consultation in order to allow itself to be involved in the consequences. Then I hope that's said once and for all. What I think is a little interesting when I listen to the Minister of Finance, and also in relation to what Holmås said earlier, is: What is the view of the inheritance tax in the Government and of the Minister of Finance? Is it true that inheritance tax is deemed necessary for distributional reasons, or is it such that inheritance tax is necessary only to ensure that those who have the most pay more to the community? What's the principal idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1881	If you are going to have an effective distribution policy, you have to assume how capital – both wealth, inheritance and capital income – is distributed, because that is where you find the great differences between those who are really rich in Norway and the vast majority. If we, for example, Look at shares in unlisted companies, there are 90 pst. Of them, they're among the 10 pst. in Norway. Therefore, both wealth and inheritance are important to tax in the context of distribution. It is not that you are either in favour of inheritance tax or you are against it. But we're in favour of a fair inheritance tax based on the tax-by-capacity principle. And what has been the problem now is that in this inheritance tax there has been a hole. It was about the valuation of unlisted shares. As a result, those who really have great values have not paid an inheritance tax, while ordinary people who inherit ordinary huts and houses are the ones who have paid an inheritance tax. And that's what we're fixing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1888	What businesses are we talking about that will get over this 10 million? the kr limit and be subject to a significantly higher inheritance tax? Yeah, we've started getting some examples. Typical examples can be a well-run pensioner, a community hotel, a fish processing plant, which we have heard very clearly about, or a small machine contractor, which I recently heard about, with father and son and a handful of other workers, with expensive machines, where father had planned a generation change and now assesses whether it is at all possible for his son to take over ownership. I don't think this makes everyone want to end with a generation change; many will pay this VAT from the red-green government, tighten the lifeline, use the payoff time and take a little extra dividends and thus get less equity in the company. But many will choose to sell to strangers in an open market, perhaps enter into large mergers and larger companies. Is the Minister of Finance aware that there will be less generation-based ownership of Norwegian companies after this decision that is now being taken, and what ownership does she really want – if she agrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1895	In my opinion, the representative Sponheim exaggerates the importance of this proposal in relation to the structure of Norwegian business. It's because we've opened up significant business-friendly ways of adapting, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is that each beneficiary of the inheritance tax can receive 10 million. NOK 40 pst. Discount. So if you have more children, and there are more children who inherit, it is a good thing that benefits all the heirs. So we've expanded this limit from seven to twelve years. It's very little used per. today because it came as an adaptation earlier. We probably think that more people might be able to take advantage of it. And of course, we've done a lot of examples. We will probably come back to this when the Stortinget is going to deal with the proposal for 2009, and I expect that through that treatment you will find a basis that will reassure many of those who are now anxious about how to implement a generation change in their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1900	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up, but the President will propose that we take the vote before the meeting is cancelled. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e1912	The size is then ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e2108	In Case No: 4–7 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e2152	President! I voted wrong. I voted against, but should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e2158	The result shall be a 60-to-48-vote vote in favour of the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-14.ana.ud1869e2311	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require the word under Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
