ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e55	The representative, Mr Harald T. Nesvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e58	I have the pleasure on behalf of Per Egil Evensen, Jan Henrik Fredriksen and myself to propose the introduction of an annual hospital proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e77	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e86	The talk of Biggest Things, about the University Museums, is well received in the professional environments and well received in the Biggest Committee. That's the short summary of the setting. Then it is that the two crucial factors that the notification addresses, and which the Committee also stresses, are that the university museums have a clear social responsibility and that they are crucial in an important general perspective. The building and storage conditions at the museums are one of several important areas to be addressed, and this is, in the Committee's view, the most critical in the current situation of the university museums. It's this one collective committee says about the purpose of the museums, and about what's the most critical of the museum's functions. The Committee is also gathered on the importance of museums to ensure society's need for knowledge of our nature and cultural heritage. Then we go into some concrete museums, to which I come back. Among other things, we have referred to the work being done with a university museum in Stavanger. I have nothing to add there besides what is in the setting. It is also the case that the Committee considers that it is appropriate to stress what is stated in the Communication, that the university museums need to develop a good relationship and, more generally, a closer relationship with universities in the field of research and development. The growing house on Tøenen is e.g. an impressive gene bank. It's not only an archive of living plants and other relationships that have to do with nature and life in nature, but also a large gene bank, a large archive. There's something that meets the needs of the audience. There is something that meets the needs of young people, so that they can meet different parts of society with curiosity. As far as the various museums are concerned, they must be presented in a good way not only internally but also externally. In this context, you would like to talk about the museum's basic exhibitions. I myself have been on a button inspection with someone else in the committee, among others. at the Cultural History Museum here in Oslo, and it is clear that it is crowded there. It's crowded where it's to be shown, and the place is used with great imagination -- you have to give it to those who do the job. It is also clear that when you see what is stored in the basement, there is a lot that could have been shown that is not shown. When you also know the magazine situation at the same time, you underline the comments made by the Committee in its unanimous position. With regard to these basic exhibitions at the museums, which are thus a living presentation of their basic tasks, a minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, say that we believe that the costs associated with the renewal of the exhibitions should not only be charged to the internal funding system, but that the museums here must receive a share of fresh funds for this purpose. Then it is that in our time of digitalisation we also support further work on the plans of a national digital university museum, and we support the idea that a sample will be set up to look at this further. There has been a considerable debate about the university museums on how to organise and manage them. The Ministry has chosen to join the minority in an investigation group on this matter and wants the museums to remain part of the university system. The Committee agrees wholeheartedly and unanimously. It's almost impossible to imagine -- after traveling around the world -- that one might, for example. had to remove libraries and museums from a university. The phenomenon is then somewhat ludicrous, both professionally and in the sense that each subject should have its own specific character, and not least from the perspective of generalisation which is also underlined in the communication and to which the Committee subscribes. In the case of the building mass, it is critical. Here it is that a minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are promoting a proposal, which I am addressing just for the sake of order, asking you to come back with a systematic plan to look at the need for the critical thing to be resolved. It's important that this is lifted up, and as a minority and opposition representatives, we have found reason to promote it. Then there's a special mention in the setting from the committee of two of the major museums. One is the Cultural History Museum at Tullinløkka. Here, a minority in the Committee, representatives of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, say that we want the state to move forward with the plans to secure the site of this museum in Bjørvika, as it has been planned in the past. I just want to say this on behalf of these three parties in the context I'm presenting it. The Progress Party has its own comments on this point, which they themselves will present. Then the committee agrees wholeheartedly and positively with the plans to set up a greenhouse. We know that there are private people who want to give something. The minority in the Committee, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, make a strong call to the authorities to strike, so that we can get the greenhouse to be a good scientific centre, a science centre, at the University's 200th anniversary in 2011. In doing so, I will address the proposal to which I have referred earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e116	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e119	First of all, I must thank the rapporteur for a good job. The representative Dørum and I also got the opportunity to visit several of the university museums in Oslo in the work on this message. It was instructive, but it also gave cause for concern for the situation of several of the museums. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Much, as the rapporteur also stated. It is also worth noting that the university museums are pleased with the message, and that it gives a reality they can recognize themselves in. The challenge for all of us will be to work for the means to follow up the measures proposed, not only in terms of building conditions, but also in terms of dissemination, digitisation and R & D activity. In this respect, I would like to mention that the Government has provided earmarked funds for collecting management and securing to remedy the building situation, and for Digforsk AS’ work on digitisation. This does not mean that there are some things that remain, and it also points to the message. Much remains to be done with regard to the digitisation of collections, on the building and warehouse sites, and with regard to research and development. The message points to many important actions that need to be taken. With regard to the further priorities of the Government of the economy for the follow-up of the measures, they will be seen in the annual discussions on the State budget. It is important to establish the social responsibility of the university museums, both in documenting and researching our cultural and natural heritage, and in communicating it to the general public and to children and young people in particular. It's an important work done in the museums to document our common heritage. Professional cooperation between museums and universities can continue to be strengthened. At the same time, it is important that the dissemination of results is done in a way that creates interest. The basic exhibitions must be relevant and up-to-date. As far as cooperation with the science centres is concerned, it is also important. I think it is right that there are stronger leads to cooperation with the school and the science centres, and that this is indicated as an incentive in the message. This does not mean, however, that there is an absolute requirement, as the Right and Advance Party claim in a note. Non-cooperation will not have budgetary implications, but cooperation will be a theme of the department's dialogue with universities and science centres. I assume that other representatives of the government parties and the state council will come back to more of the content of the message, so I want to mention a few specific things. First, I want to highlight the role of museums in the work on biodiversity, environment and climate information. Our natural history collections are based on a very comprehensive documentation of our diversity of species. They are a national and international source of knowledge on biodiversity. We aim to stop the loss of biodiversity in Norway by 2010, and the natural history museums are an important source of knowledge about this. In this context, I would also like to mention the work done by the Art Database, in cooperation with and as the recipient of competence and material from the university museums. This cooperation combines knowledge and environmental policies, which are crucial in our efforts to stop the loss of biodiversity and to take climate change seriously. The Committee is in agreement in its note on the Archaeological Museum in Stavanger as a new university museum. I am aware that in these days there is a formal process going on between the University of Stavanger and the Archaeological Museum, and that there is a consensus that this is what you want. After all, it runs counter to the fact that the Archaeological Museum is soon linked to the University of Stavanger and becomes a university museum. There will be a solution for which the Labour Party and the Government will be very pleased. Finally, I would like to point out a new greenhouse at the Natural History Museum. This is a very exciting project. As the representative of Dørum had in mind, there are promises of private donations, and so far there has been a pre-requisite that the building should be financed without additional appropriations from the State. If it requires additional appropriations, the project must be assessed in line with other construction projects, and we must then come back to this when we are going to examine the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e140	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur. The collections of the University Museums are extensive. They span a variety of disciplines, and they form an essential part of our cultural and natural history heritage. Of course, there is reason to take seriously the warning signals that have come from the National Audit Office that the collections are in many ways not stored in a good enough way, and the indications that the management of these museums is not good enough either. Through the selection, led by Professor Bjarne Rogan, we have an investigation that points to the University Museums' responsibilities and responsibilities as social institutions, their history, and not least the challenges facing university museums. There has been a theme in the Rogan Committee on the organisation of university museums, and a majority of them wanted a changed form of association where university museums were removed from universities. However, the government has stated that the university museums will continue to be organised as university entities, which the Committee agrees to. In this respect, it has been crucial for the Progress Party to look at the role of the museums in relation to the research and teaching part at universities, but we clearly see that this presents significant challenges in relation to the external part, external responsibility for dissemination, and not least the university museums' development opportunities. Today we take exclusively for ourselves the university museums, because these are the ones that sort under the church, education and research committee. However, it is important in this context that some action be taken, so that museums that sort under other departments are also included in the overall assessment that you have to make. Museums and construction have been put on the agenda for the last few days, and we have been presented for different plans here in the Oslo area. The Progress Party believes that we need to take seriously the serious signals about the need to upgrade the building mass at the university museums, not least because of the many irreplaceable values they house. It is also important to facilitate the participation of the public in our historical taxes. In our opinion, we have too many cultural memories that are currently only available to researchers and archivists. To this end, the Committee has been concerned about how the public should be able to participate more fully in this. In this connection, we have discussed both toilet facilities and coffee cups and perhaps something good for the children. Dissemination responsibility has been a main focus. What must be done to make the audience find it attractive to visit these museums? Here, we believe that much more needs to be done to identify what is needed to increase the number of visits. The Progress Party has also pointed out that the organisation of the sector should not prevent cultural memories from being displayed and made available to the public near the site. We believe that in some cases it may create a greater interest to see ancient finds and cultural memories in the regions where they are found or have their origins. Of course, a prerequisite for this is that it is professionally sound and that the items are secured in a safe manner. Modern collection management is largely made up of digitised information. Large amounts of data have been transferred from analogue to digital form, but it is important that a comprehensive strategy is also in place to make use of these large quantities of data and to facilitate the use of the material for dissemination, management and research purposes. The opposition parties point out that there is a need for fresh money to renew the basic exhibitions, and not least a stepping-up plan must be drawn up to ensure funding for the upgrading of the building and warehouse conditions at the university museums. The Committee has been consulted on the plans for the construction of a new greenhouse building. For those of us who have been inside today's greenhouse, there is no doubt about the need. If one realises the planned greenhouse, with its public and reading facilities, it will provide the area and opportunities for dissemination a significant boost. The Progress Party has noted that cooperation between science centres and university museums is being called for. Of course, it's a vision we share. In a way, the White Centres have their origins in the museums. Using interactive exhibitions, themed exhibitions, etc. knowledge centres can make a good contribution to the dissemination of knowledge to school students, teachers and others. The Communication points to formalising cooperation between university museums and science centres. For us, it is equally natural to look at the cooperation with other museums both locally and nationally. The Party is concerned that such cooperation must be initiated and based on common interests. The role of university museums in relation to research will also be essential. It is an important challenge to establish closer cooperation between university museums and other museums in order to develop the R & D of the museums. The University Museums play an essential role in gaining knowledge and insight and are important in both basic research and applied research and development. Just because these museums in this way differ somewhat from other university research, which is mainly advocating theoretical insight, it is essential that the speciality of the museums in this field is also well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e170	In the autumn of 2004, the Bondevik II government reduced a sample under the direction of Bjarne Rogan, who was to explore the role of university museums in national museum policy. Your setting is the basis of the big message we are currently processing. The university museums play a central role in research on cultural heritage and natural heritage, and the museums are important suppliers of knowledge in cultural memory and nature management. There is no doubt that both the university museums and all our other museums have a great need for new recruiting professionals. It is important that we work all the time to be in advance of the training of professional positions at these institutions. It is of the opinion of the right that it is important that the critical conservation conditions that have been identified are followed up and that the ministry reinforces the measures already in place to improve the situation. As the Rogan Committee underlines, clearer control signals and upgrading of building conditions are key measures in this context. The continuous inclusion of new objects in collections also entails a long-term responsibility for preserving, securing and making available. To this end, the right supports the proposal to develop joint plans at the university museums, which will be seen in the context of the university museums' priority areas for research, management and dissemination. It has been established that there is a lack of conservation competence in Norway. It is therefore positive that the Government will consider increasing educational capacity both to meet the needs of the university museums themselves and to contribute to better meeting the need for conservators in other areas of the museum sector. In this context, increased cooperation with other countries could also contribute positively to improving conservation competence. A major challenge for the university museums is too poor framework conditions, including: an excessive build-up mass and poor storage and storage conditions. The right considers that institutions, and thus the university museums, need to be provided with increased resources to improve the framework conditions, so that museums can have better opportunities to prioritise work on the renewal of basic exhibitions. The right-wing view is that it is initially very good that good cooperation is established between the science centres and the university museums on dissemination adapted to the curricula of the school and to the public. On the other hand, we do not support the proposal as it now appears to be, that such cooperation should be a prerequisite for financial allocation to the scientific centres. It is good that economic instruments are put in place to promote dissemination, but the Right believes this should not be done by imposition, but by voluntary cooperation based on common interests. Right supports the Department's recommendation that university museums continue to be organised as university entities. It is essential, as also pointed out in the sample, that governance and cooperation are improved. The proposed measures in the message have financial implications. It is therefore important that this is followed up in a systematic and predictable manner. There are many people who have criticised the message for being too low commitments. The right, together with the other opposition parties, proposes that the Government return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a financial escalation plan to strengthen the university museums, with particular emphasis on building and magazine conditions. There will be a clear signal that the Government is serious about the message. I am still hoping for an opportunity for the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal during our examination today. Finally, like the rapporteur, Mr Dørum, I would also like to draw up a point on which the opposition parties stand together. It's to make clear the new greenhouse built for the anniversary. I hope and believe that it will be possible. It can be seen that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were almost at the top when the position and the proposal that we stand together were written, namely that it is important to set aside sufficient plots in Bjørvika for the Cultural History Museum at the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e193	I would also like to be allowed to give the case spokesperson credit for facilitating the work and releasing the committee through it in such a way that today we have, in my opinion, a very good attitude to discussion in Stortinget. Of course, on behalf of SV, I am pleased that the Government is getting in touch with what is a good message, which has been well received around the sector. In the follow-up to the museum reform, there is a lot of exciting happening in Museums-Noreg for the time being. I am pleased that this sector has increased economic freedom to do development work, but it is clear that there is an incredible amount to be taken up here. In this large sector, we are already in a phase where we are forced to address what is going on in quality and organisational development. So let me quickly go over to what's today's text about the university museum and not include the whole sector. I thought the case-speaker was doing well for the social value of these institutions when it was up to them to collect, when it was up to research, when it was up to them to preserve, when it was up to exhibiting objects, and not least when it was up to them to give evidence of nature, culture and art-historical development. It's an incredibly important job. I am also pleased that the case-speaker drew out the foundational perspective that we can derive from this, because it is clear that this is the starting point for experiences. This is the starting point for learning. This is the starting point-- at least that could be it-- for recognizing who we are, and what context we're in. And then I want to bring out the kind of special task that the natural history museums have, and the different collections that we have, for example. the job done by the Art Database to collect knowledge of biological deficiency. What I mean is a third perspective when it relates to the important job being done in this sector. We have this case today because the Riksaudition not so many years ago did an investigation that was quite discouraging when it spelled out both the collection preservation, the security and the management of these institutions. SVs Ågot Valle was the case spokesman for the case when Stortinget discussed it. When the matter was dealt with, it turned out that of the state museums it was the university museum that came out very badly. She pointed out that it might be that they got a little confused between research and education. And that is well, as the sector itself says to us, the need for coordination and for clear governance. I am very pleased that the department is so well aware of the message when it comes to a wide range of measures, for example: the proposal to clarify, through a separate regulation, cooperation and division of labour between universities. I'm glad that the government gets in touch with a long line of proposals, which is the concrete follow-up to the proposals and discussions in the Rogan Committee. Many point to construction, and there is no doubt that this is a major challenge for these institutions. Many of the buildings are built at a very different time, and they are not prepared for what is a modern museum work. Research is another challenge, and I thought this was a good way to discuss the message. I also think it is very wise that one has intended to ask the Norwegian Research Council to develop a national R & D effort when it comes to the University Museum and Archaeological Museum in Stavanger. Making the collection available to the eel is a challenge for this sector as a whole. It's clear that, through new technology, we have an enormous potential to do just that, to make the collection and historical material available to everyone. It's also a challenge to make this attractive, so people actually want to see, experience and learn from the historical data that we actually have. I'm also convinced that technology is a lot of the answer, so here I'd like to draw out Digforsk, which we've seen of money for in this year's budget. It's an amazingly exciting move, where a company organized under the University of Oslo is still doing the registration work itself around the district of Norway. I thought it was a model for follow-up. I would like the state to choose that form of organization more often. The common feature of a lot of the challenges for the museum thinks I'm competent. I was in contact with my museum board at home, which itself is highly advanced and has moved home to my hometown. She says that the university environment is very important. When she was a student in Tromsø, they were a source of inspiration. They made it possible to involve students in the work, and this meant that she has been recruited to the sector today. That's what I thought I might be the one, the most important message we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e216	I join those who say that the rapporteur here has done a good job. He also gave us a good summary of the main points of the message. There's been a good setting, and there's a lot of consistency. In this respect, one might say that the Government has been given too much credit in this message, and that is good. I'll talk a little bit about the Riksrevision, because it often gives us some thinkers. So also in this context. Their 2003 study on conservation and security at the five state museums pointed out that many of the collections at the university museums were not kept under sufficiently good conditions and that the management of the university museums was not good enough. For this reason, a selection was set up under the direction of Professor Bjarne Rogan, who was to explore the role of university museums in national museum policy. We then got a NOU, Knowledge for the community, which made many concrete recommendations. It is good that the department now follows up with a big message, which we are dealing with today. The content of the message is not necessarily just a kosprat. By the way, it was supposed to be missing. «Tingene's speech» is a very descriptive title, and it's strange to say it, but I actually associated with «Tunge Tidal Speech», a poem by Halldi's Moren Vesaas. The content can in no way be compared, so it was probably the word game or the alliance that I was occupied with. At the same time, one can at least say that the message shows that we have a heavy responsibility for the best possible functioning of the university museums. As the Committee writes, the university museums have a high level of social responsibility, and there may be grounds for stressing that these museums are of crucial importance in terms of the general education perspective. The building and magazine conditions at the museums are one of several important areas mentioned in the message. As I see it, this area is the most critical in the current situation of the university museums. Warehouses shall be storage sites adapted to the needs of each item. Ideally, they should also have room for the reception of new objects, preservation and preservation. In addition, there should be room for research and education. That's how we know that there's not a lot of places. The storage areas are small and narrow, and sometimes even damp. Magazines must in many ways be navigable in the activities of museums, and they are essential for museums to be able to fulfil their social obligations. When I focus so much on this, it's because I know very well the challenges of the cultural memory message 'Living with cultural memories'. I was so lucky to be the case rapporteur when it was presented in the previous period, and the entire committee was then able to see how valuable historical items were being destroyed due to difficult storage conditions. So this is important to get something done in many areas. It's interesting to see the wide spectrum that the university museums span. The 'yellow boxes' in the message show artful examples - everything from 'E6 archaeology' to 'Norwegian Red List and Black List', if there are extremities. The first case concerns the extension of E6 in Eastfold. Several cultural memories that could conflict with the wide-ranging development of the road have been explored. The second heading concerns biodiversity. The red species are considered to be vulnerable groups in our country, blacklists are alien species in Norway that should not be here. We see that the museums take responsibility for the entire spectrum. The university museums are an important actor in telling our history. Dissemination is therefore an important area. There's a lot of ways to do it. It is very important to stimulate cooperation with the cultural school bag. Different exhibitions must be up-to-date and relevant. It was also mentioned here instead that a person would like to have coffee and something good for the kids - there is no bad way to do it. The communication is concrete in many areas and sets out clear measures. That's good. An overall committee believes that it is quite right when the department writes that the measures will have financial consequences and must be implemented in a balanced manner over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e244	I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their good work and for their good feedback. In the big message of things, the main theme is how we take care of history in order to learn, both the story we've put behind us, and the story as it's being created today. How to take care of, further develop and disseminate the documentation we have on the past and present is the main task of the university museums. There has been considerable agreement on the need to look at the situation of the university museums. I would particularly like to refer to the Riksrevision, which in a report to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2003 pointed out that many of the collections were not kept under sufficiently good conditions and that the management of the university museums was not good enough. The message states that research is a core task at the university museums. The museums play a central role in research on cultural and natural heritage and as a provider of knowledge for cultural memory and nature management. The University Museums and its other museums are in great need of new recruitment of professionals in the fields of research, management and dissemination. The Ministry will therefore ask the Norwegian Research Council to develop a national R & D effort aimed at the University Museums and Archaeological Museums in Stavanger. The initiative will strengthen the research activities of the museums, but will also stimulate cooperation with other national and international research environments and with other museums, to which several of the debaters have been involved. I want to link a special comment to the Archaeological Museum in Stavanger. There is now a process in the direction that this museum will become a university museum linked to the University of Stavanger. It's a development I think is absolutely right, and it's positive that the committee is also positive to it. The threat to biodiversity, for example: from man-made climate change is one of the areas where university museums can really make a difference. For how can we understand the effects of climate change on nature if we do not know the species present in the ecosystem? Natural history collections provide the most comprehensive documentation of diversity of species in Norwegian territory, and the four natural history museums occupy a total of 12 million objects and observations. Just about two million of these are digitized. The collections of the museums are digitised in a variety of databases, which do not communicate well with each other. There is therefore a need for joint solutions that allow the overall data of the university museums to be used for research purposes. What the museums do practically through what they choose to collect says better than anything else they want to convey. The growth of collections entails long-term responsibility for the preservation, securing, documentation and making available of the material. The Ministry of Knowledge will therefore provide guidance in the 2009 letters of allocation on the need to develop separate collection plans at each university museum which must be seen in the context of the museum’s priority areas of research, management and dissemination. The collections are constantly changing. There is a need for increased skills in taxonomy and conservation in order to manage both old and new materials in a professionally sound manner. Here's the big challenge. In this context, it is necessary to stimulate training capacity to meet the need for competence. Cultural historical knowledge is important for understanding society and the cultural meetings that take place both nationally and internationally. The Ministry sees the need for action to raise the status of dissemination tasks. For the museums, we want to introduce our own economic instruments to promote dissemination. Premiering for cooperation with the school will be a natural part of such a scheme. Horizontal exhibitions have contributed to increased public inflows and increased cooperation and have enhanced the dissemination skills of the museums. The government will therefore facilitate the application of university museums for support for water exhibitions. I am open to dialogue with the museums on how such a scheme should be implemented. That museums have attractive basic exhibitions is very important in communicating to the public. It is unfortunate that several of these have not been renewed for about 30 years. In the message, I signal that universities spend enough money on this in their internal funding system. The strength of the museums is that they can display authentic objects in their dissemination. No other form of dissemination can fully replace this. Nevertheless, it has to be recognised that there is a great deal of untapped opportunities in digital communication. There is no doubt that we have major challenges in construction at the scientific museums. This includes both improving the storage conditions of the collections themselves and more appropriate premises for the public sector. In the Communication, we take initiatives towards universities to bring forward plans for new buildings and upgrades, and I am very pleased that universities take this seriously. The aim of the Communication has been to outline the main challenges of the University Museums and to propose measures to address them. I look forward to debate and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e288	Cooperation between science centres and university museums is a theme addressed by this Communication. On different occasions, not least at the time of the opening of the White Factory in Sandnes, the Council of State itself has expressed the importance of establishing knowledge centres in this country. The report states that the Ministry states that the science centres will cooperate with the university museums and that this will be a prerequisite for the allocation of state resources. The Party for Progress and the Right considers that such cooperation must be based on common interests. Can the Council of State order cooperation? If she can't cancel it, I ask the question: doesn't the Council of State see that in some cases such a requirement can prevent the widespread real- and technology communication that is already taking place at many of our science centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e297	Governments may order this to be imposed. What we want is cooperation. We want to stimulate it. However, there is no absolute requirement for cooperation in relation to funding. What's important here is to stimulate cooperation. We're going to discuss this in our governance dialogue with the university museums. As far as science centres are concerned, we will seek good cooperation with what can be very exciting partners, not least for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e304	Storing messages can also be used to signal concrete financial escalation. The research message was an example of that. There was a signal of the share of GDP going to research by 2010 and a plan for that escalation was outlined. My question, therefore, is why, when it was not in this big message initially, the Government cannot support the opposition's proposal to promote a concrete financial escalation plan in order to make the measures outlined in the notification real for the university museums. There is no doubt, as the Council of State itself has also pointed out, that there are major challenges related to buildings, magazines and storage conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e309	In the future, we will put a lot of effort into getting better conditions for the university museums, both in terms of the building and storage challenges. What we do first, however, is to provide the necessary information. What we've asked all the museums, with the universities as co-players, to do, are real plans about the needs, so that we can see this in a context. It rarely happens to be money in a shopping message. A wholesale notification is an important basis for subsequent appropriations and any escalations. I will, of course, come back to this in budgetary terms. But we need the good foundation first. We've now asked for that, and we're about to get it right in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e318	The Committee has underlined the plans for a glasshouse/new building for living material at the Natural History Museum in Tøjene, also in order to ensure access to a witness centre for the public, for young people. It is also known that it is possible to obtain significant private donations. When I deal with this matter in particular, it's because we're celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Royal Frederiks University, the University of Oslo, in 2011. A university marker could be an important opportunity to do what we normally do in Norway, namely take a vow. We like to raise in many ways. In connection with the Union marking, we took a promise, so that the capital, among other things, was made more beautiful. It is on such occasions that we in Norway often look a little away from most of it and take a lift. Is the Council of State completely alien to the idea of taking a vow to mark the university anniversary in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e327	I would like to remind the representative of Dørum that we are actually taking a very big lift for the buildings at Karl Johan, and Aulaen, in connection with the 2011 university anniversary. In the case of the Tøjen and the greenhouse, as the representative also mentioned, it has been about private gifts. I want to be very open to it, of course, and would like to contribute to making these plans concrete. Apart from that, of course, I cannot say anything that will have budgetary implications for us. But I'll do my best to get to a good development -- especially if there comes private gifts for this very purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e334	I want to drill a little further in what the representative Dørum said. If there's something we agree on, it's that a museum should live. What's more alive than a greenhouse? There's been a promise of 60 million. kr from private donors for this purpose, which will be further reinforced by the gift-enhancing scheme. In total, we're up to 105 million. for the time being, kr. But there's a pressure in the market. The anniversary is in 2011, so we don't have much time if we want to show that this is important. In addition, what the Council of State can contribute to the budget for 2009. She can say, this we will! But if there is no funding for the 2009 budget, if the majority of the population may not have the will to prioritize this for the anniversary, could it be that the Council of State also share our concerns that some of the private donors are withdrawing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e343	I am very much in favour of both initiating and inviting private donors for this kind of purpose, both university purposes and research purposes. There are many places in the country where there is a need in our area. We absolutely need to make important priorities of what the state is going to be involved in when it comes to rather precarious situations, for example. in Bergen, who has rightly called for more attention to be paid to their building challenges. Of course, as I said to the representative, Dørum, I want to take seriously the recordings that are coming, and the opportunities that are offered, considering any private gifts to this very thing on Tøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e350	In recent days it has become clear that the initiative taken by the Left in Oslo to smoke some museums has also led the Minister of Culture to say that the National Museum should be moved to the Western Railway. What has taken the night sleep from me after it was finished is the fear that it means that the Minister of Culture believes that the Cultural History Museum should be where it is. This morning, when I prepared for this debate, I went through my own archive and found all the investigations I have -- just in my archive -- about the dreams, visions and plans of a new cultural historical museum in Bjørvika or in Sørenga. My question is whether the Council of State can now give me back the night sleep by making sure that the Minister of Culture's fiftieth smoking of the National Museum will not rock at the university museums' plans to get a new cultural historical museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e359	I can reassure the representative Skei Grande that my responsibility - the responsibility I feel for, among other things. The Cultural History Museum at the University of Oslo - is huge, and I am very aware of the process that has been going on. In fact, these days we have received a very good and thorough investigation from the University of Oslo about the need. It's important first to get it properly mapped with regard to all the things that have to be done gradually with the construction and the location. The need is now well and thoroughly investigated, and Bjørvika and the surrounding area are still an important alternative to location, I can assure you that. I am going to make sure that the Cultural History Museum in Oslo is taken good care of in the process further, and I am very happy that we have received a thorough and good needs assessment from the University of Oslo on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e374	The two things I want to say today can shine as pretty boring, but are really very exciting. One is the important principle that I believe this matter is settled - and it is established by the fact that all the parties on the Stortinget actually support it - namely the principle that the university museums belong to the universities. It's a very important principle. It's an important principle for the formation process in a nation, it's an important principle for the view of research, but it's also an important principle because it's about researchers not being given when they're sitting in their office writing their studies -- researchers are best when they're communicating to people. The idea of occasionally letting them communicate with everyone, the very best of their skills, at the very least in a society and convey their knowledge in an area, seems to me to be very important in a society that will call itself a cultural nation at all. That is why it is such an incredibly important principle. The second is about magazines, which can shine like a pretty boring thing. I've been on a study trip in London, at the Darwin Center, and I've actually been on the expedition inside the magazines. Being able to walk among lizards and large octopuses in many meters that lie in vessels, and seeing the scientists sit and research on this material, as well as exciting museum experiences and exciting tours also for young people, fascinated me very much. So warehouses and warehouses aren't just dark rooms that only scientists are allowed to go down in when they're especially important and they're going to pick up especially important material. Warehouses and warehouses can be exciting for kids as well as for those who have grown up like me, to gain knowledge and understanding of both the importance of research and what it is being researched on. That's why I think we're going to do our rhetoric a little bit when we're talking about warehouses and warehouses, from always saying that this is something you just have to have for the researchers, to also say that knowledge of this has to be communicated to everyone. Getting the understanding that the materials that Fridtjof Nansen picked when he was on the move can actually be involved and solve riddles associated with re-changes, nuclear explosions, climate change and the really great natural history challenges, into both adults' heads and children's heads are actually a very important societal job. That's why we should make sure that all the material that's around our museums is connected to the best scientists and the best minds to convey that knowledge to absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e387	I am pleased and think it is right that the university museums should be subject to the universities, as St.meld. No 15 is going to add up. At the same time, I note that the message calls for closer and more committed cooperation between different departments and authorities. That is good, because in many cases it is fully possible to co-operate between museums and institutions that sort under different departments, and in many cases cooperation is also necessary. In my home town, Tromsø, you are working on creating a north-eastern museum with the University Museum Tromsø Museum as an engine and a center. It is an initiative that is clearly positive also for the two smaller museums in the city that are meant to be involved in this cooperation, and that wants it, namely the Polarmuseet and the Perspective Museum. Today, the Polar Museum, which houses a unique collection of old and new polar history, tempts an uncertain existence because, as an unconsolidated museum, it has actually lost its state aid. The Perspective Museum, which I will claim is one of the country's most vital and exciting museums, aims at documenting our time and our close past. What these museums have in common is that they document and disseminate in an excellent way the multicultural and international north, where both the Sami, the female and the Russian-Norwegian are taken care of in interaction with the multiple, simultaneous and new north. I am therefore very confident that the Ministry of Knowledge, along with the Ministry of Culture, will take on the goal of bringing forward this exciting Northern Museum initiative, so that it can be realized as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e416	First, I'll be allowed to thank the committee. The matter we are about to deal with has gone at express speed in Stortinget. When we were to select the case rapporteur, we were told in the committee that the matter should preferably be done the day before. The Committee has therefore turned around: the first draft of the case was practically finished before the case was referred to in the Stortinget, and we have completed the proceedings both in the Kuf Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Committee and today in the Grand Chamber - all in ten days. Of course, it is not a wish situation to have to deal with matters urgently, but precisely in this case there has been such a consensus that it has been fully possible and justifiable. The issue is to empower the EEA delegation of Norway to integrate participation in the European Institute of Innovation and Technology into the EEA Agreement. The Foundation shall contribute to a better link between research and business environments and is a follow-up to the EU's Lisbon strategy for increasing employment and growth. Initially, the proposal was aimed at establishing the EIT as a European Technology Institute, but during the debate in the European Parliament, it was suggested that the EU should become much better at innovation and that this should be given a greater focus. Parliament then went in order to include the term ‘innovation’ in the name of the Foundation. In this way, it is made visible that one of the Institute’s important tasks will be to contribute to innovation and that the Institute will be an important factor in strengthening Europe’s competitiveness. During the debate in the European Parliament, it was emphasised that there is a lot of good research in a number of environments around Europe, but that researchers and universities do not have the necessary skills or financial resources to translate their results into commercial products. The situation in Norway is not in any way different from that in the rest of Europe. This is something that the KUF Committee has repeatedly been involved in both debates here in the Chamber and in meetings with research councils and university environments. The committee was back in the United States for a while, and in this respect we visited, among other things. Massachusetts Institute of Technology - MIT. What everyone noticed was the widespread focus of those there on patenting and commercialising the results of their research and development. The creation of the EIT could also help us in Norway and in Europe to have a system that, through a variety of networks, can facilitate a much better link between research and business opportunities. There are plans to set up an EIT Board of 18 people this summer, and Norway has proposed two qualified candidates through the UH Council. In addition, the location of the EIT Secretariat shall be chosen. Now there is no plan for the EIT to become a large institution in the traditional sense, but for it to have a relatively simple formal structure. The main task of the Institute will be to facilitate knowledge and innovation networks, known as KICs. In the beginning, it is added to establish two or three KICs. At the same time, a strategic innovation agenda shall be established which will be the subject of consideration by both the European Parliament and the Council. This agenda will be underpinned by the further establishment of innovation networks. Through its work and activities, the EIT shall contribute to increased mobility in the European Research Area and in relation to higher education. It is foreseen that higher education institutions participating in such networks will apply their degrees and diplomas to an EIT logo, which in itself, hopefully, will become a quality stamp and a visualisation of the innovation work. The EIT proposes to link universities, research organisations and business together as a triple helix in different ‘Science and Innovation Communities’. These Community structures are intended to contain at least three institutions or establishments and to be at least two different countries. The KUF Committee is of the opinion that Norway has both the professional competence to contribute and not least the benefits to be gained by participating in such work. NTNU/SINTEF has already been pointed out, as for example: the success of the project can contribute to European climate and energy research. The total budget of the EIT is estimated to be EUR 2.4 billion, with most of the funding coming from business. The Norwegian contribution is GDP-dependent and will be at 2.28 pst. of the EU contribution. Total 2010-2013 period is estimated at 56 million. kr. For 2008, the amount will be NOK 500000, and the Government has proposed in the revised national budget to cover this by charging the Research and Innovation Fund. Here, the position and the opposition are separated by layers in the committee. The opposition points out that this fund is to be built to ensure Norwegian research-strategic space and is not used to cover current obligations assumed by the Government. The Committee also points out that Norway has participated or participates in a variety of research, education, innovation and business-related programmes, both nationally and internationally. The size has been waiting for and also called for an innovation message. The government has announced that it is on the way, and we assume that this message will shed light on the various aspects of the work being done, based on an overall assessment. The Committee, having regard to the comments made, has agreed that the EEA delegation should be given the necessary powers to participate in a decision to include the EIT in the EEA Agreement, but we assume that the matter will be referred back to the Storting if the EEA Committee takes a decision that deviates significantly from what has emerged in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e460	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e476	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e492	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e508	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e516	President: The Grand Duchy shall now vote in cases No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e524	During the debate, Odd Einar Dørum has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2009 State Budget, with a concrete financial escalation plan for the strengthening of the university museums, with a view in particular to building and magazine conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e571	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 23 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Training Act so that those wishing to complete secondary education are entitled to such education regardless of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e590	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 23 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change to the Training Act so that students in need of linguistic development are guaranteed the same rights as students in need of sign language development or alternative and supplementary communication [[ASK]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e609	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 23 May. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, at the latest in the State budget for 2009, an increase in the allocation to the Parental Committee for Primary School, so that it will be sufficient to discharge the new responsibilities imposed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e628	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up as soon as possible proposals for provisions obliging secondary school to parental cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-30.ana.ud383e658	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
