ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e24	Two permit applications are available: by Mr Jan Petersen, on behalf of the European Parliament, on Thursday 9 October to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Abu Dhabi from the Delegation of the United Kingdom to the 119th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Finn Martin Vallersnes. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Ingrid Heggø, Espen Johnsen, Ola T. Lånke and Finn Martin Vallersnes from 13 October to 15 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Uppland County: Synnøve Fire KlemetrudFor Rogaland County: Siri A. MelingFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Cecilie Thaule LøvlidFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Solveig Kopperstad BratsethCathrin Bretzeg, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud, Siri A. Meling and Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth shall be elected to the Lagation for the time they meet respectively for the representatives of Jan Petersen, Espen Johnsen, Finn Martin Vallersnesnes and Ola T. Lånke.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e91	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the scheduled wholesale meeting expires on Thursday 9 October, because the Council of State responsible for responding to the interpellations has suffered a disease. - No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The creation meeting starts at 0 p.m. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e209	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erik Solheim State Council Knut Storberget State Council Anniken Huitfeldt The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e228	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Recently, there has been a focus on the lack of available police. It went so far that the government council recently had to stop in Stortinget and explain how he looked at the matter after it focused on the situation in Oslo. Nevertheless, the most important thing should be to ensure that the necessary police coverage is available throughout the country at all times. People expect it, and think this is part of the common good that you're going to get back as good taxpayers. It is possible that the Council of State will claim that the Government does just that. So far, I think many here in the hall and elsewhere would say that what the government claims is a significant grip, not necessarily enough. Another thing that has been striking lately is that several central labour party politicians, among other things. in the Ministry of Justice of the Grand Duchy, has indicated that illegal action is being taken by the police. They claim that overtime denial and poor shooting are part of these actions. The chairperson of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights says, inter alia: in a reading instruction: ‘It is not unproblematic that this kind of wage struggle is not the case in the wage negotiations, as PF is now doing’. If this is the case, it is very serious. If it is that illegal action is taking place, I would assume that the Council of State agrees that it is important to clarify this. My question to the Council of State will then be whether he shares the views of the Workers' Party's Anne Marit Bjørnflaten and Thomas Breen as well as the Minister of Renewal and Administration Heidi Grande Røys, where they suggest that the police have committed illegal acts. If the Council of State does not agree with this, why has he not actively supported the police and thus taken responsibility for the authority he is set to lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e244	In terms of the police campaign for not only wages but also improved employment, there are many elements in it that are fully acceptable. Nevertheless, I share the view of the Minister of Renewal that it tends towards actions that are the basis for going into and looking at. That's why the government has said that we keep a close eye on both the situation in the police districts and the form you might use to mark your point of view. So far, we have no reason to say that there are illegal actions, but to the extent that one should move in such a situation, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Renewal and Administration to ensure that the processes that will then take place actually happen. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a significant responsibility for us to now ensure that we have more policemen both in the districts and in the big cities. There's one thing that's essential to us, and that's now published in the state budget, that we're actually going to train record-breaking 552 students. It's over twice as many as the Bondevik government had to record in its period. However, it was said to have increased to 360, but now we are taking a considerable boost to train more police officers to follow up the crew report that, among other things. The League of Police has recommended that we follow up. The budget presented yesterday gives a good response to how we are now getting more policemen out in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e251	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess that's about what I expected. I want to go back to the introduction in the follow-up question. I first talked about the situation in Oslo. The Council of State was here a short time ago and presented its view of what was the reality in Oslo a few weekends ago. At the same time, we experience that the Oslo Police Association has a view that is at least 180 degrees different from what the Council of State stood here and asserted. Personally, I think it's odd that this is the case, because the consequence of this is that the police as such are losing confidence, either because of a political lack of understanding or because you deliberately play with different cards. Of course, I think that's gross. My challenge to the Council of State is: What action will the Council of State take to address the situation, so that we may reach an agreement and come to an agreement between what is happening and what the Council of State claims to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e260	The most important thing the government can do, and as the government is actually doing now to improve the situation for all the police districts of the country, are the arrests taken in connection with the state budget, among others. to train as many policemen as I had in mind, to invest more than DKK 0.5 billion next year in the emergency network coming here in Oslo, and to take initiatives to establish more police posts in Oslo. I heard the police chief in Oslo today on the news, where he, to my delight, told me how it was, among other things. be mobile. Very good! Our setting up three financial, economic investigation teams in Oslo is a significant effort to address, among other things. the economic crime we've seen in different industries. I believe that the effort we are now making, which means that we will also be able to fill 100 additional police posts for next year and in addition 150 posts for civilian tasks, helps to reduce the pressure on the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e267	It's going to be follow-up questions -- first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e270	The Council of State is talking about there being no manning crisis in the police. But the fact is, there were more police officers out in the districts years ago than it is today. The police must drop every three assignments--at least they did it in Stavanger this weekend. The police don't move out either when something serious is happening. I could ram up several things. This is actually everyday out in the police districts today. Every day in the Council's office may be a little different. In response to the representative Ellingen, the Council of State pointed out all the amazing things that are now being started using the budget for next year. But there are actually several months until the budget comes into force, and then my question is: I wonder what the Council of State intends to do in these months until the New Year, until the budget comes into force? And then I'd like to ask, will the Council of State take care of people's security in the police districts by having the police carry out the missions they're going to when people call and call them? And: Will the Council of State make sure that extra appropriations are given for Christmas, so that the police can do what they are going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e279	We follow the situation in the police carefully at all times, and it is not that next year's government budget will apply from 1 January, so the police are now completely out of action and money. I recall that in the current year’s budget, Norwegian police have nearly 8 billion kroner for administration, and in Oslo there are 1.4 billion kroner. We're increasing that to NOK 1.6 billion next year, so there's significant grip that's being taken. But things happen in these days in the Norwegian police. On September 1st, among other things, the major DNA reform, which this year costs about 60 million. kr, get started. It provides both the Oslo Police and the district police with the opportunity to deploy new technologies and rationalise the business and increase the clearance rate, and it is now being phased into most districts. The fact that all DNA samples are centrally financed is a good example of the fact that the operating budget will be eased already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e286	Elisabeth Aspaker - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e290	It must be obvious that the rules of the labour market are being followed by all groups, and it would be particularly problematic if the law enforcement powers and those set to enforce the laws of the country were to rise above them. Everything suggests that the police are vulnerable to manned, and then it is striking that the Council of State is not more clearly presented with clear instructions on how to get out of today's misery. The situation in the police now needs to be said to be exceptional. He has completely shattered the track and seems to have overshadowed himself in the high-block in the government quarter without doing anything. One might get the impression that the government seems to think that the police problems may be due to illegal actions, which the Council of State has today confirmed. My question will then be: How long has the Council of State been planning to sit still and stand by the fact that the police are becoming more and more short? If the Government believes that illegal actions are in progress, then the Labour Court must be the right address.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e301	When it comes to following the path, it's not that often I'm accused of overshadowing the path in debates around justice policy. Rather, on the contrary, I am accused of being too much on the track, especially from the Right. With respect to the situation of the police, I have to respectfully inform them that if there are any people responsible for the fact that today we have problems in manning positions in the police, it is those who three or four years ago put in the government position and decided how big the recording would be. You had a recording at the police high school that was all the way down to 240, and if we kept doing that, the crew would slowly, but probably go down to the police. The most important thing we do is, of course, that the recording is increasing considerably, and that we blow up the capacity of the schools both in Oslo and Bodø. I also have to remind you of the DNA technology that the government has now implemented from 1 September. Here the thing is still happening. Why can't you take a little bit of criticism for example? did it not take hold in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e310	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e313	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that there should be trust in the police. And we're very busy taking the police's views seriously. They have told us for a long time that they have a difficult working situation. There are underlying reasons why there is a high level of sick leave, and we find it unfortunate to focus on whether it is an illegal action or not. The focus should be on taking it seriously. To train more policemen is to take it seriously. That's good! But we also need to engage in a dialogue on other aspects of the work of the police that make their everyday lives demanding. Anyway, the question of illegal actions or will not bring us forward. What's going to take us on is getting us into a good working environment. What action will the Council of State take to improve the working environment of police officers, as well as to train more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e318	I fully agree with the questioner's angle of the situation in which the Norwegian police operate. That's why it's important to build trust in the police -- it's high, and we have to make sure that it's not significantly reduced -- that we seize police officers to get a better working day. The government's perception has been, ever since we started to increase the admission to the Police College, that we need more people so that people don't have to work as much overtime as we can see. Then I have to take heart and say that we want the sick leave in the building to go down, but the sick leave in the police is no higher than the average elsewhere in the public sector. It is not frighteningly high, and I believe that there are good opportunities to get it down further. We have also pointed to the importance of investing in, for example: protective equipment to provide adequate protective equipment. I am pleased that there is now being invested too fully in weapons and protective equipment in the police districts, and we are soon on the way to getting enough equipment in place. Then I also believe that the work situation will be improved by the reorganisations that need to be done around the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e327	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e330	I will allow myself to follow up and ask the Minister of Justice about the current situation of the police. I remember the round we had earlier in Stortinget, where it was important for us to stress that security is a fundamental asset of well-being. One of the reasons we have a nation-state is that it has to provide security. Therefore, investing in both defence and police is the fundamental tasks of our society. But there are increasing numbers of policing rooms, and people are feeling more insecure. When the Council of State was last here in Stortingen, efforts were made to minimize the challenges by referring to the fact that the information provided was not necessarily correct. That round is now coming per. letter from the Control and Constitutional Committee - I hope that the Council of State will clarify it. But after that time we have received reports that in Hammerfest the fire department had to go in and do police work, because there was no police available. In the Saturday revision in the NRK, there was a headline on 27 September about a young politician - and I am absolutely sure that she, although she is a woman, is as good as a man - who was alone in charge of 53,000 inhabitants in 12 municipalities. It sounds like a big problem. It is such that the budget currently presented does not meet the particular situation that arises when it actually disappears 120 years of work due to new working time regulations. Even though there are now several civilian staff members, it is equivalent to one in each police district. It's not a powerful bet. Whenever it is also said that senior measures are to be introduced, only one locally initiated action without own funds is shown to do so. Then I will ask the same question as I asked the last time: Does the Council of State think that this contributes to his being able to safeguard people's security and security, and that it is going to be better in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e347	Yes. I believe that the budget that has now been presented is a budget for more security also in terms of combating crime. I also want to expand that perspective. There's a lot of police resources being saved if the police don't have to carry custody prisoners around the country and the beach. We've soon built the reconciliation queue -- the last number we got, was 504 judges. When Erna Solberg was in government, there were up to 3,000 people standing in a reconciliation queue. This is a relationship that also contributes to a shortage of police resources. An effective prevention policy is also important in this respect. And then I believe that if we had continued with the policy of the Bondevik government regarding admission to the high school of police, which moved from 240 to 360, we would be in a considerable shortage of police resources. That's why it's so important what we're doing now, with a record record recording at 552, and at the same time, the possibility of, through the budget that's submitted, that we also get the profits of police students - estimated at 104 - out to work next year. In addition, I am pleased with both the DNA effort and the significant effort on the emergency network that comes next year, which is an investment of over NOK 3 billion for Norwegian police, which also contributes to the safety of workers and not least more efficient investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e356	The first measure to be taken by this Council of States was to reverse private passenger transport and the proposal related thereto. That means that what you're now bragging about, you could have done three years ago. What also happened in the last government period was that we started to pick up more people at the Police College - after the excessive belief of the Stoltenberg I government that the police reform was going to give us more policemen out in the street. In the meantime, however, the Council of State has lost 120 annual works to a new working time system. In the meantime, he has left out to hire private people in such a large amount that it has given more than short-term measures. He has left out introducing senior measures so that people could have been longer in work. And the budget presented is characterised as follows by the Joint League of Police: there will be a decline in the real growth of the operating budget. It's a disaster in today's situation. Is Arne Johannessen wrong, or is it the Council of State that decorates a lot of its budget now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e365	I think Arne Johannessen made significant mistakes in his statements. I noticed that one started with disaster description, but took away that term beyond the day. There was considerable criticism of the budget, but moderated somewhat. It might be because you've actually read the text during the day. We're gonna strengthen the Norwegian police with 789 million. kr. I find it difficult to see that this will help the police to break down in 2009 - also taking into account that the development of crime in a good number of districts shows a decline. We are now in a situation in which we take a power cap for the police. I believe that we should ensure a further decline in relation to crime. Then I'm glad that Erna Solberg takes it up with private prisoner transport. That doesn't mean we've shut down the prisoner transport, but it's recruited civilians in Westfold, Telemark and Buskerud who handle that project at a lower cost than when it was commercial. They're also doing more, so we get more out of the heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e372	It's going to be follow-up questions -- first André Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e376	The police in Rome yesterday stated that this budget means an economic closure of the police service in Norway, also locally. The police in Rogaland today say that frustration will only increase, that this is a drop in the ocean, and that the audience and society will lose. The police in Sogn and Fjordane have a known problem that it can often be that a police officer sits alone with responsibility for 12 municipalities one weekend because the colleague has become ill. From Hammerfest we heard that the police have to use firemen to do the job because the police don't have time. So in that situation, government parties choose to attack the police, the media, for example. worry about organising civil protection in Lillestrøm. Then the question is, does the Council of State mean, like what he said about Arne Johannessen, that all these local people are completely wrong about the reality that the Council of State describes here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e385	In one moment, in her questions to me today, the Right says that we have completely shaded the track and walled ourselves inside the block. Now, the representative André Oktay Dahl says just a few minutes later that we are going to have a frontal attack on, among other things. media. I have trouble seeing the logic of the argument. Sometimes some critical questions may need to be asked to the premiscuous parties in this debate. It's quite right, as André Oktay Dahl says, that from Rome they have said that this budget will involve a political liquidation of the police service. Do you really mean that? Crime goes down. A budget with which the Police Union was reasonably satisfied last year, we're increasing by 789 million. kr, and we're increasing the admission to Police College to a level that we've never seen before. Is it a political liquidation of the police service? I think that's a wrong statement, and I think maybe you should be careful to use it a lot in political debate, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e392	Jan Arild Ellingsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e395	Once again, it's interesting to hear the Council of State. I recorded that he had a history review with the representative Erna Solberg. At the same time, it may well be a good thing to remember that the then opposition politician Knut Storberget, together with the Bondevik II government, cut the appropriations for the police in 2004 - if we are to get along with the whole story. We're now in a situation where there's a dispute between political leadership and the department that's going to provide services to the population, i.e. the police. At worst, we end up with a situation where the population feels like hostages being dragged between two forces. I believe that the Council of State must get on the road as soon as possible to clarify what is the reality of this. Is it like this, from the Council of State's point of view, that PF is deliberately running a negative campaign to give negative attention to itself, or is it just like that that they describe reality as they see it? Or is it just from the Council's office that reality can be described and perceived correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e402	I think it's very important that both I and the Government and others oppose what we see as an incorrect description of the police situation. An incorrect description, particularly in the negative direction, creates insecurity. When one claims that there have been seven policemen at work in Oslo one night and the Oslo police district informs us that there have been far more - 43 I believe to remember that it was - we must be in our full right to come up with such a position. Then I would also like to say that I am visiting now all the police districts - I have left the West-Finland police district. There is a significant job in the police department. The violence and morality section here in Oslo, which we have strengthened with a good deal of jobs now in the last year, has had significant breakthroughs, among others. in cases of serious rape and murder cases in August. We see that the police are delivering. When crime also goes down in many areas, I think it's right to have it signalled to the population, so that you know that we have a police that delivers good both in prevention and repair, and that at the same time contributes to crime actually having a positive development in many areas. It's our duty to bring it up, because it's part of creating security in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e413	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e416	The Christian People's Party is committed to maintaining the police force that we have, and then it is important to focus on recruitment and to focus on the working environment. But it's also very important that you get the police force to do more work, because they have an important competence. There is little help in getting many new students if you see that you are leaving early in the job. We've got a lot of signals that it's hard. Whether it's called a manning crisis, or what it's supposed to be called: we have to take seriously that it's hard to be a police officer today. What senior measures will the Council of State take to ensure that there is a desire to be longer at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e423	As I have explained many times in Stortinget, our staffing strategy, which comes from the staffing committee's report, has many grips. The most important thing is the admission to the Police College. There's no doubt about it. We need more policemen. At the same time, we need more civilians, and I think we're taking action on that. The catch transport project in Westfold is a good example. What you're doing in the Oslo arrest now is a good example. The last one, which is also very important, and which the questioner addresses, are the senior measures. Many districts are discussing good measures in this regard, and we are also looking at key actions to increase the number of people in the position. Let me give you a few examples: it could be that we can change work for the older ones, it could be that you get a little less work time, and it could also be that you get some extra financial incentive to be in a position. These are the districts that are trying out, and I believe that this is the way to get more people to stand in the position of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e430	André N. Skelstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e433	It is good that proposals are made for high admissions to the Police College, which in many ways is in line with the Left's repeated mention of the last year. Police are needed outside to provide security. There are two important actions that have also been addressed earlier in this round of questions. It's a good senior policy, so that there's an opportunity to work longer for those who want it, and there are civil positions. But with the changes that we are now seeing in the current working time regulations, a lot of the increases have already eaten up the next harvest. The narrow thing that's reserved for civil positions is not the whole world either. I've heard what the Council of State has answered earlier in this round of questions, but I want to challenge him again by asking: Where will the real increase in effort be next year -- with this as a hindrance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e442	When we increase the police budget by 789 million. kr - nominal kr - and you get a real increase of over 200 million. kr, I believe it will have an impact on the entire Police-Norway. That's our ambition, that's why we do it. Recruiting 100 additional police officers beyond the level we have today means that more police districts are getting more staff. The fact that we want more civilians to go in applies to the whole country. The DNA reform, which we're introducing now, that we're going to spend next year over 100 million. It is a reform that reaches all police districts. You get central funding, you get additional staffing resources, and so you get a reform of both the law and the budget that helps to clarify. Then it is my very great hope that we now also ensure that you can increase the applicant mass for the Police College from all over Norway, so that it will be easier to recruit to the districts, among other things. to Nord-Trøndelag, where we had that debate with the police chief recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e448	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e451	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who is also the Minister for Consumer Affairs. We have seen an increasing level of consumer debt in 2008. We see a sharp increase in the number of debt collection cases, and we have several people who have loans over the top of the mortgage, and who have consumption loans on top of it. Therefore, the warning lights about potential indebtedness have flashed quite a long time. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have been concerned that in good times we should prevent new debt cases and new debt victims, and promoted, among other things. in 2006 a total of 13 concrete proposals for, inter alia: the prevention of debt problems. Then we got the state budget yesterday. We know how the financial situation has been in the last few weeks, a significantly worse situation for many who have high mortgages, higher interest rates, and who may also have consumer debts. But I have to say that I do not see any trace of a single concrete action by the Government in relation to the new situation that is now emerging and that can create many unfortunate indebted victims - many families that can endure incredibly much as a result of the situation we now have. So my question is, what is the reason why the government doesn't seem to be prepared for the difficult situation that many people are facing today??
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e462	We must follow these developments very closely. We have extended the obligation of financial institutions to warn, not only against loans, but also against credit purchases, so that it will be more difficult to obtain credit purchases if the person making credit purchases does not have the opportunity to repay. It's a concrete tightening that we've contributed to. In addition, we have consulted a proposal for a debt regime that will improve the situation of those in debt crisis. We have done that because many have been in a very difficult situation, and with the old debt regime each had to take a lot of initiative itself, but we have seen that many of those in an acute debt crisis need even more help from the municipalities. That is why we have improved the system of municipalities to help each individual debt victim. But as I said, we are closely following the situation. Now, consumption loans are a very high risk for individuals, but that's now 90 pst. of the consumption loans raised, which are paid in a proper manner. However, there is now a clear danger in such a market that more people will raise consumption loans without covering them. Therefore, we need to have good arrangements in this field and make credit institutions responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e467	I thank you for your answer. It is okay to make legislative proposals that may have an impact from 2010, but there is no answer to the situation that is now developing. I can take a specific question to the Government that I hope it will look at. A lot of pusher consumption loans on the individual. This is done by the fact that you can get a loan of up to NOK 250000 without security simply by answering a text message, replying to a text-tv advertisement or small ads in the newspaper. That means that people who may be running out of time to cover their debt take up this kind of loan, which has unbuying conditions, and which costs enormously, and which can lead them into a further crisis. We have proposed by the Christian People's Party that consumers should have a period of thought before such loans can be granted. The government has so far said no to it. Is there anything in today's situation that the Government will continue to say no to such a proposal, which will dampen up the crisis that could result from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e476	This, of course, is a proposal that we can consider. But what is important is that the Consumer Ombudsman can intervene in relation to contractual terms that are unfair to each individual consumer. We have very good arrangements, which the consumer authorities in this area represent, and action should be taken in relation to misleading marketing if consumers are not given the necessary information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e481	There will be follow-up questions - first Modulf Increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e484	That's good what the Council of State has said up until now, that one follows the situation. But the payment crisis for many is here now, yes, it actually grows from day to day. Many have fallen into debt and raised loans while interest rates were extremely low. The first half of 2008 saw the end of 2.2 million debt collection cases. This is a growth of 260,000 cases, and it's a new record. Debt collection on credit cards has had a triple in the last year. The debt collection industry expects more than 4 million new debt collection cases in 2008. And that's not small money we're talking about. The Credit Authority calculates that the Nordics' pool of miscarriage is almost NOK 100 billion. What will the Council of State do specifically to help the many who have come into such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e491	That's why we've changed this with the obligation of credit institutions not to advise. Before, they had the obligation to advise against borrowing, now this has also been transferred to credit cards. We know that many of those who end up in a very difficult situation have not taken up a loan, but have taken up credit card loans and thus financed current consumption through the use of credit cards. I believe it is to extend the responsibility of each credit institution, and it will take care of a lot of what the questioner here addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e496	Karin S. Woldseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e499	In my previous life, I worked as a debt counsellor, and have over two rounds cleaned up for families and people with very difficult finances. Now we were told that there is a new law on indebtedness and that there is a new law on indebtedness out there at the hearing. But we read daily about both online companies and others who almost throw consumer loans at you. And credit purchase is not a problem. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State what action she intends to take to deal with this, and not least what action she intends to take to help all the potential victims of the debt, because they will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e506	The most important thing in helping each individual debt victim is that there is good provision in municipalities. People who have been in a very acute situation often contact private debt advisors, some of whom may further exacerbate the situation, even though there are serious actors in this market as well. But it is important that those who work with this in the municipalities are given increased responsibility for giving advice to the individual who has been in debt crisis. Many of those in debt crisis are in a very difficult situation. There are more people who have been out of the labour market, and the requirements that the old law laid down were that you had to be very active in relation to contacting those with whom you had a loan. We've been in favour of greater help for the individual debt victim, because very many people, like the questioner, are in a very difficult situation. So we've expanded the responsibilities of municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e516	Olemic Thommesen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e519	When you get into a debt situation, it's often very sudden. And I guess we also see that this whole financial crisis has come a little bit like the Christmas evening at the heart of a surprising number of people. The ones we talk about that are the most vulnerable are often also resource weak. There are often people who may not take the initiative quickly enough to do something about their situation. And we know that there's a lot to do. When I hear from the Council of State, she talks a lot about legislation. It's going to go too slow, we all know that. In part, she talks about the municipalities doing more, and I think that's the beginning of a useful track. Could the Council of State, for example, do you intend to take an initiative in bringing together the banking industry, consumer authorities and NAVs, i.e. the social offices, and to sit down and try to put out a strategy on how to get people to seek help in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e530	That could be one of many good suggestions. After all, the Minister of Finance follows this situation very closely and is in constant contact with banks to get a good deal of management of the situation. I also want to add that yesterday we presented that we want to increase the housing allowance. It will help a good part of the families with children and other people in a difficult situation. Many of the steps we have taken will have direct consequences for many of those who are indebted. And getting help from the municipality is one of the most important things now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e539	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e542	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim annoyed many in the Workers' Party when he visited Lofoten this summer. His message was very clear: he wanted to do everything in his power to avoid the oil activity associated with the Lofoten and the West Pole. In contrast to this, the Government is significantly more active in facilitating oil activity in the Lofoten and the Western Sea than is used in environmental studies. In practice, the Government prioritises oil interests higher than environmental interests. This means that it is now expected that the environmental studies in Lofoten and the Western Sea and the Barents Sea will not be completed before the management plan will be rolled out in 2010. This imbalance is maintained in the 2009 budget, with seismic surveys and resources increasing by 60 million. kr. Congratulations and thanks from the Land Association of the Oil Industry ticked into last night. So while SV says they have to fight oil activity, they are involved in a policy that in practice prepares the basis for such activity. My question is, what is the reason why SV agrees that the government in the budget by budget spends much more on monitoring oil resources than on doing the job promised when it comes to monitoring environmental interests? Yesterday Erik Solheim got a lot of praise and was described as a budget winner. In this area, he's actually outrun.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e557	Let me first say that there was no OLF congratulations telegram yesterday, but there were a lot of congratulations from green Norway, from an overall environmental movement, which, if they didn't use exactly that word, was very, very happy that 15 years' standstill in the environmental budgets in Norway has now turned to a substantial rise. The reality is that for 15 years -- since Thorbjørn Berntsen's time -- the environmental budgets have gone up and down almost on a straight line, and suddenly we've got a significant increase of 18 p.m., if we don't count on the cultural memory fund, and 25 p.m. If we count on it. So it wasn't from the oil industry, but from the environmental movement -- and I want to say in this context, and thank you for that, including Lars Sponheim -- I got very nice congratulations yesterday. That's what they say. So to the topic: Yes, we want to facilitate that we have the whole decision base when a decision on possible extraction in the Lofoten and the West Pole is to be taken in 2010. This is a maritime bottom survey and a survey of oil resources. Of course, this applies to fishing resources and what oil exploration will mean for the growing area of cod populations, which is of fundamental importance to life along the coast of Norway. But there is also a topic that has been little up to now: what does oil exploration mean for tourism? For the Lofoten in particular, but also for the West Pole, tourism is a very central industry, and what oil exploration will mean for that industry must also be mapped. On the basis of the full basis of this decision, a decision shall then be taken in 2010. But I won't disclose any state secrets if I say that my scepticism to start oil drilling in 2010 is very significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e566	I agree that this was a very good budget for the environment. One of the reasons why it was good was that the climate agreement was a very good boost when it came to the government's environmental efforts. That's good. But there were nuances in the message that came from the environmental movement, because several of them clearly expressed the same concern that I have, namely that there is too little investment in environmental monitoring in the Barents Sea. This means that the basis for adopting a management plan is becoming too poor. The Minister for the Environment did not answer my question: what is the reason why the government in the budget for the budget has the misunderstanding that they significantly increase the appropriations for seismics, but do not rely on what is necessary, on environmental studies? So I have two questions. Can the Minister for the Environment guarantee that the necessary monitoring work on environmental resources will be done before a decision is taken? And question No. 2: Is the Minister for the Environment of SV comfortable with this mixture of efforts on seismics and environmental efforts, a mixture with which the OLF is satisfied, but with which the environmental organisations and the Left are not satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e575	No, I'm not comfortable with the fact that oil business is incredibly much more expensive than environmental activities. I would very much like to see that we are now continuing the run from the successful budget this year over a ten-year period, because that is what Norway needs. Lifting in one year's budget is a nice and right and good thing, but only if we build rocks on rocks over a long period of time, we move and change power relationships in Norway in the basic way that has to - and I'm sure of Kvassheim and I agree - for the benefit of the environment. Having said that, I would say that I believe that we now have a good basis for making decisions in 2010. However, if in 2010 we do not have sufficient environmental data to make a decision, it is in itself a central argument to wait with a decision to start oil activities in Lofoten and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e585	There will be follow-up questions - first Alvhild Hedstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e588	I hear the Council's response on the imbalance between money for environmental monitoring and money for oil exploration. Very well known, the money for environmental monitoring will not be enough to monitor biodiversity in the Barents Sea. I have a simple question for the Minister for the Environment: Does the Minister for the Environment think it makes sense to spend 200 million. kr on oil exploration in the north, given SV's resistance to oil extraction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e595	I feel that I answered that question to Kvassheim, but I like to repeat it. In order to make the right decision in 2010, we need to identify all aspects of potential oil exploration in the Lofoten and the Vestral. Then you have to know if there are oil resources there. That is what the Seismics Programme will of course contribute to. Then you have to map the marine environment. That's what MAREANO is all about. Then you have to look at the fishing part of this and look at how oil business might have an impact on growing conditions for cod. Then you have to look at the tourist bit. You have to take the whole picture. What I am concerned about, on the other hand, is the strategic image of Norwegian society. Over a period of 20-30 years, we have built up a very significant use of money on the oil industry and an excessive use of money on the environment. For the first time, a government is taking this into account and is really setting itself on the environment. After 15 years of real stamina, we are now increasing significantly. There should be all the environmental hearts in the Biggest, and there are a lot of environmental hearts outside the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e605	Tord Lien - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e608	Unlike the two previous questioners, I am pleased that the Government is also facilitating seismic shooting next year, and hope you can do it with a lower level of conflict than you had this year. When the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside Lofoten and the Western Sea was adopted in Stortinget, it was made clear from all parties that these sea areas were to be managed on the basis of comprehensive knowledge-based management. It was then clear that the completion of the MAREANO project would cost 250 million. kr. They have received, as far as I have come to, approx. 130-140 million. kr, so well over half of what they were going to have. Then you can ask yourself in relation to what Solheim says, whether the failure to complete MAREANO in itself will be an argument for not opening up oil drilling -- whether the government has done this consciously. In any case, the result is that when we are going to review the plan in 2010, it is split and not complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e617	First, I would like to send back a challenge to Tord Lien, which I see as one of the very few representatives of the Progress Party with a real heart for environmental protection, and that is that we are working to ensure that the Progress Party will also be able to support the significant increase in the environmental budget, as we need, which is important for the strategic power conditions of Norwegian society. Otherwise, Tord Lien was also in the middle of a central thing, and that's that there's been too much conflict around seismics. The only way to dampen that conflict is to get more knowledge. Therefore it was sad that the follow-up research on seismics that should have been conducted this year, for various practical reasons – for which I understand – was not driven. However, it is absolutely essential that next year, when seismic shooting is carried out, it is also put in place and actually carried out follow-up research, so that fishing interests and others can be fully aware of the real impact of seismic shooting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e624	Ivar Kristiansen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e627	It was a bit of a judgment councillor Solheim served over former colleagues for 15 years. Many of them have done a very good job. But we'll probably have an opportunity to discuss that later. I haven't heard anyone talk about us starting oil drilling outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål in 2010, as Solheim does today. What everyone is concerned about is that we should put in place the management plan for political treatment. Here the government is doing its utmost to ensure that you are not able to get this on the table. It would almost be thought that the Seismics Programme was directed by the bitterst opponents of activities outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. One would think that this was created to get as many opponents as possible, just to achieve the goal that Solheim has seen here today: the willingness to lack dialogue, and the willingness to conflict, etc. Why have not Solheim and his colleagues, who have spent three years on the spectator's bench, made sure that the management plan for the area for which the State has full responsibility has been put in place in a sensible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e636	First, I want to give tribute to the representative Kristiansen, who I have seen come up with several reasonable opinions that mitigate the level of conflict around these issues in the Nordic countries. I appreciate that. I would say that we should do our utmost to mitigate the conflicts around seismics, and getting the follow-up research in place is absolutely central in this regard. It was purely practical accidents that did not happen this year. It is not things that are under my responsibility, but it was unhappiness and accident that did not happen, and I have accepted that. The more important it is that it will be put in place in 2009 when seismic shooting. Finally, I have not passed any judgment on former environmental protection ministers in Norway. I have the greatest respect for many of them. But the strategic situation in Norway for 15 years has been such that there has not been enough pressure - from environmental organisations, from the Storting, from individuals - to really turn the strategic situation in Norway towards the environment. That is why the budget for the budget has come out with the environment as a loser. We're turning that around this year, and that must be the start of a similar decade process in which you change the strategic conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e645	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e648	When we dealt with the management plan, an overall opposition said that there must be enough money to raise knowledge. The government parties said we have to wait and look at the annual budgets. We've now seen three budgets. It's oil and seismics that win, sea-bound loser, and seabirds lose. The situation will be like this when we get to 2010, that we might be missing 100 million. kr in relation to the charting of the seabed. Then we don't want the knowledge base on which the audit was to be conducted. The council says something happy today -- that this might lead to that we can't take the revision that the government has submitted to. These are the signals that the Christian People's Party has made for a long time, because we thought the revision would come too early. Will the Council of State stand on this point - even in public outside this room - that we have not gained enough knowledge, will we postpone the revision in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e655	Yeah, of course I'll stand on it, it just had to be missing. Not just me, but a collective government will stand on the point that if we don't have enough knowledge, we can't make a decision either. That's exactly why we acquire knowledge in so many areas. I think the MAREANO programme will acquire a lot of good knowledge in its field. I also believe, and have taken an initiative here, that we need much more knowledge about the impact on tourism - for example. What it means for Lofoten as a World Heritage Site if you were to set oil drilling in motion. We need knowledge of seismics to know what actually exists. And we need -- and that might be the seventh and last of all the most important -- a lot of knowledge about the fisheries and how oil and fish might live together. Based on this overall picture, the Government will take a decision in 2010, and the Stortinget will of course be involved in that decision. But I'm not hiding anything when I say that I'm going into this with a skeptical basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e664	The size goes to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e667	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. An overall increase has supported the conservation of the rainforest. Rainforest is referred to as our common lung. It includes nine countries and is of the size of Western Europe. It contains 30 pst. of the fresh water of the soil and rich in biodiversity, up to 30 pst. of the diversity of the globe. At the same time, it's worth noting that the state of Brazil owns 65 pst. of the Brazilian rain forest. Brazil's President, Lula, recently established an Amazon fund, where Norway is the first and only country to contribute to the fund - up to $1 billion by 2015, according to the Government. At the same time, the Brazilian state accounts for most of the deforestation in Brazil. The Brazilian Environment Minister recently accepted that landowners in the Amazon should preserve less forest than today’s Brazilian legislation requires. Some of us get a little skeptical when President Lula says at the same time that it's Brazil that's going to decide how the money in the Amazon fund is spent. It makes many people wonder if we can be sure that the Norwegian rainforest billions actually benefit. It's not enough with good intentions, it's the results that count. Are we well prepared for what we are doing now, or are we in the hurry of farms hoping to secure political gain? That's a lot of challenges. Governments have described many of them both in the media earlier and in the state budget: the size per year. land, the economic driving forces that govern this, and the lack of political control and governance in these countries. Governments have said that a robust, efficient and flexible international architecture for deforestation work needs to be established. This he has said many times. But the money is already in the budget. Then the question is, can the Council of State assure that the international architecture that he himself has requested is now in place - so that one can guarantee that the money leads to the results that everyone wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e681	No, I can't guarantee that that architecture is in place at all. What Norway works intensively with every day is getting it in place. We are world leaders in this work, nothing less. But let me first say that the one point where the Progress Party has often had a point in the criticism of Norwegian aid is that it is not enough to have the very best intentions. It has had all the aid workers and all the state councils in this area. It is not the intentions that determine whether the assistance is successful, but the results. That's one hundred percent on the line. I would like to say that I have made a strong deal with that idea all my time as Minister of Development. The unique thing about the Amazon Fund is that it's just based on results. We're giving in money now to get this work going - along with the Brazilian authorities, which of course are the biggest contributors. But if this programme does not deliver results in two or three years, the flow of money from Norway will stop, because it is based on the fact that Brazil can document in a way that is posted on the Internet, which all critics in the world can see, as SV, the Progress Party and anyone in Norway can study, the Rainforest Fund - all. All the information on how deforestation is done is provided, and Norwegian support remains dependent on positive results. What I don't think Norway can go into is the balance between the different institutions and the interests of Brazil itself. There's a power struggle in Brazil. There are different departments there with different interests, not unlike other countries we know -- that's normal. For us to decide on the kind of domestic policy issues in Brazil is impossible. But that's exactly what we're avoiding through this system, because the money comes when Brazil shows results, based on a baseline that we're now going to jointly establish. Then, on any supplementary question, I can come back to what we're doing to get a global architecture in addition to the Brazilian.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e694	I agree that you should work to get a global architecture on this. That's what I think will ensure the best possible result. What still becomes the question, for which safety is not fully guaranteed, is whether Norway is making too early use of this money in order to ensure that we also get results early in the process, as that architecture does not exist. Could Norway provide money that in the short term postpones deforestation but in no way ensures a lasting change in behaviour? Because that's what it takes to get results. You have to get a permanent behavioral change and not just pay Brazil for the Brazilian state itself not to cut wood for ten years - but then they allow the forest to grow over the ten years and can get even greater economic benefits from mowing the forest ten years later, because it will give more cubic timber on the same areas. The question then is: what kind of transparency has Norway been given in the work of the fund? Can we join in and see what decisions are taken, how the projects are selected and the funds are paid out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e699	The reason why we're going into Brazil is that it's the most advanced country in building up such systems. They have the largest rainforest, but also the deciduous best systems. If we can't help Brazil save its rainforest, we can just as well give up the entire project, because it's a lot harder in Congo, Papua New Guinea or any other country that you can imagine at all than in Brazil. Those countries are getting shorter. That's why we're going into Brazil. Brazil is also the world leader in creating systems in this area. Of course, we have insight into how the money is used. More than that, we just want to keep giving money if there's any results. With regard to the global architecture, Jens Stoltenberg and I ourselves signed an agreement with Ban Ki-moon, the UN Secretary-General, on a system where the UN makes a global program. Nine countries have been picked out as pilot countries. The point of this is to put in place an international system and to gain experience from individual countries in advance of the Copenhagen Conference in a year, so that the whole world can then contribute money into a system that is already there when we get to Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e708	There will be follow-up questions - Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e711	I allow myself to become a little worried. Now it is estimated that next year the Norwegian State will spend between NOK 1.5 billion and NOK 3 billion on buying up and protecting the rainforest from the highest. So the council says we'll see in a few years if it actually works. Whether it was two years or five years or ten years, I don't know if he said anything about it, but at least that's a lot of money. It may sound as if the Council of State agrees that there are certain problems associated with political Brazil and that it is a power struggle. What you're supposed to do is pay this government and the political environment in Brazil to stop mowing, or rather, apparently, you're going to pay the government to wait a few years to cut the forest, which we're now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e716	The real challenge, which is common to Brazil and all rainforest countries, is to create the system that gives economic incentives to the individual farmer out in the rainforest, who has no malicious motives. He or she wants to get education for her children, want food on the plate tomorrow, and then all have the same dreams that Tord Lien and I have. Today he or she can only carry out those dreams by mowing the forest. We want to create incentives, so that he can make the same money for the same future for his children by not cutting wood. Of course, this is a difficult process. We haven't gone into this because it's easy, but we've gone into this because it's incredibly important. And then we're trying to help Brazil get to this system. Brazil has problems right now, but has been a successful country in recent years. Only the reduced deforestation rate in the Amazon after 2000 corresponded per year. 10 times all Norwegian emissions. If we add up all traffic, oil -- everything we do in Norway -- it was a tenth of Brazil's reduced deforestation in the Amazon. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e724	Peter Skovholt Gitmark - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e727	The superstructure here is simple: Deforestation in tropical countries stands for 20 pst. of all the man-made CO2 emissions. 70 pst. emissions come from seven countries. Indonesia alone stands for 30 pst. and Brazil for 20 pst. 15-20 pst. Amazon has already disappeared. It is obvious that Norway not only has a national responsibility for the climate, but we also have an international responsibility. That was also the reason why the Right was the driver for this to be part of the climate agreement. It is gratifying that all the parties on the Stortinget are actually behind the idea that we should spend Norwegian money to combat deforestation. But there are three main points that must be on the ground: the first is that this must apply to permanent protection. The second is that we have to be involved in exporting technology for monitoring, because without monitoring, we don't know if the money actually goes to what they're going to do. The final point is that control mechanisms also need to be in place at present. My question to the Council of State is: what kind of control mechanisms are in place now and are expected to be in place at present?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e737	I cannot agree more with what Gitmark says. We need control mechanisms. These control mechanisms are established by the Brazilian state, but we're going in and we're looking at what they're doing. They are established with satellites. I'd like to find the answer, but the satellites are probably American. It's Brazil that has developed the systems to use the satellites to photograph the rainforest down to the micro level, so you can get documented results. And the most important thing is, this happens in full transparency, so that it can be outsourced so that all the world's critics, in the Storting or globally, can have insight into it. Let me also say that at least we have now released the debate on whether rainforest farming is good aid. It's one of the few areas where we really get three things at the same time. We get help both for people living in poverty, in forests, we get the diversity of species in some of the most unique ecosystem humanity knows, and at the top of it all we get reduced global climate emissions. The fact that it's also in our interest is not negative, it's just a force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e744	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e747	Erik Solheim and the undersigned can congratulate each other on the achievement of our common climate settlement and our common goal of bringing Norwegian assistance back to 1 pst. And over it. It's a pleasure. But State Council Solheim must also show the back of the medal. In order to make room for this great effort on the rainforest and to accommodate a tripling of spending in Norway on asylum recipients, etc. the rest of the aid budget has had to endure a real downturn. There is a real decline in non-governmental organisations, transitional assistance, health and vaccine initiatives and indebtedness. And what's the most serious of all, is that there's a real decline in emergency aid and humanitarian aid, in the budget Solheim put forward yesterday. It stands in stark contrast to the needs of the world. We saw a report in Evening News yesterday from Ethiopia, dried more than in many, many years, where a grandmother with a two-year-old of 7 kg cries for help. The question is: can the Council of State Solheim, in the light of all he has got, also guarantee that Norway will actually hold up its ambitions in these areas, where there is now a real decline?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e755	There's not a real decline in the rest of the aid budget, as this is claimed. Now I've gone into this with rainforest in all of the other answers. Let's say once and for all that climate action is one of the most important assistance we can provide. Jeffrey Sachs, perhaps the world's leading authority in the field, said in New York last week: Climate adaptation is aid. Assistance is climate adaptation. They can't be separated. Making the rest of the world do just like Norway, which is to increase its assistance through climate action in the poor part of the world, is just positive. In the case of asylum-seeking expenditure, this is a point where there is broad international agreement to do so through the OECD. This is a point where we do the exact same thing as the Bondevik government, yes, more than that. It was a higher percentage of the Bondevik government in 2003 that went to Norwegian asylum issues than what goes under our government. I understand that voluntary organizations are somewhat disappointed by this, but when the Christian People's Party comes and criticizes it, it becomes a little bit unlikely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e766	Anne Margrethe Larsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e769	At the 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali, Prime Minister Stoltenberg stood up and received his best regards and applause to promise up to DKK 3 billion a year for rainforest betting, which was great. And yesterday, Minister of Development Solheim came forward and received the tribute and applause to raise the Norwegian aid to 1 pst. of gross national income. Paying for applause twice for the use of the same money is quite smart, but at the same time a rather demanding exercise, demanding because in this case it shows that the government has not managed to honour the promise of using NOK 3 billion a year for rainforest spending, and demanding because the same effort, as a representative said earlier, is also included in the aid budget together with NOK 1.5 billion for the reception of refugees in Norway. Does the Minister for Aid and the Environment find this problematic? And does he not agree that this should have been better communicated when the government sold its Bali promise on the achievement of the 1 pst goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e776	Let me first say in the case of asylum seekers that the reason why it is recognised as assistance internationally - and, I suppose, the reason why the Bondevik government did so, yes, even more than this government - is that it is also a kind of assistance. And the reason for that is, of course, that the flow of money that goes from immigrants back to their homeland is one of the most important flows of money internationally, three times as much as international aid and absolutely fundamental to countries like Nepal or countries in Central America and other countries. So money that immigrants send back is important. That's why it's been considered as assistance. Then I understand that non-governmental organisations are critical, but I don't understand that representatives of the Bondevik government can be critical at this point. As far as climate action is concerned, there are some of the most sensible assistance measures we can come with. Climate change will not hit Norway the hardest. We will primarily be affected by the impact of climate change on the world's poor, who will also come back to us in the form of more refugees or more war and conflict in the world. But it's the effects of climate change on the poorest that are the most dangerous, and that's also why building up their capacity to resist this is one of the most important things we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-08.ana.ud2582e783	The oral question procedure is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
