ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e30	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e33	In doing so, I am delighted to make a proposal by the representatives of Carl I. Hagen and myself on the law on amendments to the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular security - the People's Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e38	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e52	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President has reason to believe that not all speaking time will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e63	I think the President is right about that. I just want to say that this proposal for a representative, promoted by the Progress Party, actually deserves praise, because through this proposal they have caught up with a group that we have not seen. It is about health professionals, a new professional title with a course of vocational training, etc. which was introduced as part of the Knowledge Commitment in secondary school. The starting point is that those following an ordinary course of training will first take a professional test next summer. The government would have had to submit a proposal to that effect during the year. But then there's someone who has so much practice and theoretical knowledge that they can take a professional test right now in ours. Apprenticeships on adult education and traineeships with sufficient practice may be subject to a vocational test as early as spring 2008. This group is safeguarded by the fact that the Progress Party promoted this proposal for a representative, which we immediately addressed here in Odelstinget as a legal matter. I want to praise the Advance Party because they promoted this proposal and captured this group of apprentices, and I am happy that we can make this legislative change now. So I'm not going to say anything more. I don't think there are so many more who should say anything either--perhaps Nesvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e74	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e77	I'm not going to spend that long. I just want to say that the proposal certainly looked plausible at first; it was a relatively small proposal, which might not get the exit it got. But for those that this applies, it's incredibly important. For those who will be able to be trained this summer, it is important that this system is in place when we have said that it should be in place. In this regard, I'm not going to spend any more time, but just say this is a school example of how things can be done if you're looking to find together. I would like to pay tribute to the government parties and the rest of the committee, who have joined the proposal. Now it's actually in place. So our case rapporteur, the Schjellaa, and the department and others here have been willing to see how we can solve a case that might only concern a few, but that's very important to them. It is good that this is now in place for the proposals of the Progress Party to be adopted, and also for all the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e88	It is rare to hear so much praise all ways as in this matter. I would also like to commend the Committee, all those who have supported this proposal and this position, because it is an important matter that has also been discussed by the representatives of Nesvik and Skjellaa. Health-career training is known as a new education and is part of the Knowledge Lift. It's clear that it would have been a little silly-- if it's allowed to say that-- if we hadn't been able to use the resource that's there, as soon as possible. So I'm also very happy and very pleased with what I understand will be adopted later here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e95	Then there is great joy also at the presidential table, because there have been many people who have not asked for the floor in case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footing, see page 535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e111	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e120	It is not intended to destroy the good spirit after the examination of the previous case, but it is now for the business committee to examine Ot.prp. No 35 for 2007-2008, on amendments to the Competition Act, where there is a sufficient gap between the conclusions of the Government and those drawn by the opposition parties. The amendments in question relate to Section 21 on the review procedure in merger cases, Section 18 on the notification of concentration and Section 19 on the enforcement ban in merger cases. The most fundamental proposal is the amendment in Section 21, which means that the Government can jump over the claim for review of the competitive consequences of a merger, and rather go straight to political review, without competitive treatment. The reasons for this proposal are, in my view, reasonably absurd. The government claims that abandoning the professional review process would be a simplification measure and that it is difficult for the outside world to understand today’s approach. Of course, it will be easier for the Government and for the companies that will carry out a anti-competitive merger if the professional assessment requirement is removed. However, the aim of the Competition Act is to ensure an effective use of society’s resources, in particular from the point of view of consumers. It would then be reasonably absurd to present a clear weakening of the legal instruments against anti-competitive mergers as a simplification measure. When it is not even possible for the Government to demonstrate any measurable savings in this respect, this part of the explanation becomes reasonably thin. The claim that today’s appeals procedure is difficult to understand is also met with headshots from all those who have expressed their opinion on this proposal. The Government, on questions from the Committee, has indicated that the Prior-Norgården merger was difficult for the outside world to understand. It is quite right that it was quite difficult for many people to understand the government’s overrun of the Competition Authority in that matter. But it was not the system of review that was difficult to understand, but, on the other hand, the government's conclusion, to give Prior a monopoly on eggs based on a alleged fear of a new WTO agreement. It was a rather incomprehensible and anti-consumer decision. It could also be said that it was reasonably incomprehensible that the Government gave Statkraft a more dominant position in the Middle Norwegian power market. However, the fact that the government’s overrun of the Competition Authority in these cases does not seem logical is therefore no reason to change the appeal procedures for such cases. An overall opposition, like most hearing bodies other than the LO and the Agricultural Cooperation Group, concludes that the proposal lowers the threshold for the political recognition of anti-competitive mergers. This weakens competition policy as a whole. An overall opposition is opposed to the proposal. In such cases, the parties will always claim that the merger does not prejudice competition. If the Government does not carry out the competitive appeal proceedings first and concludes on this side of the case, consumer considerations as an element of any political assessment will be pushed under the carpet. In other words, the amendment of the law makes it more comfortable for the Council of State to fail consumers at the expense of special interests. It is striking that the Government wants to weaken its own decision-making base in such consumer cases. Business is also strongly opposed to such a weakening of the Competition Act. The amendment makes the Competition Act less predictable and more arbitrary. The fear is that the amendment of the law increases opportunities for lobbying and more discrimination. Impaired predictability means that companies will start to assess mergers that would otherwise have been dropped. This removes part of the preventive effect of the Competition Act. The right considers that there are weaknesses in today's appeal-handling system, but will of course go in the opposite direction and strengthen the professional appeal-handling system. We believe that experience suggests a more independent professional handling of appeals, and in this context shows that this was proposed by the Right in Document No. 8:08 for 2006-2007. As regards the extension of the requirement to the content of mergers notifications pursuant to Section 18, this increases the field of business forms. The proposal implies that merging companies must report on the five main competitors also in markets where the merged company has less than 20 pst. market share. An overall opposition is also opposed to this proposal, because we believe it is better to give the Competition Authority a little more resources to even ask for such information than that everyone merging should report more. This is a rather important principleal attitude towards the simplification work, which the Government has done little in this period. With regard to the prohibition of implementation in Section 19, the Committee supports this, although this leads to a slight increase in the burden on business. The change is basically correct, and the government has given good answers to questions about the thresholds that I think are on the right level. In common with the changes in Sections 18 and 19, the impact on business has been assessed to a small extent. And it's unfortunately a review tone in many things that this government is presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e148	We are today discussing changes to four paragraphs of the Competition Act, § 18, 19, 20 and 21. Today, the King of State Council may reverse the decisions of the Competition Authority where the cases have a principle or a major social significance. Nevertheless, one must, as at present, wait for the Ministry's complaint handling on a competitive basis. This may lead to unnecessary use of time and resources in those cases where it is already clear that it is appropriate to reverse any action by the supervisory authorities, due to the principle or major societal importance of the case. The change we are going to adopt here today will make such a transformation possible without the Ministry having handled complaints on a competitive basis. Here it is important to bear in mind that the criteria for using Section 21 will be exactly the same as before, i.e. that it is relevant for the King of the Council of State to transform the decision of supervision only if the matter has a principle or a social significance. The threshold for intervention against anti-competitive undertakings in Section 16 of the Competition Act is unchanged. Therefore, I cannot understand why Right and also the Progress Party is so unlikely to be afraid of this change. This will save you time and will simplify the work of all the parties in such a case. I actually thought there was something that also the Right Party and the Progress Party were some in. I am pleased that these changes make merger policy more clear and understandable, which is particularly important for business. At the same time, therefore, we are streamlining and simplifying the handling of complaints in cases of corporate tax clearance. The second point we disagree on in the committee is the amendments to Section 18 which require companies to submit more information to the supervisory board in connection with the general notification of a merger. The extended reporting obligation will help to improve supervisory information and thus improve the basis for assessing the situation on the market. That's why we're making this change. I see that the opposition is concerned that we are going to demand this from the business community, but I expect companies entering a merger to have control of this information. The decision states that the Progress Party will ensure that the entire food chain is subject to competition law, so that the Competition Authority can control the interests of consumers. The fact that the Progress Party does not see the need to have an exception for agriculture in the competition law surprises no one. We want active agriculture throughout the country, and we want it to produce Norwegian food in the future as well. That's also what consumers were thinking. Primary industries are made up of many small producers, and it is important that they be able to cooperate without conflicting with the laws. I am pleased that a clear majority in Stortinget still believe that agricultural policy should be ahead of competition policy when there is a serious argument for it. I'm glad that the Progress Party is all alone here, too. The Government fraction represents the changes in the Competition Act. They give us a more understandable merger policy, a better basis for supervision to make decisions and a simpler and more efficient case management. The case spokesman said that this government has not made any simplification. If there's anything this government has actually done, it's putting particular emphasis on simplification. It has been very well received in business, and it has been a very important step for simplification overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e169	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done, and say that we are mainly committed to what he said in his article. As we assess it, today's system works well. The fact that the Government now wants political governance and review of the Competition Authority does not surprise us, because it is a scheme that affects consumers in the form of a lower offer and a higher price. This is in line with socialist thinking. What worries us is that you weaken the law. This results in a loss of respect for the law. One also weakens the Competition Authority, because the Competition Authority does not want the independence that in our view it has to have. This may lead to the long-term loss of competence of the Competition Authority and the subsequent loss of respect for competition supervision by consumers and industry, as the Competition Authority will be overestimated by political decisions. The fact that the Government is now proposing to overrun the Competition Authority opens the way for a direct lobbying activity aimed at the Government. This is where big values will be at stake. This is a lot of market power, and it can be said that there will be anti-consumer mergers in the business world. So there will be a few that are going to make big, important, strategic decisions. Clearly, there are many speculations in the future, and there could be grounds for suspecting that there are things going on that ought not to happen at all. So there have been some issues in which the Competition Authority has already been overrun. I will not mention them now, because the rapporteur has done so. But it is quite obvious that what the government is doing now is to facilitate its own pressure groups in the form of agriculture. It is quite right that the Progress Party wants full competition in agriculture. We believe that agriculture does not need the protection provided by agriculture, because it receives more than 20 billion kroner in direct and indirect aid. A healthy competition in agriculture, we believe, would also have served agriculture. In the end, we believe that the Competition Authority should be given a freer position than today's legislation provides, but unfortunately we see that a completely different political direction is being sought from this government. As I said, it's no surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e182	This is to the extent a small matter, but an ideologically interesting matter. Norway is a pluralistic society, characterised by a balance between market governance and policy direction. We have different political parties that focus on this in different ways. I don't think anyone in this staging room wants only market management. I don't think anyone wants pure political governance either. But then the question is, what is it important to run politics, and what is it important for the market to take care of itself? That's exactly the question we're dealing with in this case here. Sometimes we deal with issues of social principle importance, which make it necessary to take political action quickly. That is what we are asking for here. I think some of the quality of Norwegian society is just that we have managed to have political governance in some important areas of society. I think that's the main reason why today we can be proud that we live in what is perhaps the best country in the world to live in. So we have taken political governance, not least over natural resources, and we have taken political direction over decisions in relation to infrastructure and in relation to monetary policy, banking, etc. Those who try to roll over that it's kind of a problem that we have too much social governance, I think I have to go home and take out the history books that stand in the bookshelf, and read a little about what it's partly consensual about in the storeroom. The left was in his time in the driver's seat here. Gradually, other parties have come after - the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and many other parties have joined it to a greater or lesser extent. That is why social governance, the fact that politicians and governments actually choose to take action when necessary, must not be trivialised. On the other hand, it is very, very important that it is done to ensure that you get a social development that you want. And it's still like this. It is not the market that makes choices to be chosen for something. No, it is the politicians, the Stortinget, who make elections and get a mandate from the Norwegian population, and it is a mandate that must be taken care of by actually controlling. That's why, as I said, the proposal that lies here is little, but really very interesting, and it's important that we end it up, so that every government that sits on the table can quickly and effectively implement socially important decisions for the benefit of people and countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e200	First of all, I want to commend the case spokesperson for a good job with this bill. The proposal allows the Government to review the Competition Authority’s decisions on corporate governance on a political basis, without having been subject to a competitive appeal procedure in advance. Thus, the Government lowers the threshold significantly in favour of political review of the proceedings on the closure of enterprises. The Christian People's Party believes that this is contrary to the objective of leading a good and accurate competition policy. It weakens industry's fundamental confidence in competition policy, and it is contrary to the objective of pursuing a clean, good and sound competition policy. If appeals are called for by political arbitrariness, businesses will focus more on political influence rather than on strategies within the framework of competition law. None of our neighbouring countries, cork Finland, Denmark or Sweden, have similar arrangements to those of the Norwegian government. I have also noticed that the Competition Authority believes that there are alternative solutions, for example. the introduction of an independent appeal panel, proposed by the Competition Law Committee in NOU 2003:12, New Competition Act. The government claims that today's appeal-handling procedures, where there is first a professional assessment and then a political assessment, have been difficult for the outside world to understand. Just like a bunch of hearing aids, I'm wondering about this. The Christian People's Party will therefore oppose the Government's proposal at this point. We will also oppose the proposal to oblige the parties to a merger to inform the Competition Authority of the closure of the company by a general notification, because this would result in disproportionate work for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e219	Effective competition law is important for good industrial policy and development. With the changes we are making today, we are helping to improve legislation so that we get a more efficient system for dealing with mergers in business. Furthermore, the process of political review of the Competition Surveillance Authority’s merger decision is also improved. It is important to stress that this will not and will not lower the threshold for policy intervention, but in cases where this occurs, the procedure may be more effective. The amendment to the first paragraph of Section 21 of the Competition Act not only ensures the possibility of dealing with merger issues in a good and professional manner, but also the possibility of saving time and resources in situations where other societal considerations are general and weighing more heavily. It is also in the interests of society that these societal reasons are well established and justified and clearly weighed against competition, which one could now do. This contributes to a more clear policy, while at the same time ensuring the professional basis. For the Central Party, it is important that industry has good and predictable framework conditions and clear rules and that reporting requirements are not unnecessary. This is an important consideration to take into account a comprehensive industrial policy. However, an important part of such a comprehensive industrial policy is a good competition policy. Competition policy shall contribute to the good conduct of all parts of business and to the application of rules to create a level playing field. It is therefore essential that the Competition Authority should be able to make good professional judgements prior to its decisions. Good information is required to be able to make good professional judgements. An introduction of a general notification for the parties to a merger is a way for the supervisory authorities to obtain this necessary information. It is important that this is standardised and that it is easy for companies to obtain the information, which is also emphasised in the proposal. I am pleased that the Ministry has been aware of not giving business obligations that are not well-founded and that the introduction of general notification will not lead to significant cost increases for businesses. At the same time, it is vital that we continue to work to simplify society, not just for the individual consumer, but especially for businesses, so that they can concentrate on creating values. An implementing ban for all reportable mergers is an effective means of controlling mergers. During the hearing, there have been objections to this, due to increased costs associated with the Norwegian thresholds. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken this issue into account, and that the public authorities will follow the experience they have with the amendment of the law and assess the thresholds further. Today’s decisions lead to a better competition policy and thus a better industrial policy. They clear up rules, and emphasis can be placed on the competitive aspect while at the same time contributing to more effective legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e236	I would like to start by commending the rapporteur for a thorough and good job with this setting. We have a government that slowly, but surely changes laws and regulations towards a more closed and regulated state, where more power is transferred to decision-makers in an enclosed space. The amendment of the Competition Act is a good example in this way. The Government will amend the right of appeal in the first paragraph of Section 21 of the Competition Act so that the Government can review the Competition Authority’s decision on merger cases on a political basis without appeal proceedings. As a result, business will increasingly use policy channels rather than set up according to the objectives of the Competition Act. Without appeals, the political decision will not have the necessary knowledge and professional weight to make a decision. The government's best argument for this amendment is simplification without it being able to demonstrate that this will actually lead to enormous resource savings. Paragraph 18, second paragraph, point (e), notification of concentration, is also proposed to be amended. I am not going to repeat the content of the amendment, but I would like to stress that this proposal is not in line with the Government's eagerness to simplify according to the red-green argument for the change in the review procedure. The left, together with the rest of the opposition parties, is pointing to the possibility of strengthening the procedural capacity of the Competition Authority rather than bringing companies more work into action. I notice that the government parties have noticed that concerns have been expressed that the proposed amendments to the Competition Act will impose increased administrative burdens on industry. However, these concerns are quickly eliminated when they refer to the Government's great commitment to simplifying business electronic reporting. Is it the strongly delayed Altinn II version with electronic signing SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party aiming for? To call it a big bet can at best be seen as a bit special. The left will oppose the proposal to amend the first paragraph of Section 21 and point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 18. Finally, I would like to take a little visit to the representative, Ryan, who drew his dosage. It is positive that the representative has a favourable attitude towards the Left. He refers to a period and another time, with dosage options that might have been a little different than today. I'm not sure - the representative Ryan obviously has a good knowledge of, for example, Nord-Trøndelag E-werk, which I also have - that what was right 20 years ago is necessarily the right dosage today. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e255	I am pleased that the majority in Odelstinget today will agree to amend Section 21 of the Competition Act. After the change, it is not necessary to carry out a professional assessment of the Competition Authority’s decision to intervene against mergers when it is quite clear that the Government believes that other societal considerations outweigh the concerns of competition. We have streamlined the use of resources both for the parties to the merger and for the ministry. I have to say, I have a hard time understanding the objections from the opposition to this simplification. Firstly, the criteria for political transformation have not been changed. Such conversion can only take place in matters of ‘princescipal or major societal significance’. Let it be completely clear. Toggles whether the conversion is still allowed only by the King of State Council. I can't therefore understand that the opposition might think that the threshold for overcoming merger cases on a political basis has been lowered, much lowered in importance, to quote comments from the minority. Secondly, I can't understand how the opposition has a basis for believing that the change leads to the government not having a good enough basis for the political treatment. The supervision of competition shall, through the assessment of a merger, make a detailed contribution to the competitive effects of the completion of a merger. It is precisely the monitoring of the harmful effects on competition and society’s use of resources that underpins the supervisory decision. It is thus very well informed by the supervision of its decision. What the government is going to do is weigh them up against other societal considerations. These matters cannot or should not have been assessed by the supervisory authority in its proceedings. The change in Section 21 thus does not lead to the Government having less information to consult for its assessment. If anything, the change will result in the Government having more time and resources for this often difficult balance between the concern for competition and the concern for ‘princescipal or major societal importance’. In this context, I would also like to stress that if there is a situation in the supervision of its decision which requires the Ministry to carry out a full professional examination of the supervisory decision, of course, Section 21 does not preclude it. We can do that, even after this law change. So a few words about business and the desire to push political pressure - which is completely legitimate. Every day in this house, businesses go out and out of the doors to exert political pressure on the different parties' views. This is the case, and it will be so at certain times, in the case of § 21. Norway has the political security valve contained in Section 21. The one we now have, promote the previous government, with a State Council from the Right that centrally gives of the bill. All governments have benefited from that valve. So to the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are concerned that the proposal for amendments to Section 18 will result in the enterprises having to submit more information to the supervision in connection with the general notification of a merger. That's right, but the Competition Authority has informed us that with the system you now have, the supervision needs to ask very much for this information afterwards. In any case, companies usually have to submit this information. But what you're asking for is that the Competition Authority get the information without having to spend time and the power to get hold of themselves, and that it is made a universal duty. The information that companies are asked to submit is often information that they already have or that they can easily obtain. So I mean, and the supervision thinks that this is a little bit to apply to the companies in relation to the simplification and thus the chance of faster processing that this implies for the supervision. What I would like to say is that if a first concerned about merger proceedings and the Government’s view on it, one should at least support under that supervision itself, which can provide more effective merger proceedings and which can provide the correct information for supervision in a timely manner, so that their processing of merger messages can be as effective as possible. I think there's a logical flaw in the argument from some of the parties here to go against that law change, while at the same time criticising the merger process later in the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e278	As several speakers in this debate have pointed out, this Council of State and the Red-Green Government have had a very low threshold for intervention in competition matters. The Progress Party considers this to be fundamentally very worrying, because we need strong competition supervision, which we are totally dependent on in a market economy, which I believe even the Swedish Government wants us to have here in the country, we need to have a competition authority that can intervene against unfortunate business associations that can affect competition. I could imagine asking the Council of State if she at all sees some fundamental concerns by making so-called political decisions in this kind of case and putting the Competition Authority aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e285	I record that the representative Kielland Asmyhr says that the government has a low threshold to intervene against supervision. I would like to remind you that I have intervened under Section 21 once by means of a new law. On the other hand, I have converted two cases on a competitive basis. If you look at the list that I have of what the previous government did, when it put a Right-State Council in my chair for four years, they had as many things as they tried. It was the previous government that provided Section 21 and that chose to continue to have a section 21 that allows politicians to intervene against a merger when other concerns are to be more effective than those of the competition. It should be a high threshold. That is why it also says ‘of principle or great importance for society’. There should be a high threshold, not in itself because of a non-supervisory nature, but because competition law should, of course, be a strong and effective instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e292	I think that both the government council and the government parties are on the edge of the unprofessional when they claim that opening up to the removal of professional appeals is a measure to make the law easier and easier to understand. The representative, Inge Ryan, put a clear word on this. He said it was an ideologically important thing. He said that it opened up to more political governance. The explanation of this is, of course, easy to understand, because the threshold for intervention on a principle and a social basis is extremely diffuse, and the government has put the list extremely low to do so, both in the Prior-Norgården case and in the Statkraft/Trondheim Energy case. It is quite obvious that when the supervision says no to a merger, all the special interests will argue against the competitive justification for it, so that it will almost be powdered in the social debate, and then it will be extremely pleasant for the Government to be able to overrun without having to go through that justification again. My question to the Council of State is: does she not really see that this is a measure that will make it significantly easier for the special interests to lobby through anti-consumer mergers? [[The President announces the Council of State]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e301	No, I'm not. The representative of Hansen is wrong. We have not removed the appeal proceedings on a competitive basis. On the contrary, I said in my post that if the department still finds it necessary to carry out full professional testing of the Competition Authority's decisions, there are still possibilities for this, even with this change. What this change does is that we say that we don't necessarily have to do it when we see that the Competition Authority has done a full professional defense test of the question -- that's what they're going to do -- but when we see that the competitive foundation is against what might be of other social considerations. Let me remind you of the following: I have tried one time after § 21. So if there's an extremely low threshold, which was the representative of Hansen's expression, I would remind you that in two years the previous government used the same paragraph twice, once with district policy foundations, another time with agricultural policy foundations. So here all governments have used the opportunity that the promise gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e310	It is obvious that when there is a free choice for the Government to use a professional appeal procedure or not, it will be easier to review on a political basis. But I want to go over to another question, on which the representative Gunvor Eldegard was in. She said it would be easy for companies merging to report five competitors in each market where they have a market share, regardless of whether they have more than or less than 20 pst. She said that without justifying it in any material way. I note that the government has not carefully investigated it in the proposition either. On the other hand, it has been done by the main business organisation of the business community, and it has been done by the main trade and service industry organisation. In consultation, they have made it clear that this is something that will increase red tape, which will increase the amount of reporting for business. It is quite interesting that the Association of Lawyers also points out that this is something that will give more work in connection with these merger notices. Does the Government really have no interest in or ability to listen to business in that type of simplification issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e321	If the representative of Hansen had been as busy in having a good merger control as the Government and Government Party in the Stortinget are, he would not least have been occupied by the fact that during his 15 short business days, the Competition Authority gets the information they need, in order to carry out a good merger control and to put forward a competitive decision on the merger. What we see today is that the Competition Authority does not necessarily get the information they need, but has to ask for it - and then they get the information. The Competition Authority informs us - I have responded to it in an exchange of letters with Stortinget - that this is easily accessible information that companies have, or can obtain, to a large extent. We believe that the importance of effective merger control must lead to the possible additional burden for business. We recognize that it's an extra burden, but we see that it's not so big that the concern for this is more important than having a good merger control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e330	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Berit Brørby resumed his office here. [[Footing, see page 536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e344	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e471	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e481	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e587	It is first contested in Section 18, second paragraph, points (e) and the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 21. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it. And then the rest of the I and the II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e607	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e617	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05-lower.ana.ud688e629	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
