ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e57	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e60	On behalf of Erna Solberg, Martin Engeset, Elisabeth Aspaker, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I will be allowed to make a proposal to restore and extend the trial scheme with municipal responsibility for the child protection services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e65	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e81	Today, 10 250 disabled Nordics aged 18 to 30 are registered among the 330,000 unemployed in the population as a whole. Only in the last year has there been 2,240 new deaths in the youngest age group. The proportion of young people who are unemployed is increasing. It worries me, and in particular the fact that about one third of these people have mental disorders as the main reason for transferring them to social security. It's worrying. Through the NAV reform, we are now in a period when welfare management is being reorganised and the instruments are changing. It gives us the opportunity to do something about the biases that have developed. I hope today's interpellation debate can be a small element in the extensive work that needs to be done to help young people who are struggling with health, so that their life situation as 17-18-year-olds does not become something they are locked up to through a long life. I also believe, as the Council of State does, on the working line as a leading element of welfare policy. However, in this context, the working line is our responsibility to develop a labour market that also accommodates jobseekers with varying or reduced working capacity. NAV shall provide closer follow-up to the individual and the measures of the auxiliary equipment shall be coordinated. This is the main objective of the NAV reform. Instead of many offices and faces, the user shall meet a coordinated device, which knows his or her history and follows all the way to work, education or, finally, disability. Disadvantage shall be a last resort, but nevertheless a worthy way out and right when it proves to be the right solution. The problem today is that a good deal ends up in disability even if they personally want something different, and even if they have a working capacity that means that they have opportunities in their working life, possibly in combination with social security. Auxiliaries don't have the power to clear the roadblocks. We know that especially young people with mental disorders have had too poor follow-up. The Norwegian Research Council will now carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the NAV reform and will provide us with information on how far we have come to rectify these issues. I do not expect the Council of State to conclude now that the NAV reform has given the answer. But the task of auxiliaries is to ensure that young people who need it get proper medical help and training and work opportunities when they are healthy enough. The mandate of NAV, given by a majority here at Stortinget, is to see the opportunities of the individual and to strengthen their ability to take control of their own lives. However, we cannot just point to NAV. Perhaps we do it a little too often in these times, because the focus is on NAV as strongly as a comprehensive reform. Schools, health services, working life and social policy are only in time in the links of social institutions that can eventually end up in a meeting with NAV when the problems have towered. Ensuring equivalent opportunities for citizens from birth onwards is the universal instrument for preventing social marginalisation. The National Institute for Safety and Health at Work estimates that young people with disabled parents are at three times as likely to get young themselves and that completing secondary school marks a distinction. Today there's a quarter that doesn't complete high school, and a majority of these are boys. Most of the young people with mental disorders are also boys. We need to be much more effective at finding appropriate prevention measures that are implemented at an early age. A study conducted by SINTEF in 2007 showed that a wide range of measures against high school dropouts produced results. The same applies to the numbers from jobs that fulfil the legal obligation to summon all those who have been sick for more than 12 weeks to the dialogue meeting so that the employer, employee and doctor will jointly find measures that can speed up the return of the sick person to work. This type of follow-up may constitute the difference between a youth, who may have a lower threshold than more experienced workers in order to give up his or her career, being given strength to get back to work instead of seeing a long life as a social welfare beneficiary. An ongoing effort to strengthen public health and ensure that psychiatry has the capacity and ability to help young people who need it will also appear on disability statistics. Researchers report that mental disorders are still shameful, and that many people are afraid to seek help. At the same time, working life reports that it is difficult to get involved in the health situation of employees with mental health problems. It also testifies to the need for change of attitude. We have a labour market that needs labour, but that demands success to such an extent that it disqualifies a number of us from getting into work. This does not make the situation easy for a case handler in NAV, who will try to communicate the same persons into good working conditions. The alternative can often be a long round dance in a series of labour market measures, which ultimately only reinforces the image of a disqualifying rather than a qualifying CV. As politicians, it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that not only is the number of labour market measures that count, but also that the measures are so good that they actually lead to qualification and opportunities for normal work. Too many young people have been reduced in the face of school, health, employment and working life. Too many people feel that their abilities are not seen in this process. They express arrogance because they lack a social work life that gives self-confirmation, but they, like all of us, want to contribute to their own income and their own living. And it's our challenge to get them an opportunity to do that. These young people deserve to be able to stand up and know that they need to hurry to something they experience as necessary and meaningful. As a society, we can't afford not to give them that opportunity either. There are many, many community heads saved if we can do this. Our new welfare office, the NAV offices, which in about a year and a half will be in all municipalities - they are still under development, we need to be aware of it once in a while when we talk about them - cannot do the job alone. They must build alliances with working life, school and health. Among other things, we must: develop better mechanisms to ensure the follow-up of young people leaving high school. It is very gratifying to read in the evening post today that the ‘Spabel project’, which is just targeted at this group of young people, has now signed an agreement with NAV on the financing of several hundred sites in its actions. I also know that the management companies believe that they can do a job for young people who need alternatives to the ordinary course of education, but that it requires better cooperation with the states as school owners. We know that child and youth psychiatry must strengthen its ability to meet children and young people at risk with timely action. In my interpellation, I ask the Council of State whether he believes that the reforms that are under way will ensure a better interaction between the health and welfare services, so that young people with mental disorders can become more likely to enter education and work rather than to be disembarked. I hope the Council of State can respond positively to that, and that the cooperation we have decided to establish across the boundaries of social security, employment and social security, will also be accompanied by a significantly better interaction with school, healthcare and work. It is this whole thing that is necessary to give more young people opportunities for a future where they can experience themselves as included and valued citizens, and that can lead us finally to see a disability statistics that point downwards instead of upward, in a situation where we do not fully understand why the numbers should go up when the labour market is like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e104	The interpellant points to what is a very important issue related to the increase in the number of young people who are infirm, and in particular the increase in the number of young people who suffer from mental illness. I am very concerned that we set up health and welfare systems so that young people can be in education and work as much as possible when appropriate and they want it for themselves. I have great faith that the reforms we are now implementing and the measures taken will contribute to a more inclusive working life and that they will provide a better basis for the necessary coordination between health care and labour and welfare management. I am informed that there is no evidence that overall there is an increased incidence of mental illness in the population. We don't know enough about the causes of the growth of disability renunciation due to mental disorders. We need to get more knowledge about that. I have not intended to speculate for possible reasons, because regardless of the reasons for development, it is important that employees in the management of labour and welfare have knowledge and competence that helps to support and develop individual resources and plans for education/work and help for self-help. This applies not least when they assist users with mental illness and complex needs. Both for occupational and welfare management and for healthcare, the law now provides for individual rights and obligations for those who need coordinated assistance over a period of time. An important objective of the NAV reform is to provide better framework conditions for user follow-up and to provide a comprehensive range of services to the individual. In addition to the organisational reform, we are in the process of making several major changes to the legislation as a follow-up to St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion. The NAV reform shall ensure that the overall apparatus of labour and welfare management is better coordinated. An organisational framework is thus established to provide a better basis for catching up people who have difficulties in getting into work, including young people who are disabled. Experience shows that many people with mental disorders fall out in the process of reintroduction. Many in the target population also need treatment services in parallel with the route of reintroduction. The new system of redundancy payments will provide greater flexibility in relation to the content of the individual’s process against work, thereby providing a better opportunity to adapt the situation of the user at all times, whether under medical treatment and/or reintroduction. The interpellant discusses the cooperation between the health sector and the management of labour and welfare. Last autumn, the Minister of Health and I launched a national strategy plan for work and mental health for the years 2007 to 2012. Through the strategy, we want to build a bridge between labour and welfare management and the health sector, thereby helping to ensure an overall public effort to maximise the use of resources in the workplace by people with mental disorders and to facilitate the provision of services and measures. The national strategy plan for work and mental health identifies several measures to help people with mental health problems get into work. Among other things, the Employment and Welfare Unit works to create its own guidance and follow-up unemployment for people with mental health problems and disorders. One of the key tasks of the job losses will be to follow up and guide the individual with mental health problems, employers and others dealing with the individual with mental health problems. The Roadmap for Mental Health has expanded services both in municipalities and in the specialist health service. An important contribution to the escalation plan is information and information activities to contribute to greater transparency in mental health. It has been aimed at reaching children and young people, among others. through the ‘Psychiatric health at school’ programme, which is a training programme specifically organised for teachers and students. The government has notified St.meld. No 20 for 2006-2007, the National Strategy to Balancing Social Health Differences, to further strengthen school health services. This is an important prevention measure to reach young people with mental disorders. There is clearly a need to systematise and improve cooperation between school, labour and welfare management and the health sector, and to strengthen the interface to the labour market. It is important to ensure that people with mental disorders are caught at an early stage. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Federation of Municipalities and Local Governments have concluded an agreement to strengthen cooperation between the State of Labour and Welfare, the counties and municipalities on services and actions in the field of education. The aim is to increase the number of people involved in work or education, and the agreement will help to improve the implementation of training and other services for groups responsible for both municipalities, county councils and the State of Labour and Welfare. Finally, I would like to say that both the national strategy plan for work and mental health and other measures are aimed at ensuring good and relevant work and health-oriented actions and services for individuals. Furthermore, these measures shall ensure good competence in work and mental health in the workplace and in the public service. At the same time, I am aware that this is demanding and challenging for those who work with people with mental disorders for daily, with mental health work in the municipalities, at district psychiatric centres, at local NAV offices or in other agencies. I hope and believe that the efforts we are now making will contribute to the inclusion of young people with mental disorders to a greater extent than today in working and social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e127	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and it proves that there is work to be done, not only by solving the challenge through the NAV reform, but also by making continuous efforts to find solutions across the board. In this context, I refer not least to the strategy plan signed by the Minister of Health and Labour and the Minister of Inclusion to focus on work and mental health. The Councils of State indicated three possible explanations for the increase in the growth of disability in young people with mental illness. He says that there may be something that has to do with diagnostic practice. He points out that the health care system captures these better than before, and that there can be one relationship. I hope that's the case-- it'll be valuable. Then, the Council of State also pointed to factors related to working life. I'm going to focus on that in my comment, because I just think that factors related to work are so important that we're going to get on with this that there's special reason to focus on it. It is also a special challenge for NAV, which I feel in a way a relationship with all the time it belongs to the labour and social field. A DeFacto report concludes that in order to achieve the objective of the NAV reform, it does not mean that young people with disabilities want to get into work and that NAV can qualify them for it. The employer’s side must also want to hire them. In other documentation - I left it down - it refers to a phone survey MMI has done for the Mental Health Council, where employers are asked about their attitudes. Then I think it was the way the large majority of employers say that they see the responsibility for having an inclusive working life that also helps workers with mental disorders to keep their job, or come to work, but there is a small minority, or only a third, of employers who say that they will personally be able to imagine that employees they know have mental disorders, or -- and that's worse -- are treated for mental illness. It is such a great deal of uncertainty in the work of this group of people that it is in itself a huge challenge that we have to face and that becomes a special challenge, of course, for NAV, but also for us politicians to focus on. I thank you for the answer, which shows that something is happening here, and that there is systemicity in the work to get closer to solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e138	I agree with the representative Sundsbø that it is right in any case of us, I mean the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and the Labour and Social Committee, to focus very strongly on working life when we are going to meet these challenges. I think, and experience it this way, that really there are a lot of employers who have quite positive attitudes, they want to try. They're not repudiating on a principle basis, but what they're saying to me is that all these financial support schemes are fine. It helps make it easier for them to give people a chance. But what many people say is that they want there to be someone they can call when they feel that there are challenges and problems in everyday life. In this way, it will be exciting to follow this work of setting up guidance and follow-up solutions. They should be free of people who have a mental illness and who are going to try out in the workplace, but it should also be a person who is there for the employer, and with whom the employer can have a dialogue if he feels that it is a matter of concern when things are going well and when things are not going well. Just building up an apparatus around these financial support schemes will be very exciting to follow. Then we have to admit that there is a lot of faith and doubt here. It strikes me that the more I work with the social policy area, to call it a little bit broad, that this isn't very much basic systematic research over time that can give us exact knowledge. Therefore, I believe that some of what we now need is to strengthen research efforts in the workplace and the way in which working life works. What leads to exclusion, and what leads to inclusion? How can we use systematic knowledge to make sure that the measures we are taking are good enough? My impression is that there is no lack of schemes, but there is a shortage of resource people to follow up both users and employers who are in existing schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e149	At the beginning of December last year, we had an interpellation debate here in the Chamber that was about the apparent paradox in that Norway is the country in the OECD area that spends the most money on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, while at the same time we are among those who have the highest number of deaths in our part of the world. We were concerned with many possible reasons, and researchers point out that it has become more difficult for people with health problems to live up to the demands of working life. We are talking about exclusion or exclusion, and that there have been new diagnostic groups, but also that many people with disabilities and health problems would like to work, in whole or in part, but will not be able to do so. It may be due to everything from purely discrimination in the workplace to slightly diffuse, unreflected attitudes that health disorders are not as productive as others, to a lack of knowledge of rules and support schemes that employers can use to facilitate a job. Today, we are discussing the situation of some of those who are perhaps the most difficult to deal with, the young people who are struggling with mental problems, who have a lack of treatment and a suffering that, unfortunately, is still partly preoccupied with shame, although this has probably started to improve. Now one is going to be a little bit careful in grading people's problems, but yet I dare say that both for the individual and for society as a whole, it's almost worse that young people are unretired before they've even started their adult life than that well-adults are retiring after many years of working life. So if you're dependent on targeting efforts and concentrating resources, this is a group that points out as an important target group. I also think that the current government has shown that these problems are being taken seriously, through all the measures that have now been taken and that are in the process of being implemented. The Council of State stated that it does so both in its own system and in interaction with the health services in terms of work and mental health, so that interventions are introduced into early school age. However, it remains an important challenge, which the interpellant also had to face, namely to ensure a good interaction between health services and welfare services, ensuring that the service is in place in a timely and cross-sectoral manner. So to this group we're talking about now, and as the council was talking about, we don't know enough, but we know a little bit. We know that there has been a steady increase in the number of young people unemployed since the 1990s, and if we look at the benefits of disability pension, rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the context, we see that there has been a rather significant growth. Most people end up with a full disability pension, and over half of them -- the young -- have mental disorders as a diagnosis. If we go to the group 25 years and below, there is an even greater proportion who have mental illness as a diagnosis. Few have education beyond high school. They have little professional experience. When they are disabled, they have almost no income other than disability pension. It is only the group of chromosomal errors that have lower incomes as well as disability pensions than those with mental disorders. Then there are rather uncertain indications as to why more young people get disabled, but one important explanation is that the ones we're talking about here, have actually not pulled footholds in the workplace, so they're hard to get back. We're talking about exclusion, which may make it harder to bring them back than those who are outlawed and who have had a base in the workplace in the past. Some people might say that the disability pension for young people is too favourable, but studies show that the young people themselves are not very satisfied with life. ‘Loneliness’ and ‘chainness’ are words that go back in their feedback, and it is also true that when loneliness and boredom are what dominate everyday life, you easily get into an evil spiral, where mental disorders are also amplified, and for some, the outcome of it may also be completely fatal. While there are no better performances initially as the solution for this group, unfortunately, studies show that there is a meeting with the auxiliaries that may be the most problematic. They feel stamped. They feel that the interaction in the meeting with the welfare movement is the hardest, and the result is a weakening of self-understanding and a reduction in belief in our own abilities and opportunities, that is, the opposite of what we really want to achieve. However, the same surveys also show that the employer is initially positive, but they do nothing special to implement inclusive measures at the workplace. The point of light is that both of these things - both the operation of the auxiliary device and concrete inclusion measures at a workplace - have something to do with. Public employers should feel a special responsibility here, and the new reforms should provide opportunities and a space for action. Then it's a political responsibility to keep track of the results being achieved, and I feel sure that the Council of State -- or maybe you should say the relevant Councils -- will take it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e168	Let me first of all thank the interpellant for addressing a very big and complicated, but also important, question. We got a good insight into that when we heard the interpellant's posts, and also when we heard the Council's answers, because it's not just some simple magic formulas that are needed to get a better everyday life for young people and those with mental disorders. If we go back a few years in time, we also had a big debate on this, which was also part of, among other things. Set up of the Sandman Committee. The Sandman Committee pointed out that employers should perhaps be much more good at facilitating people with mental health problems, but also for those outside the labour market, i.e. a better inclusion. So you can always ask the question, Have you got there today? Have you received the optimal inclusion? Do you have a good enough job for young people who suffer from mental illness? I'm afraid we don't have it. Now I don't know statistics for the past few years, but I'm sure the Council of State can correct me. If we go back to the beginning of 2000, at least statistics show that only 40 pst. of young people aged between 20 and 24 have received an offer of employment-oriented recruitment. They have therefore been disabled without a job-oriented rehabilitation offer. When we know that one of the criteria for getting disability benefit is that reintroduction should have been tried, I think it's a little bit of a worry that there are so many in this group who don't even get an offer, but are put directly on disability benefit. It causes them to come into a situation where they are condemned to have - as the representative Christoffersen was in - a life of poor income and to be among those with the lowest income, without having the opportunity to get into a working situation in order to improve their ability to earn. Then also my question becomes to the Council of State, a question that I also asked him in the Questionnaire for a while ago: what is the situation today in terms of recruitment places for young people with mild mental disorders? Do we have a lot of backplaces, or do we still need a bigger effort in this area to get more places, so that we get a good enough offer that we can actually offer reintroductions to young people instead of disability? I think that might be the best way to limit even new cases of disability. I think all the political parties are working for this. I do not doubt that the Council of State also focuses on this every day, and I think we still have to focus on it. I think one of the solutions might have been that the next step would be to get a separate qualification programme through the NAV system in order to avoid young people in this situation becoming dissatisfied - i.e. a separate qualification programme to follow up young people with mental illness, so that they are not left out of the labour market, but that action and perhaps an action plan should be taken to help them in such a situation. In conclusion, I think the figures I referred to from around the year 2000 are alarming, and that is not a situation that we should be satisfied with. That is why I also hope, if not that the offer has improved considerably in the last two years, that it will also do something about it and get a more targeted and professional job offer for young people with mental health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e185	Unfortunately, the growth in the number of disabled people in Norway has not slowed down, as we have all been concerned about. Nevertheless, there is a strong growth in the number of new malformations, and the most alarming is the growth in the number of young malformations. The inter-pellant must therefore be commended for raising this debate. It's important. In fact, this development needs to be reversed. In these days we talk a lot about sustainability in welfare to ensure future generations the same benefits that we have. It's a very central goal to make sure that anyone who can and will work actually participates in the world of work. That's the situation. Everyone who was dissatisfied at an early age has had a desire to do something completely different. They have had the same goal of life as all of us, namely a life of work, security, leisure and expansion. When a person is under 30 years of age, it must be because all other measures have been tried and have not proved to be sufficient. Imperfection of young people under 30 years of age must be an absolute last resort. I have registered that the representative Karin Andersen and others in the government party SV say that they are tired all of the talk about unemployees who do not come back to work, and claim that disability is the nobility's mark of well-being. Although I am glad that we have a system for people who, for health reasons, cannot be helped back to work, I am convinced that none of those who are under 30 years of age feel that they are being raised. I'm sure of that. On the contrary, a recent report by De Factor shows that many of those who are ill-satisfied with young people want a daily life in which they contribute and experience mastery, and they appreciate their demands. All of these people deserve a new chance. What I really perceive is that Karin Andersen is really saying, is that young people who have had disability should be at peace, and that any assessment of the individual's opportunities, desires and needs should be closest to stigmatizing to those who receive social security. I will not accept such an attitude. I do not want the welfare society to say to young people that they are permanently stamped out of participation in working and social life. We should also ask ourselves questions about what is the most stigmatizing: giving up young people by telling them that they are not expected to ever provide something to society, or offering proper rehabilitation and rehabilitation services, in line with what the individual needs. The newspaper could tell about Geir Sindre Ringdal on Monday, February 18. As a 21-year-old, he was hit by a stroke during a military exercise. When he woke up, he was paralyzed in half his body. The offer from NAV was a job intended for mentally retarded people. When I read his story, it is clear that the NAV reform has a way to go before all the goals of getting people from social security to work become reality. We can all be hit by the unexpected, and we all expect help to get back to normal life. But seeing young, motivated and resourceful people put screws in a plastic bag instead of being offered a setup of school, qualification and higher education is both shocking and sad, but unfortunately nothing new. Similar stories about how the helper meets some young people, as a politician, I hear a lot of them. Another prerequisite for young people suffering from mental illness to have a new chance rather than disability is that we must have a health care system capable of treating people. The proportion of young people in Norway today who report having mental problems is high. Often it is not about serious rashes, but that the time it takes to get into a treatment course has long-standing adverse effects. Psychiatric disorders, like all other disorders, must be treated as quickly as possible. For this reason, on several occasions the Right has made proposals here in the United Kingdom to provide rapid health care, for example. by shortening the path to psychological treatment. These are proposals that I consider to be in line with what the interpellant has signalled the wish. I also record that the Government has now announced - despite the fact that the government parties voted against a few months ago - a trial scheme with the right to medical attention for psychologists. Finally, I just want to point out the fact that the numbers we now see for the alarmingly high proportion of young people dropping out of high school are not a particularly uplifting signal of the evolution that we might have in store for. It's too many times the beginning of a sad development that we have to take on the deepest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e200	I am pleased with a very important and necessary debate, which was also factual and good until the representative Engeset took the floor. What I've said about disability is that I'm tired of hearing that it's the disability that's the problem, and that people should be given a bad conscience to be sick and ill. I've addressed that, and I'm going to keep doing that. There is a lack of proper health care at the right time, help against violence and abuse in the home and in close relationships, early help when you get drug problems, help from child protection, rehabilitation of the right quality and at the right time and a work life that does not accept you, which is the problem - not that people get something to live from when they do not get work and are sick. If I were to twist what anxiety said, in a just as malicious way as what he wants to twist what I say, that he wants to give people one chance, I think he's relatively greedy. People who are sick and suffer from mental disorders should be given many more opportunities than one to return to work. Because people can get better. I think it's very important to remember that part of the mental illness we see in society, it takes time to get good. That means that we can't have a vision that means that if you get sick once and fall out of work, it's once and for all. It is therefore extremely important that NAV also gradually have the means and tasks to ensure that those who have been disadvantaged and want to return to work also have access to the instruments available. We have a working life that's been a big change. I think there's some of the problems people are experiencing today. Knowledge and competence requirements have increased, not least in the social field, and we need to be able to deal with different people and masters of rapid change. It may be one of the problems that makes it more difficult for people with mental problems to fit into their working life today. We need to look at this, including employers in the public sector - state and municipality - who are large employers and who have to take responsibility in this area. Getting young is not attractive. There's no situation anyone wants to get into. What is characteristic is, as others have said here: little education, please a little job, low income and poor health. They have a very curved way into work. They are met by stereotyped attitudes also in the auxiliaries, and they lose courage and motivation. Nordlandsforschung presented a report on this in 2007 and the Oslo High School examined and found out how sick people are when they do not get into the labour market, whether they are on social assistance, as many of these young people do first, or they end up in dissatisfaction. It is a knowledge summary called ‘Preliminary intervention in the field of drugs’, which was made by the International Research Institute in Stavanger, which clearly shows that early intervention and assistance to children and families who are struggling with drug abuse and mental health problems are helping. I think that is very important, and in particular that we get this cross-cutting, sectoral cooperation between child protection, health care, working life, school and education, because we know that it is possible to help, and it is easier to help its former intervention. But that doesn't mean that you shouldn't use much stronger tools even when people get into such a situation when they're out of that system. The study from Nordic research also shows that there is a very critical transition between school and work. Therefore, I believe it is important to look at how to link these young people to working life much earlier. The mob project, which is now under way, which has been mentioned before today, is such a link and the recovery companies with e.g. The measure PIA, which we have discussed here before. Durable work can be a good opportunity for young people with mental problems, precisely because it may take time to recover, and you can be in a work situation that is a little more protected for a period of time. The Qualification Programme has been mentioned, and this has also been mentioned by the Council of State with regard to the use of unemployed persons in the labour market. I believe that very much, precisely because I believe that some employers do not only have negative attitudes, but feel very uncertain about how they should deal with this in practice. Then I think such a ransom scheme can provide a security for both the employee and the employer, which means that far more people will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e221	I think there's one trap that we're going to be good at not getting into when we're discussing the big challenge that's being addressed in today's interpellation. The trap is saying: the answer is the NAV reform, what was the question? The interpellant problemed in a good way. He took a lot of angles of incidence and thought completely. I think that's positive. Let me make it explicitly clear that the Christian People's Party supports the NAV reform. Through the work done in the previous government and follow-up in the Storting during this period, we feel ownership of the reform. We believe in pooling resources and instruments and getting work-oriented measures started early. We also believe that this will have positive effects on the possibility of providing targeted assistance to people who are struggling with mental illness at an early age. However, we do not believe that this is sufficient, that the reform itself ensures that the number of young people with mental disorders who end up with long-term unemployment is falling sharply. Nor do we believe that the qualification programme is the great sedentary, sedentary one, even though it is also a reform that is still worth supporting politically. I think we should ask ourselves the question more than before: What thresholds - or walls - do people with mental disorders experience meeting before or during a treatment and rehabilitation scheme? Do these walls cause them to isolate themselves and end up in a bad spiral? Then, on an objective basis, we can agree or disagree on how high the walls are. It is the subjective perceptions of the individual that, after all, determine whether to seek or drop out of treatment. The representative Lise Christoffersen stressed the loneliness and boredom that many young people feel. This question is also the starting point for the concrete proposals for actions submitted by the Christian People's Party, for which today's interpellant case rapporteur. It was not to answer Dagfinn Healthy questions today that we submitted these proposals. But we think that the interpellant will also be able to find at least some answers here. Neither are these sedentary, sesame solutions to demanding and complex problems, but they point forward, and it usually tends to be the right direction. The thresholds or walls may be several: major economic concerns in everyday life meet with a treatment or management device where one feels small and where one experiences losing control with one’s own life meeting with many different ‘specialists’ who should influence the content of the rehabilitation process unnecessarily red tape about needs such as: use of medications prescribed by doctors who lack competence as to how the disease situation is actually experienced in those who are contact points of the medical or occupational auxiliaries; I am pleased that the Council of State so strongly clarified this in its answer that he also paid great attention to the need for more research-based knowledge in this area. Many people with mental disorders experience this as the most real obstacles that in no way stimulate self-activity or give hope of returning to normal life. Maybe that's why the number of people who say they haven't received a proper treatment offer is so alarmingly high? It was probably no exhilaration for our proposals in the letter of reply that the Council of State sent to the Committee, but we should sit down and look at and go through the objections. Someone could be real, we shouldn't ignore that, but we're not going to discuss this in more detail today. The first play is held by the rapporteur, Mr Sundsbø. I will end with a challenge: let's try to tone down structures and organisational reforms in the public sector and shift it to the main question: how does the situation for those involved feel? What do they themselves feel are the biggest obstacles? If we take the time to find answers to those questions and do something about it, it can make a clear difference to the better for the individual and for the disability statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e258	The representative, Mr Sundsbø, is raising an important debate on the fact that more and more than 30 years are being lost. As the representative pointed out, today more than 10,000 young people aged 18-30 are disabled. Only the last year has reached 2,241 in the youngest age groups. This is left-wing worry. In the last generation, there were opportunities for school rents to move straight into practical occupations, go to sea or do other practical things. Today, everyone through the same theory mill, which can be devastating to many who are more practical. This is too much to weaken the motivation to go to school. In my own county, Nord-Trøndelag, it's 40 pst. more young disabled men than five years ago. NAV Director Jostein Solberg said in Trønder-Avisa on 2 February that far more boys than girls are not going to complete high school. For that group, there is a greater risk of not getting a job, and there are many problems, he says. Many also point out that getting a profession can help reduce the problems. There is a challenge here not only for school but also for the health services and NAV to see an interaction. It is important to get into the process early for these young people. Walking a long time outside the profession weakens young people's self-confidence. In a report by De Facto, ‘CV: Young and Deaf’, it becomes, among other things: Note that through the course many young people have had a reduced belief in their own abilities and opportunities, which means that they consider reactivation more or less desirable and real. Previous studies have pointed to interaction problems, and many of the failures in this report describe their situation as negative. This shows that few people find it satisfactory to enter into a passive life as a social worker. With that outside of it, it's understandable that many people will be struggling with mental disorders. A system shift with emphasis on flexibility and more practical training is needed for the more intellectually weak students. There is also a need for a change of attitude, where young men are more likely to use their own powers to get out of a passive life. This is not primarily about society needing these people in the labour market - it does too - but about restoring dignity and self-respect for the people involved. Experimental project with practical letters and other alternative learning venues that are more project-oriented but do not remove students from school can be a solution for too many people. The left will work to ensure that such and similar projects see the light of day, so that more young people who are currently outside the labour market are given an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e282	Thank you for the debate, and thank you for your commitment. Now the last representative of Skkelstad, but also several others, has pointed out that among those who fall out and do not complete further education, approx. 1/4 of the students, we have a lot of people in the group we're talking about, that's the group that's later recruited for disability, which may also have mental disorders and be recruited for disability for that reason. So we should focus on how we can reach that group while they are still in a life situation where they feel that there is hope, that there are opportunities. If we can reach them then, a lot can be done. I am pleased with the assessment of the representative Lise Christoffersen. I understood that she meant -- and Engeset supported it -- that there's something we're going to put resources on, that's something we should really feel the need to put in heavy shells and resources, that's just the category of young people who are out of work. For they come in a life situation that is utterly hopeless, and that can last a long, long life, with very low incomes. They go into a situation that is simply one of the most difficult things you can imagine starting your life with. I also agree with the representative, Eriksson, who says that it is important that we meet these groups with the intention of using labour market measures and reintroducing them as an instrument to give them a new chance. That's what we're going to get back to in budgetary work, where at least we're going to be involved in prioritizing just re-entry and labour market measures in order to meet the group that doesn't get into normal working life. That's who we're talking about here, that's who we need these places for, and we don't need budget cuts in that area next year either. The representative Karin Andersen pointed out this about transition between school and work, that this is where we have to do something. I fully agree with her assessments. My interpellation or the exposure we're going to have must never be a frontline against ill people being given disability benefits, for them to be given income insurance. Then we have destroyed for ourselves, and then we have destroyed for those we are going to help. The focus shall be on those who quickly end up in a situation in which we pass on them as social security beneficiaries instead of putting resources in place to give them opportunities in a course of work and education. That's what's our challenge. In this context, the Council of State and Andersen showed that perhaps there is something we have to do, to give more than one unemployed person into the world of work, or to give more than one unemployed person into the world of work and education. I was at Nordhordland's industrial service last Monday. They just pointed to the possibility they see of outsourcing students, who receive a continuous follow-up and then feel that employers are much more positive about being part of providing opportunities and trying out. So that's hope! The interpellant debate doesn't give you a summer, but an eternal commitment does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e297	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e300	I also think it has been an interesting debate. I take the floor first and foremost to answer two specific questions that the representative Eriksson asked me. The first question was whether we have enough re-entry space. To that it is well to say that it will always be that we could have thought to have even more. But the situation today is that if you see the number of re-entry sites in relation to the number of re-entry sites, we have a very high level from a historical point of view. I also believe that it is important now to be aware that the distinction between action places for people with disabilities and action places for ordinary jobseekers is on the way, so here NAV has the opportunity to move resources from more regular action places to reintroduction if necessary. So I think that with regard to the issue we're discussing today, there's not the number of action areas that will solve the challenge the interpellant is addressing. Then there is probably more of a question of whether we have enough space for action, and whether we have space for action that works well enough in quality. So Eriksson raises the question of a separate qualification programme to follow up young people with mental disorders. To this it is important to say that young people with mental disorders are, of course, warmly welcome as participants in the qualification programme established. It's not like people with mental disorders are locked out of it. The entry-level criterion for the qualification programme is that social assistance is either provided as a means of securing income or at risk of living in a situation where economic social assistance must be provided and can benefit from labour-oriented measures. It is quite obvious, in my opinion, that many of those who have fallen out of school, are living from economic social assistance and have mental disorders, are in the core group that should be included in a qualification programme. So I can't quite understand that we need our own qualification program for people with mental disorders. We have a qualification program. If you live on things other than economic social assistance, it is fully possible within, for example, the work clearance money that will now be provided to facilitate special arrangements aimed at this group. Otherwise, I agree, at the end of the day, that the transition from school to work is a central point on which we need to focus. I showed in my main post that we have concluded an agreement with the Municipalities' Central Association just to cooperate better with the education authorities at the critical times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e311	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e327	The Fattignorge Association deserves commendation to focus on the poor here in the country. This time, there are major differences in social assistance payments. Together with the Trade Union and Jussbuss, the association published in February this year a report asking the municipalities for social assistance rates. The response of the municipalities indicates that there are large differences in social assistance rates between municipalities and municipalities. Karasjok has the highest rate of living, at SEK 5 763, Ullensvang is the lowest with NOK 3074. There could be variations of no less than 116 pst. in the case of a lump sum with a resident child between one and three years of age. It assumes that child benefits, additional child benefits, child contributions and cash support are taken into account. The reason for the differences is that the income and expenditure calculations for living are made on the basis of different criteria. One municipality may, for example: count child benefits, child contributions and cash support as income, while others do not. Furthermore, there is a big gap in what is considered as eligible medical and medical costs. The report states that low rates do not only have a negative impact on the quality of life of recipients. It also helps to reduce the possibility of self-driving, and the beneficiaries become more involved in the social system. Debt problems are one of the elements mentioned in the report in this context. Moreover, according to the report, low rates increase the number of applications for smaller amounts to, for example: clothing, and thus a more demanding procedure. Nor are there any municipalities that have carried out a sound assessment of their own living rates using budgets and shopping lists. Various problems related to contact with NAV are also reported. The Christian People's Party believes there should be a low threshold to apply for social assistance, and there should not be stigma attached to this. The rate of residence shall be sufficiently high to provide a reasonable income and basis for a decent life. At the same time, it is important that benefits should be temporary and not become so large that they significantly weaken the motivation for finding employment. This is important to emphasise, because all experience suggests that the poverty problem in Norway is mainly about those who are out of work. Unfortunately, it is not a small group of people receiving social assistance - 116 000 people in 2007, to be exact. The figures show a positive downward trend, but there are still too many, especially with today's strong Norwegian economy. It's particularly serious, in my view, that as many as 8 pst. of all persons between the ages of 20 and 24 are beneficiaries of social assistance. The proportion of long-term recipients does not decrease either. The Christian People's Party believes that social assistance rates should be designed on the basis of an individual assessment based on social professional assessments under the Social Services Act. The country’s indicative rate of residence shall be followed. That's why we have it. At the same time there shall be a certain room for municipal discretion in the determination of benefits. It's e.g. of course that the housing aid varies between the different municipalities, depending on the different housing costs from central press areas to peripheral areas, and must therefore be excluded. It is serious when the report of the Fattignorge, the Trade Union and Jussbuss points out that the assessment of the other aid elements varies so much. With the differences we see in benefits today, it's hard to see that the differences are due to something other than different local economies. The Christian People's Party believes that it is totally unacceptable for the local economy to determine the amounts of social assistance payments rather than an individual social evaluation. It is not in accordance with the intention of the Social Services Act. It is particularly sad that there is a picture that many municipalities suffer from problems with the municipal economy at a time when the Norwegian economy is going very well, and in a situation where the government has assured that the transfers to the municipalities are at a satisfactory level. Yesterday, there were some positive figures from the SSB that eight out of ten municipalities reported that their 2007 social assistance code covered all the expenditure recommended by the State to cover them. This is a clear growth from last year, when only half of the municipalities covered these expenses. But still, one of the five municipalities in this country does not cover the expenditure that the state is making to cover them. If the municipalities can't live up to the state norm now in these rising times, when are they going to do it? For the Christian People's Party, it is especially important that social assistance takes account of the children. It is disappointing that so many municipalities choose to count child-oriented benefits such as child allowances and cash support as income, which is thus deducted from the total payment. This means that these welfare systems are really being tested and reduced for those who may need the most, while everyone else gets the pleasure of the schemes completely regardless of income. At least I have trouble seeing the logic of it. The Christian People's Party believes that child-oriented benefits such as child allowances and cash support are to be excluded from the calculation of income and do not provide the basis for deductions of payments. This is supported by the civil ombudsman, Arne Flivet, who said to the evening post on 19 February: ‘The Ministry should get a little of each one to think about. We need to be sure that children do not suffer damage to this system, which is why the benefits of children are very important.’ [[...]] [[...]] The civil ombudsman is also in line with the Christian People's Party when he points out how unreasonable it is that the rates of the municipalities also vary with regard to the costs of illness. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that social assistance is aimed at those who are struggling with disease, not least with mental disorders. The report shows that some municipalities have specialities of up to NOK 600 per person. month of medical and medical expenses. With a income equal to the country's lifelong guidance rate for the lone population of NOK 4600, NOK 600 actually becomes NOK 13 pst. of the monthly income. In addition, if you are so unlucky to have bad teeth and large amounts of dental treatment, the situation may be quite precarious. Here are the accumulators of up to NOK 3000 per year. years in some places. It shouldn't be like that. The sum of this is that social assistance in many municipalities is unreasonably low. It's not in line with the goal that everyone will have enough to live a decent life. It also gives cause for concern if this is what the report suggests, that the low rates contribute to debt problems and other challenges that make it more difficult to become self-driving and get to work. The government promised to eliminate poverty here in the country. It's black on white in the government's own Soria Moria statement. It was just a matter of will, it was said. Now this promise is cancelled. The head of the Labour and Social Committee, Karin Andersen, of SV, went out in the evening post on 19 February and said that she reacted to many of the municipalities deem the child-related benefits to be income, resulting in deductions. But we've seen many times that what biging representatives of the red-green parties say is one thing, another is what the government means. My question to State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is therefore: Is the Government satisfied with today's discrimination and partly very low social aid rates, or will it take action to create a system that provides support based on individual needs rather than residence address?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e381	There are important questions raised by the representative Woie Duesund. The background to these questions is a report by the Fattignorge, Trade Union and Jussbuss Association, which documents differences between the social assistance rates of municipalities, thus indicating discrimination against vulnerable groups. The issue was also addressed by the same groupings to the Civil Ombudsman in June 2007. The government is strongly committed to improving the life situation of people who, for various reasons, become dependent on social assistance. That is why, from 1 November last year, we introduced a new qualification programme with a standardised qualification support, where persons with social assistance as their main source of income over a long period of time, or who are at risk of such a situation, are the main target. All NAV offices shall work actively to reduce the number of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance by offering instead a qualification programme with the corresponding qualification aid. A qualification programme is an individualised and labour-oriented programme, the aim of which is to enable participants to finance their living through their own work rather than receiving social security. For those who, following the implementation of a qualification programme, do not receive work after the end of the programme, this programme will also be able to contribute to clarify whether they need further assistance to get into work and/or whether they qualify for a sustainable social security benefit. The introduction of the qualification programme is the main targeted action to help individuals and combat poverty in the Government's action plan against poverty. For some, social assistance will be the only option in a period. The Social Services Act shall ensure proper assistance to persons who, for various reasons, are unable to provide for their own living. The benefit shall be measured on the basis of an individual and concrete need assessment. In order to assist in the management of social services, municipalities have produced monthly rates of social assistance for single beneficiaries and for families. These are intended as a starting point for the measurement of social benefits in each case. It could vary between municipalities what the costs are intended to cover. In addition, where rates are intended to cover only basic needs such as food and clothing, municipalities will have to make a concrete assessment of the individual’s need for social benefits for transport, health, leisure, etc. covered by the concept of residence in law. The level of the rates will also be influenced by whether costs such as child benefit and cash support can be covered are included in the rates - or otherwise: whether child benefit and cash support are counted as income and deducted from the municipal rate. The fact that the rates of municipalities vary does not justify the conclusion that there is discrimination when it comes to the actual overall payment of social assistance. Since 2001, the Ministry has provided guidance on the measurement of social security benefits by municipalities. It is clear from the ministry circular what the indicative rates are intended to cover. The State indicative rates, like the municipal rates, are only a starting point for the individual assessment and an aid in the proceedings. One of the objectives of the State guidance guidelines was to contribute to a more consistent treatment of applications for social assistance and to reduce any differences in the level of social benefits between municipalities. The indicative rates have also resulted in more than two thirds of the municipalities in 2006 using the indicative rates of the State or having higher rates. In my reply to the Civil Ombudsman in the light of his question to the Ministry in June 2007 on discrimination against social welfare beneficiaries, I indicated that the Ministry will evaluate the system of state guidelines for measuring social assistance. The aim of the evaluation is to provide a better overview of the practices of municipalities in measuring economic social assistance and the impact of the State guidance guidelines on the practices of municipalities. In this respect, the Ministry will also assess the appropriateness of a minimum rate, such as: the minimum standardisation of key cost components for living. This evaluation is currently ongoing and is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2008. The Government is committed to safeguarding the rights of social welfare beneficiaries. This involves following up the legislation and ensuring that the law is practised according to its intentions. There shall be no arbitrary discrimination. In this respect, I would like to inform you that the Government has taken a stand and is now preparing a bill on State supervision of the local authorities' practice of economic social assistance and the qualifying programme of social benefits. Currently, the county supervises the provision of social services by municipalities such as home help, support contacts, etc. However, supervision does not include the granting of social benefits to living quarters, i.e. social assistance, and the qualification programme with related social benefits. Complaints systems and supervision are important legal safeguards for users. The government is now proposing that both schemes also apply to beneficiaries of social assistance. While the appeal procedure is intended to ensure review and correct decisions in individual cases brought against it, the supervision shall ensure legal certainty for all applicants for assistance from the municipality. The supervision shall include, inter alia: examine whether the municipalities ensure access to the scheme, whether the right of appeal is disclosed and whether the social service law is being practised as it should. In the past, there are, among other things: verification of whether the municipalities actually make a concrete and individual judgement when measuring social benefits. The draft law, sent at the hearing in August/September, will also include proposals to introduce statutory internal control obligations for municipalities in the same administrative areas. The Ministry will then review the hearing bodies, and then a legislative proposal for the Stortinget will be put forward with the aim of examining the proposals in the spring of 2009 and entering into force on 1 July 2009. So the last thing I was about now is an information to the Stortinget that the Government has decided that we will introduce control and supervision in this area as well, and not least that we will now also, by law, impose internal control on the municipalities. I am not going to use this opportunity to polemise too strongly in the party policy direction, but it is nevertheless interesting that a representative of the Christian People's Party addresses the discrimination in the municipalities, because this is not a new phenomenon that came in the autumn of 2005. The party leader of the Christian People's Party had my job ahead of me, and this opportunity to introduce supervision and internal control in the municipalities was also open today, but it had to change the government to get it to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e404	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we'd rather be positive that some parties are willing to change course and do even more when we see that it doesn't go the way we wanted. I also think it looks like we have a common understanding of many of the problems that the inequalities in social assistance rates lead to from municipality to municipality. Of course, the Christian People's Party supports the qualification programme. It is one of the most important things we can do in this area that is targeted and that will help people out of poverty in the long term. I also think it is positive that there should now be an evaluation of social assistance rates, because there is no doubt, after reading this report, that it is absolutely necessary. But I hope it's not just a discussion about the level of the benefit, whether one should follow the rates of the State Institute of Consumer Research, SIFO, as it has often been before. In my first post, I gave signals based on what the report said, that the rate might not be too low, because there are many negative outcomes. The Social Act has services today, and you'll see if you might want to have some rules that are more binding. So it's a challenge to define what is a proper level. I was going to challenge the Council of State on this with state supervision, and I've already received an answer that I'm very satisfied with, because I think that's the way to go. I am very pleased that it is confirmed, and also that the right to appeal is strengthened - it strengthens the legal certainty of this group. At the same time, it concerns us with the discrimination between different municipalities and that the payment is made on the basis of different criteria. I want to give an example from Vindaford, which had a period of between 5700 kroner and 5,900 kroner, while the government's indicative rates were 4,140 kroner. All the municipalities around had lower rates. This led to many streaming to Windfjord, and finally the municipality had to set down its rates because it became too expensive. So the local economy was the reason why they changed rates, not the social evaluations. I expect the Council of State is not satisfied that this is how it is done. I can also imagine a slightly more complementary response with regard to the young long-term recipients, and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e426	It is precisely on the basis that we see that there are so different practices, that we have now decided to establish state supervision in this area, and that the State, which is then supervising a number of areas, can now also enter on its own initiative into municipalities, establish supervision, in order to assess whether the payments of social assistance are in line with the law. It's important. If discussions are then held that municipalities do not fulfil the obligations of the law, supervision can be exercised and, on the basis of supervision, it can be dealt with against these municipalities. When using the means of redress, the municipality must have an internal control system which ensures that, when the applicant receives a complaint, it has to have consequences for the municipality's practice in similar cases. It is also a very important element through requirements for internal control and the establishment of supervisory authorities. So implementing this grip is a pretty big social policy reform, where we are now going in and saying to Kommune-Norge that the state supervisory system is now getting into an area where they've probably not been. I understand, of course, that the issue here is the over-management of the municipalities, but I believe that Kommune-Norge will also understand that a practice over time that evolves towards major differences between municipalities and uncertainties related to whether the purpose of the law is met is not good. I therefore believe that we will also have an understanding in Kommune-Norway that we are now implementing this social policy reform. It's going to be very exciting to work with the law. It will be very exciting to conduct the hearings to see how the law is being received, and it will be very exciting to come back to the Stortinget in spring 2009 and discuss it and deal with it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e435	The issue of social assistance rates is a recurring issue. It's a topic that really has quite a few phase responses, and many times I have the feeling that the political debate around this is a little on the ground. Having said that, I would also like to stress that I think the interpellant is asking a timely question, and I am inclined to agree that the criteria for what should be included in an individual assessment of the need for social assistance should be the same. But when that is said, I don't think that in itself will lead to the conclusion of this debate on social assistance rates once and for all, and that all payments thus become the same. What I often find to be a problem in this discussion is that it is very often presented as if the typical social welfare beneficiary is a long-term beneficiary who lives exclusively from social assistance over a long period of time, and that indicative rates instead of a state norm make many municipalities look at their average to cut in by not adjusting their own rates in line with the government recommendation - and that it in turn leads to their ‘swindling’ users for x the number of dollars. But that's not the right picture. What's important in the discussion about social assistance is that we have the right reality at the bottom, because otherwise it can easily lead us to go on simple solutions, a state norm, which we think should solve all the problems. And done in the best possible sense, one at the same time could risk doing users a bear service. It's true that the municipal rates vary a lot. The evening post, among others referred to it in a major series of articles last year. They went to work in depth, even sorted the municipalities by party color, and the Progressive Party and Christian People's Party municipalities came out very badly - and then I'm going to hurry to say: closely followed by the Workers' Party, so we're not going to stand here and beat ourselves on the chest for that reason. But if one goes closer to the material in the seams, it turns out that the municipal rate is not the same as the actual payment. It follows from the law that an individual assessment is to be made, and so is the law. In the wake of the Evening Post reports last year, I myself was challenged to debate in NRK Buskerud, and then the issue was two municipalities in Buskerud, Hurum and Hol, both of whom had rates that were below the state recommendations. Hurum was NOK 330 below, Hol was all NOK 1700 below. When we started to debate and got the real numbers from the municipalities on the table, it turned out that the actual payment in Hol on average was NOK 5 911. It was because Hol had few long-term recipients of social assistance, few social assistance clients at all, because there was a very low unemployment rate in the municipality, while the Hurum municipality, which was also a kind of disaster municipality, actually had an average payment of 7,820 kroner. That means that the law works as intended, in the sense that individual assessments are made. In this way, I also think that the only right thing to do is to wait for the review that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion has started after the Civil Ombudsman's enquiry, and also wait and see how the new control and supervision measures that the Council of State has presented are working. Last November, at the Council of State Poverty Conference, there were also clear warnings about the introduction of state standards in this area. KS was afraid that standardised rates could help legitimize social assistance as a lasting solution, and that is, of course, contrary to what we want. We want the opposite: least social assistance, as much as possible over to work and activity, and those who are unable to do so can get into the social security system and out of the social assistance system as possible as quickly as possible, and that the aim must be to ensure that social assistance works as it is intended. But the second warning, perhaps even more important, was the one from Sweden, which has introduced a system in which current expenditure is included in a national norm that becomes binding on municipalities. And what did Geir Møller from Telemark Research say about the result? Yeah, it wasn't really very uplifting. The result was that there were still large differences in the assessment of matters from municipality to municipality, both if you were to receive social assistance and how much you received. It also appeared that differences increased as time went on, because assessments became much more stringent and local judgement disappeared — the individual assessment of needs almost disappeared. So I'm not going to deny here today that it may be important to give signals through a state norm, but I think we're going to investigate this a little bit more carefully first. I guess I don't see the interpellant there either, that's what she wants here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e453	The best solution to the question asked by Woie Duesund is to get people to work. The main problem is those who are long-term beneficiaries of economic social assistance, and especially the young. This group is at risk of permanently being away from work, either by changing to disability or by continuing a permanent course as a social welfare beneficiary. None of the parts are desirable. It is therefore necessary to put in place measures to avoid this and to get the beneficiaries of economic social assistance into work. A unanimous increase has adopted the qualification system, which could work well. The qualification programme has one major weakness that could act as a brake to achieve the objective, and it is that participation in the qualification programme is voluntary. So you can choose to participate in a qualification program as a social worker. This means that you can choose not to qualify for a job, for a job. It is unacceptable in my view. Every citizen has an obligation to try to support himself. By not participating in a qualification program, you don't do that in my view. It is therefore necessary to require those receiving social assistance to participate in the qualification programme. This could lead to much more people who are currently receiving social assistance coming into gainful employment. Too many people will be the solution to the problem of self-sufficiency. Experience from many municipalities is that if more demands are made on beneficiaries of social assistance, more people, especially young people, go from social assistance to work. The requirements may be to set up in the social office in the morning, as the Council of State itself has been out and said, and to operate with snow removal for the elderly. Of course, this will also help stop the vicious spiral that many young people start with in the social office, so that they get to work. There are considerable differences between municipalities. It's referred to in the interpolation. It's also been known for a long time. For this reason, the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed transferring responsibility for economic social assistance from the municipalities to the state. That would eliminate today's discrimination. Today's system could lead to receivers moving - as the representative Woie Duesund was in it - from the municipality to the municipality, based on how high the rates of living are. Another important argument that the State should assume responsibility for social protection is that the level of social assistance should not depend on the economy of each municipality. Without going into the bet level, I would say that the rates should be the same for everyone, and be based on a professional assessment of criteria. The supervision of the level means, as the Council of State was in it, that the State actually sets a minimum level of social assistance. But it will not ensure equal treatment. I would therefore rather urge the Council of State to follow Karin Andersen and SV, who agree with the Progress Party, for once, that this should be transferred to the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e466	I think this debate is interesting, because it is characterized by shades and by the fact that up to several people are very clear that this is not a simple question with a perfectly obvious fascist answer. What I am very pleased about is that there is such a clear message, both from the Council of State and from the representative Lise Christoffersen, that there is no belief that a stately binding standard is the answer to all problems. I have to say I'm completely in line with what these have expressed. I think that will only lead to a number of new problems, which the representative Lise Christoffersen was also involved. I think it is important to make some clarifications about what social assistance is and has been meant to be for those who need such help, namely a short-term economic performance to cover the most necessary costs - a kind of crisis aid. This can be seen in the Social Services Act. Normally no one under the social assistance law shall be so-called long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. When so is the case, I believe it is a serious system failure. I feel that what the Storing has adopted, and which the Government has been given quite a broad political impetus, to introduce a qualification programme for long-term recipients of social assistance, is an answer to that challenge. If that's an adequate answer, I'm significantly in doubt about it. But at least it's a necessary answer and a big step in the right direction. I just have to admit that. I believe that the qualification program can lift people out of a hopeless life situation, just so it's said. In this respect, it is important to focus on, in a debate on social assistance, not necessarily the level or amount of social assistance, but what assistance the individual beneficiary receives in addition to the economic benefit, i.e. what measures are being taken to give the individual recipient the help he or she needs to become self-sustaining and get out of a hopeless and difficult life situation. This can be done through work promotion measures. If it is found that there is no residual working capacity, if it is not realistic to get him into work, then there is a need to shift to income protection schemes other than social assistance, because there is therefore no income protection scheme; it is a short-term crisis aid. In the debate on this topic, the picture is very often black and white, and you stare completely blindly at these municipal rates of living. They often cover more than they tell about reality. That is, as the Council of State was very clear, an individual and concrete assessment to be made. That's still the way it has to be. When these debates from time to time appear in the media, where it seems that some political forces very strongly want it to be a far higher and stately binding rate, I would like to mention that from time to time I have received enquiries from people who work in social services, who tell a little about how little they believe in it. One of these enquiries was received from a social curator in a large social office in the East, who strongly warned against raising the general rates of social assistance and also against making it binding. The person sent me a calculation that showed what it was like in their municipality, where a family of five with three children received the following every month: living for a married couple NOK 7 650, living for three children NOK NOK 5736, rent of the house. 5,200, power NOK 1 000, kindergarten per 1 000 month(s) for one child kr. Eighty-five. The total expenditure covered by the Social Security Office each month was NOK 21,436. In addition, the cost of one leisure activity per person is reported to be covered. Children per day six months, medical expenses on prescription and medical expenses. Sum sum: If you were at work, you would have to have an annual income of almost 400,000 kroner to get a monthly benefit that came up at this level. So I think it's very important to have the shades in place here and not stare blindly at the monthly rate of living. It tells a little bit about reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e477	Money, power, work, legal certainty, health and education -- all this is distortedly distributed. SV wants smaller differences. It has to be if we're all going to have equal opportunities. The fight against poverty is not canceled at all, it shows, among other things. State Council posts today with the strong commitment to the qualification programme. The fact that we have now secured user organisations, both economics, more power and influence, and also the work that is now being done on social assistance and the strong commitment to labour market policy, makes me think that this claim can be put to death. But there are unfortunately too many differences both in the quality of the assistance you get, and it makes you live on if you are dependent on social assistance, depending on where you live. It is not because food and clothing, newspapers and TV licenses vary in price across the country. Unfortunately, there is a big difference between the attitudes you meet with also, whether there is respect and dignity and the necessary assistance, where the administration is doing the job of coordinating, or whether there are repulsive and degrading attitudes and a sea must find out their rights and fight them against the system. This is why the Government’s decision to introduce state control and effective access to justice related to social assistance is very important both in principle, because it means ending the inexplicable state of emergency it has been in this area, and because it is necessary for people to have real legal certainty, including those who need the most to survive welfare systems. The fact that beneficiaries of social assistance have not had the same access to appeals against decisions and that the State has not supervised this core area of social cohesion has led to legal losses for users and has contributed to differences in community practice. So I'm very happy with what's happening now with this question, and also that we're going to assess whether there's a need for standardisation. Social assistance should not be a long-term benefit, but it is too many. The qualification program will hopefully fix some of this, but it will take some time. And the qualification program has standardized benefits. So in the meantime, many people have to live on social assistance that doesn't go to, where the inequalities are very big between the municipalities, and where you can't see that they're based on an assessment of what it actually costs to live a decent life. The report on which it is based today, from the Fattignorge Association, the Trade Union and Jussbuss Association, only confirms what previous reports, for example, have done. by the Directorate for Health and Social Affairs, Telemarksforschung, SIFO and SSB. More municipalities than before follow the indicative rate, but what they include in the rate varies a lot, and there is a great deal of deviation from the recommendations made by the State regarding the costs to be included in the norm and which can trigger supplements. If they do, we know little about it, because it comes from the individual assessment, as many have said. However, such systematic differences cannot be justified. So the differences we see now cannot be justified in the individual assessment required by the Social Services Act. There are geographical differences. There are differences between municipalities and not between the needs of individuals. Many of these expenditures vary, but SV has been particularly concerned with children and poverty. The report from Telemarksforschung shows that there is no line in what municipalities treat equally or differently in relation to child expenditure. That's why I share Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund's view of this, but it's a little strange to experience--for these things I took up quite many times when the Christian People's Party also put into government. For example, she takes up child welfare. I agree. Even worse, I think it's that the one-time benefit at birth is considered to be the usual income in almost all municipalities, and only 5 pst. the municipalities allowed the poorest families of children to keep this money, which is to be given to mothers who are not entitled to maternity benefits. This is not money for food, clothing and household. This is money to go to the extra expenses a poor family has when they have a child. But it's not like that. There is a very wide variation in the rates of infant equipment, leisure equipment and leisure activities. This varies. So we know very little about how we manage to care for children's needs so that they can live a normal social life and be included in the other child's driving through this system. So there's a need to do something about the inexplicable and arbitrary differences that especially affect children and those who have to depend on social assistance for a long time. Money isn't everything in life, but it's more important the less you have of them. Therefore, the level of performance is also important. It is essential that people are not treated arbitrarily and differently. They should, like all others, be treated as equivalent nationals of a country and, like others living on public benefits, should be subject to rules that do not distinguish geographically but as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e490	As many have said, social assistance is at the beginning a temporary income hedge. But the reality is that too many have become long-term recipients and thus have social assistance as the basis for their living - more or less permanent. It has also been shown that we now have a very important reform in place that intervenes in this, namely the system of qualification programmes. That's, I feel, the most important thing about the debate we have here on how to standardize social assistance. We go in and meet those people who have in a way been the main argument for standardising social assistance, namely long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, with their own programme, the qualification programme, which is to lead to work or education - possibly lasting social security. I want to warn you that we're making the qualification programme something we're saying is an obligation. Today we have said that there should be a right that gives the obligation to enter into a qualification scheme, i.e. a right to benefits and an obligation to qualify. I'm afraid we're saying this is an ordinary race for a group of people. Then it's easy that this also goes into the system where we say that it is, and that the individualization and the motivation phase is so bad that it's going to be spending a lot of money for little use compared to what comes out of it. It is important that there are motivated participants in the qualification programme when we put such heavy resources into it. The central party does not believe that we should state social assistance. The representative Svendsen pointed out that the important thing here is to get equal treatment. I wonder if not the most important thing is perhaps an individual treatment of social welfare recipients, that one sees each and manages to provide services and offers that are tailored to the individual's needs and the individual's life situation in particular, because this is provided for being of a temporary nature. I am probably also of the opinion that publicising social assistance and thus transferring all that is the responsibility of the NAVs to the state would be a mistake. I think this should be an interaction between state and municipality. It's awfully demanding today--poor them, I'd almost said, that's going to handle it. But it is quite important that the municipalities are not drawn out of any of the basics of welfare management, namely, seeing the individuals and helping the weakest; I will be strongly negative to that. State social assistance is not the solution. As the representative Woie Duesund pointed out, it is, after all, eight out of ten municipalities that are now following the indicative state norm. Two out of ten don't. Many of them are below the indicative state norm, but some are also above. It is positive that focusing on the indicative State standard has led to more and more adaptations to it. I do not understand that not all municipalities are at least suited to be at that level, because having a negative focus on their municipality both through the media and from residents, because the municipality is below the indicative level, when in reality it may have payments at least at the same level, cannot be worth breaking. I'm afraid that too many municipal politicians are too little involved in what is the basis for measuring social assistance, and leave this to the administration. So I challenge our rapporteurs - I would almost say - by saying that this is something you have to take care of yourself and make sure that you come into a position where you can defend what is being done by the community. What we are not served with, and something that is unworthy of this, is the communautaire communautaire communautaire communautaire communautaires' communautaires' communautaires' communautaires' communautaires' norms. This is some of what we have to get away from. This is unworthy in the way today's social assistance system is implemented. In fact, I believe that the solutions that the Council of State here has signaled that he will present to the Storting next year are important in this context. Requirements for municipal control, the possibility for the State to exercise supervision and, not least, the introduction of a clearer right of appeal, will lead in the right direction. I do not deny that we should have a minimum state standard, but that is not the main issue in this context. The main problem is to focus on what is the situation, that there is transparency about the way the municipalities perform this service, and that it should be individual treatment - but that the individual also in this system should have rights that can be measured in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e510	There's a diversity here -- from the extreme, which is the desire for a state making, to what most people think, that in many ways this might be about an interaction. For many years, the left has had a vision of civic pay in the form of a guaranteed minimum income - without conditions of employment or in relation to economic needs. Many are followers of this. Guaranteed minimum income has been implemented in Brazil with effect from 2005, with the very poorest being the first target group. The same discussion has taken place, for example: South Africa, Iraq and the state of Alaska, which have implemented a variant. In the Nordic countries, the discussion is more or less absent in Norway and Sweden, but in Finland and Denmark there has been a discussion. To introduce a guaranteed minimum income for long-term recipients of social assistance of 2.5 G, which is to be considered taxable income, which will amount to NOK 10000 per month after tax, we think we would be a good scheme, funded as a split layer between country and municipality. In practice, the consequence of this would be a standardisation of the social assistance rates for the whole country - such as the interpellant just demand - without a government commitment. But by keeping the housing support out of place, it would be up to the individual municipality to adjust the costs of living. It would obviously be cheaper to live in a municipality than, for example, in the capital. Citizen pay, of course, will not be suitable for all social welfare recipients. Among other things, it will be difficult to imagine that a payment of NOK 10 000 per month to a heavy injecting drug addict would have been the right one. An increase in the income of social welfare recipients will bring dignity to a group of people who are too often passive clients today. It is time- and resource-consuming to go from office to office and constantly explain their needs. An increase in this group's income will give many opportunities to spend time differently, and it will itself have positive effects that are difficult to measure in dollars and ears. There are opportunities for savings in the health and social sector in the long term. The left is a strong supporter for municipalities to find good solutions for their citizens, but in the long run, today's social assistance needs to be replaced by a citizen's wage, which is our vision. Such a salary shall be for people who, for various reasons, fall outside the ordinary working and social security systems and are therefore unable to provide for themselves. Of course, there has to be an individual plan that has to be binding on both the user and the public, in order to ensure a more stable life for the user. In any case, the main challenge is to tear down the invisible walls that exist between establishments and institutions. It does not help with a State-guided standard of social assistance rates if you are not assisted by drug or psychiatry problems. Nor does it help with general rights laws on education and work when you have more than enough to find a place to sleep at night. In Norway, it is no longer important to give more to everyone, but to give more to those who actually need it the most. Poverty in Norway is no longer a class problem, but a problem that affects individuals - often very randomly and unexpectedly. That is why we want to provide a security in the form of what we call a citizen's wage, a guaranteed minimum income, supplemented by individual solutions that can help the individual out of poverty and into a worthwhile life. Economic social assistance is an individual, needs-tested short-term benefit to help recipients to cope without social assistance. Thus, the amount of social assistance has to be calculated on a discretionary basis, and some guidance is given in a circular. That is what Karin Andersen points out in the debate, that there are inequalities here. Then you might have to go through the guidelines instead of having a government commitment to this. I noticed what the Council of State said about state supervision and control. I hope, like others, that we don't slip into the governmentization of social assistance, but that it's a guide for the municipalities to follow the guidance rates more closely. As others have pointed out, in fact, the vast majority of municipalities -- eight out of ten -- follow the rates that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e529	I thank you for a dedicated debate, although I do not like the trend that there will be a Norwegian championship in which government has done the most, such as the Council of State and, in part, the Swedish Government. I think the problem is too serious for it, especially because so many children are involved. They are the most vulnerable, and they suffer most when the family is poor. I noticed that most people agree with the Christian People's Party that it is difficult to understand that those who need it the most are shut out from the universal arrangements of which most of us enjoy. I'm pleased with the signal the Council of State gives to work for more equality between municipalities. But I noticed that he did not fully answer whether it has anything to do with the local economy. The Christian People's Party will support better supervision, better complaint mechanisms and internal control, which help secure rights for users. I believe that it will also lead to a much more fair system. The Progress Party has considered whether social assistance should become state-owned. For the Christian People's Party, it seems much better to have a minimum norm, as the Council of State called it. Nevertheless, there will always be a need to use judgement, and who can do it better than the municipality, which is close to the users? It is important to see the individual’s needs and to have individual solutions, as the representatives from the Right and the Workers’ Party made clear. The point of progress was whether to participate in the qualification programme on a voluntary basis. I think the Christian People's Party will think carefully about whether that might be the way to go. No one has commented on the large health costs that many people often call taxes on disease. The representative Karin Andersen was concerned about the people's meeting with NAV, and there was a lot of talk in the report. NAV was called ‘almost always difficult’. We want it to be 'nearly always winners'. We want them to win when they get to NAV, because the best way to get out of poverty is precisely that NAV succeeds in getting fewer social security and more in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e546	Let me just start very briefly by stressing -- and I feel that it is necessary from the speeches that have been in the debate -- that it has always been so that it has been possible to complain about decisions on social assistance. So what we're doing now is not introducing an access to complaint, because it's been possible. What has been the challenge of today's system is that the consequence of a complaint being supported has been that the complainant has been strengthened in its legal certainty. However, it has not sufficiently contributed to the strengthening of legal certainty by those who have not complained through the individual decision. So now, when we introduce an additional supervision, it will not only increase legal certainty for those who exercise the right of appeal, but supervision helps to increase legal certainty for all those seeking help, and it is followed by an internal control obligation in the municipalities. That's the important new thing we're doing. It may be that we are now trying to perform a Norwegian championship in who has done the most. But as far as I remember, it was the interpellant that referred to Soria Moria in his first post and, as I recall, suggested that this government had not been active enough. Then I think the interpellant has to live with that we're comparing to the previous one. I don't think that would be an unknown technique for the interpellant either. I believe that when we now sum up and see that over the time we have run the country, 200,000 more people have come to work, when we see the strengthening we have had in the labour market, when we see the billions we spend on NAV, when we see the whole establishment of the new social policy approach of qualification programme, when we see how we are now implementing the growth message of work, welfare and inclusion in the field by area, when we see that, after all, we have increased the economic social assistance rates, and that we are now introducing control and supervision, well, it is not that it is no longer poor in Norway, but we are fighting poverty in a rather active and targeted way. And as a bit of a dialogue that happens in this room, I think we also have to be able to compare government with government. This government has strong ambitions to fight poverty, and I think we deliver quite well in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e557	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e570	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e579	The representatives of Storting Eriksson, Kjønaas Kjos, Svendsen and Nesvik ask the Government in its proposal to develop an action plan specifically aimed at the needs of the deaf and deaf. The proposal also contains eight measures which the representatives believe will improve the living conditions of this group. Proposalers want to state and enforce the rights of large parts of the offers made to the deaf and deaf group, among others. by transferring the financial responsibility for the provision of housing and care to this special group from the municipalities to the population. The Progress Party's proposal includes a number of measures that are important to improve the follow-up and quality of life of the deaf and deaf. There is no disagreement on this in the Committee. However, the draft representative also has proposals that represent fundamental changes to existing policies for the organisation of assistance and the organisation of disabled people to which there is a need to be more critical. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a separate action plan for actions aimed at deaf and deaf people, nor does it support the proposal to state the provision of housing and care. An overall committee suggests that people with special needs for assistance to master daily life and working life challenges should be assisted according to their individual needs, not according to whether they belong to a specific diagnostic group. We point out that the role of the Storting will be to provide a legislative and policy development that builds up under this. A unanimous increase has previously indicated that individual action plans for individual groups are not the way to meet, for example: The need for deaf and deaf blind people. The majority also do not believe that it would be better to offer deaf and deaf blindness to relieve the municipalities of responsibility in this area. The majority is responsible for the fact that we have a law that requires quality and individualisation of the offers. Whether the municipalities responsible for the actions of the individual should buy space in special care measures or organise an offer themselves will depend on the needs and wishes of the specific person. Much attention shall be paid to what he or she wants, and in this respect we demonstrate the social services law's obligation to consult with the client. As mentioned above, there are a number of concrete measures in the proposal for a representative that an overall committee is behind. However, there is a weakness in the proposal for a representative that the background for several of the measures proposed is made by reference to ten-year-old decisions in Stortinget. The letters of the Council of State to the Committee indicate that measures have been taken in several areas meeting the needs of the Storting. This applies, for example: in the field of training, the availability of sign language competence in hospitals and information measures. The situation can continue to improve in a number of areas, such as the interpretation service, and this is also underlined by an overall committee. However, circumstances are not such that this justifies a specific need for action through a separate action plan to help deaf and deaf people. From the above point of view, the Committee's position, other than that of the Party for Progress, is that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e594	The matter is well explained by the rapporteur, so I will not go into what he has said and repeat it. But I could now imagine drawing a line from the two previous issues and until the matter we are dealing with now. The two preceding cases concerned young people suffering from mental illness and long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, groups requiring close follow-up in the NAV system because they have complex needs. And deaf blind people are another group of special needs. It seems to me that it is actually a stillborn project to create individual action plans for each diagnostic group. I am convinced that only fragmentation and lack of completeity in the auxiliary equipment lead. The NAV system shall, according to the new device, respond to the needs of individuals in a qualitatively good manner. Diagnosis is still important, of course, but the diagnosis must therefore be subordinated to the individual's own resources. You should be seen as an individual, not as a member of a group with a particular diagnosis. The same can actually be applied here as in the other cases, it becomes too simple and uniform to say that the governmentization of parts of the municipal auxiliaries is the answer to what may not work in the current situation. The biggest challenge for this group, the deaf-blind -- as for many others -- is not about more formal rights, but about getting good coordination of services from various help agencies. I said it as a municipal politician at the time that the fragmented state is the biggest problem of the municipality, and I haven't changed my mind about it since I came to the Stortinget - I've just written it a little bit about it: the users' biggest problem is a fragmented auxiliary device - especially users with complex needs. Action is now being taken to put it in place, through individual levels and coordination of services. Personally, I have never hidden the fact that I really want a little more authority for NAV, that once an individual plan has been put in place, NAV could be empowered to order the other agencies that may not provide services in due time. We are not there yet, until the sector thinking is unfortunately too rooted, but I am absolutely convinced that one day we will also get that far. The party of progress is in its comments amazed, or wondering, at the other parties. It is a well-known feature of the Progress Party, the Progress Party is always most amazed when they stand alone against the rest. But at the same time they are in their desired position. What surprises me is that the Progress Party is, in fact, still maintaining its proposal, having received the detailed answer from the Council of State in the matter, which shows that the situation today is quite different from the situation ten years ago when the comments to which the Progress Party refers were written. But there is also something that I have realized since then that I have been to Stortinget: Earlier, in Carl I. Hagen's Glansdays, I registered that in every debate on TV was the standard replica: the Progress Party has made proposals in Stortinget, but unfortunately remained alone. After I came here and saw the flood of Document No. 8-proposals that keep knocking open doors, I've understood that. In this case, there is absolutely what is the case--a knocking open doors. That doesn't mean that we in the majority are satisfied with today's practice. But the challenge here is to use the tool that lies there. It is about the qualification of auxiliaries, not new action plans, which unfortunately have proved not to work very well for the users for whom they are intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e607	As the rapporteur says, it is correct that a number of things have happened in this area. But that's still the way that there's a lot left before we're in the goal. I ask myself, is it such that the deaf and deaf blind make up such a small group that they are why we don't want to get hold of it? Is that why it's so easy to lean back and look at what's done before, rather than go into the new issues that have arisen in recent years? It amazes me. It also makes me wonder at the posts of the representative Christoffersen, because this is not about opening doors, it's about taking a number of enquiries like, among other things. those who have also been signed have been given seriously. It's about trying to get into the everyday life of the people who are addressing the people who are signed as a big-time representative. I feel it is my duty, my task, to take the enquiries seriously and to be the people's ombudsman. Then I think it's going to be a bit pathetic, excuse me, that you're almost accused of running a polemic that's going to turn open doors in order to show a political account. The kind of attitude and argument I thought you would avoid getting into this room. I would like to take a look at a conference that was in Trondheim, which shows that there are still major problems, which are also about the challenges of the NAV system - quite rightly that the action plan ten years ago was incorporated into the action plan we have. But given the enquiries I've received in the last year, it's also true that people don't think this works well enough, and would have liked to have seen that there was a separate action plan that was more focused on helping them. To take one example from the conference that Adecco had in Trondheim: There a lady rises up in the hall and says: I have the impression that NAV and the public system are not willing or interested in helping me. They are more interested in letting me get dissatisfaction than in giving me an offer for a job. That is why I finally cut off asking for help from NAV and went to the private company Manpower. After 14 days they had arranged for assistants, opportunities and offers, so that I could get out of work. Why does it not work in public? Why is it that people do not receive the type of assistance or assistance they need when they turn to the public utility, which should be NAV? I'm asking the question. At my discretion, it is also time to take these enquiries seriously and get to an action plan that works much better. The second relates to the provision of housing. I'm not talking about a government agency -- that the state should have its own housing office, or run and run. I'm talking about financial instruments. We know, and the FFO has also pointed out to the committee on several occasions, that this varies greatly from municipality to municipality. You don't have a uniform or good enough offer, and some ports are largely outside in some municipalities. Then I think it is our job to try to find new schemes and new solutions that ensure everyone an equally good offer in terms of financing solutions, regardless of which municipality they live in. In any case, it should not be such that the municipalities can use it as a reason for lack of money to do so. This should be seen in other ways, and I believe that this will also be important in order to avoid discrimination against individual groups. That is why I think it is still highly topical to maintain the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote, and I allow myself to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e622	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e625	When it comes to dealing with the matter, I agree with what the case rapporteur said about it. I think one of the reasons we have the case on the table is some of the requests we get that I perceive is not so much about lack of arrangements, but about getting the arrangements we have to work in practice and in the everyday life of these individuals and families. I have had a lot of enquiries from families with children with disabilities, and what they experience is that they have to be their own coordinator in the system. First they have to know what they're entitled to, and then they have to figure out the system seam. That's how I think there's too many people with different types of disabilities. I also see that we have a challenge to make the interaction work, to get information to those who need it, and to put in place the coordination that needs to be there for everyday life to work. For people do not live their lives in the different public sectors. This is about getting overall management and individualisation, along with the characteristics of this field, namely that it requires high levels of competence in highly specialised areas. It is an area that is vulnerable around it, because it requires a competence that is not general. It takes time to establish that not only professionals to provide assistance have it, but perhaps also that someone in the environment around and in the social everyday life you have to live in, have some of the skills that are needed to make everyday life work. I'd like to start a little bit from one of the last things that Eriksson's representative said. He talked about the housing offer and about making this public. I totally disagree with that. But I think there's a very big difference between how the municipalities manage to take advantage of the subsidies that are actually able to establish housing as the individual with disabilities will have it, and so that not everyone necessarily ends up in a nursing home. There may be a need to look at schemes, even in the House Bank today, which can make it easier and easier for people who also have no prospect of getting high incomes through their lives, so that we can have arrangements that allow them to be in a much better position to decide where and how they want to live, through state support schemes that can be put at the bottom, with clauses in these dwellings. It may also be a matter of almost living property that some people with complex and severe functional losses experience, because they feel that a municipality can decide where to live, not only internally in the municipality, but that they will live in this municipality. I had e.g. a case with a girl who lived in a municipality in Hedmark, who received an offer at a school in Westfold, because there was the best offer. She lived there until she was an adult, and then suddenly decided the municipality where her parents lived, and where she had lived until she was 16: No, now you're going to move home, because we can give you a cheaper offer in our municipality than what you get where you now live. So she had lived her entire growth somewhere else, in an environment where there was a high level of competence, and where she had social networks. But the municipality had the right to move her home to the municipality and said, well, we'll teach people who'll be around you. But it takes a very long time, when you don't have sight or hearing and depend on completely specialized knowledge of interpretation and specialized sign language. I understand that individuals in this system feel that they do not own water. That's why I understand that we need to look at how the housing situation in particular works too many -- that they have the ability to get a self-contained dwelling, decide what kind of housing they want, but also that they actually have to be able to choose which municipality they want to live in. For the living property, as is known, Norway has been suspended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e642	The proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party involves eight actions for the deaf and deaf, which the proposers consider central to improving the living conditions of this group. The Christian People's Party shares the proposalers' intention that the authorities have an important responsibility to assist those who have special needs, including deaf and deaf. I want to commend the representatives of their great commitment to better integrate this group into society as a whole. The Christian People's Party believes that all people must be viewed as individuals to be assisted by individual needs, and not according to whether they belong to a particular diagnostic group. I'm glad that a joint committee apart from the Advancement Party ends up about the principle view. Former Minister for Children and Gender Equality Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen briefed the Department in a letter of 5 February on its work on the measures proposed in the draft representative. I have noticed that several of the measures requested in the proposal for a representative are already in place, or are working with the Government. I share the representative's wish for good information on the rights and relief measures of deaf and deaf people. This is ensured, inter alia, by: at the Eikholt national resource centre for deaf blind people. The previous social committee was visiting there and was powerfully impressed by the work they were doing. The Christian People's Party considers that the proposals for the right to additional school years in secondary school and access to adult education are respected by the provisions of the Training Act, as set out in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee. With regard to the offer at primary school, I believe that the rules for special education specifically adapted to the needs of students are a more correct and important contribution to meeting the needs of people with disabilities than the statutory right to extra school years. In its observations on decisions taken in the Grand Duchy from 10 years ago, the party's progress party refers to decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. I even attended many of these in the light of the situation at that time. Already at that time, an overall committee, including the Progress Party, felt that there was no need for a separate action plan for deaf and deaf people. I don't see why the need has changed today. As pointed out in the comments of the majority and in the letters of the Council of State, a number of measures have, fortunately, been taken to improve their supply and information in the years since then. We are now impatient to get them started, and that is probably the main challenge for the new minister. We have all been concerned about the interpretation service, and I really look forward to the report that will be completed in a month's time. In view of this and the assessment that assistance to people with special needs for assistance should be equivalent for all groups who need it, the Christian People's Party does not see it as desirable to have a separate action plan for actions aimed at deaf and deaf people. The Christian People's Party therefore joins the majority of the Committee and proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e663	Action against disabled persons is one of the most central areas of government activity. Today, we are promoting a new law on discrimination and accessibility for people with disabilities. It is especially gratifying that we also have the opportunity to discuss these questions at Stortinget today. I know that people with disabilities face many challenges in their everyday lives, and the representatives are due to raise an important discussion about a group that needs special attention. Since I coordinate enforcement responsibilities in terms of policies for the benefit of disabled people, I am now speaking on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, the Minister for Health and Care and the Minister for Knowledge. To say something about the situation of deaf and deaf blind people, I must first focus on what has happened in Norwegian society in the last ten years. We have gone from focusing on single diagnosis to focusing on individual needs. That is why we have now been given a regulation on an individual plan, which is intended to be offered to the individual by the representative Karin Andersen. We have also received a new strategy plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Norway is in the forefront of special offers for small and rare diagnostic groups. This will also benefit the deaf and deaf. The representative proposes that the financial responsibility for the provision of care for deaf blind and deaf people be transferred to popular security and that we be given a diagnosis-based funding system. I do not think that this system is suitable for giving the individual a better individual offer. The deaf blind are a very heterogeneous group. Some have been born deaf blind, approx. 100 people, while others have become. Some have been working at a time when they were not deaf blind, while others are living in a completely different situation. Some people have also reduced their functionality in other areas, so if you're only based on a diagnosis, I don't think we're facilitating this system well enough for the individual. So there are people with a similar diagnosis who would have totally different help needs. That is why I believe that we better address the need for individual organisation through today's system. There are also state special educational support systems that provide information on deaf and hearing impaired persons. You can visit the Eikholt National Resource Centre for the deaf. It is very good, provides good information and shows the amazing work done by Eikholt. In this respect, with the number of years of primary school and two additional years of secondary education, the provisions on special education have largely been complied with. If you have the right to special education, you also have the right to two more years. It should surprise me a lot about people who are deaf blind, not having the right to special education. This also applies to adult training. A new proposal has been sent from the Ministry of Knowledge to give all adults the right to complete high school, even after they have reached the age of 25. This will also include deaf blind people. With regard to the proposal on the availability of sign language skills or interpreters, I refer to the Patient Rights Act. Individuals have the right and local authorities are obliged to offer relief measures to persons who have particularly burdensome care. It's the law of the Social Services Act. The provisions are independent of diagnosis. Forms of relief services are to some extent available in the State special educational support system and in the Eikholt national resource centre for deaf blind people. There is provision for overnight stays, and a week’s camp school for deaf - blind children and young people is arranged each year. I am also familiar with the challenges we face in interpreting. That is why the Directorate will report on this before the end of May 2008. When it comes to the desire to get more people to work, the Working and Welfare Act has gone through this, and they say that deaf blind people are a group that has a lot of hidden resources. I therefore believe that the proposal presented by the representatives has been largely taken care of by existing laws and practices. We will do everything in our power to improve the success of people with disabilities in the Norwegian community, and these proposals will also benefit the deaf.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e689	It is always nice to get acquainted with new state councils, so let me first congratulate you on your appointment as State council. As the Council of State also pointed out, the interpretation service is now being evaluated and evaluated, and a report is to be submitted. There are still many people who feel that the interpreting service is inadequate, and that, even though much is good, it is also fragmented and works unpredictablely in many situations. For example, in hospitals, today’s legislation does not require trained staff to perform interpretation. We also hear that there are great variations in interpretation, and in many cases, especially in hospitals, you don't get the necessary interpretation. Will the Council of State ensure and guarantee that an interpreter service based on trained interpreters is provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e697	With regard to the interpretation service, we in our society are demanding that interpreters have special competence. This may apply to people with disabilities who want to take higher education, and in that case the interpreters must have a level and knowledge equivalent to what the user needs. It is quite clear that increased competence in the interpretation service is required during the coming period. So now we're going to go through the interpreting service. We get a report, and I want to look carefully at this report to see if we can design measures that will enable us to help users in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e704	First, I will also be allowed to take the opportunity to congratulate the new Council of State, and I hope and wish that we will have good cooperation. As most of the members of the committee, and who asked the previous question were also concerned, I am engaged in the interpretation service. Many cannot function either in the workplace, in an educational situation or in leisure time without such a service. After all, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has been tasked with providing a comprehensive and forward-looking report on the interpretation service by the end of May. My simple question to the Council of State is: Is the work on track, for this is what many people are waiting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e713	The Directorate of Labour and Welfare was given this task in October 2007, and I am familiar with the fact that there is no indication that this work has been postponed. I welcome this report with great interest, so that we can get a better overview of the situation, and, if necessary, take measures that will improve the situation for users.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e718	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2732]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e737	The central thing about this interpellation is to get one to now unknown part of recent Norwegian history, primarily women's and children's history. Because many of those who can contribute information in the matter are starting to grow old, it is important to raise the matter now. This interpellation is, as I see it, about women who pride themselves on Norwegian authorities. They were proud that the children they gave away would have a good life. This was not always the case. History includes an establishment in which midwives established private midwives, where they re-established close cooperation with private adoption intermediaries and where the public of the counties acted as pro forma approval schemes. By the fact that the public did not do their job, both mothers and children were seriously neglected in my opinion. Some of the saddest thing about this neglect was that the mothers were sure that the children would get better if they were adopted away than if they stayed home with their mother. They knew that the state would approve the adoptive parents, and that the children would come to people who put better into it than they did themselves. The state was their guarantor of good parents to the child they had to put away, but in my opinion the state neglected its task and was thus a poor guarantor. On the 31st of March - so on Monday - the NRK had a suggestion that an Eastern European woman had volunteered as surrogate mother for a Norwegian couple who paid the woman and took over the child. She did it to get money for herself and the family in dire need. On Tuesday, the focus of the NRK was on the issue of child trafficking. The purchase and sale of children took place again, as was also done in parts of the Norwegian post-war period. The postwar trade didn't give many mothers much money. The money went to adoptive mothers and adoption lawyers in many cases. The authorities knew about their activities, but nevertheless the control of these private, often unprofessional, intermediaries was minimal. It is important for me to say that many adopted people came to good families, even in the postwar period. The point is that control varied greatly. The state at the county often made the job easy for the more or less unprofessional intermediaries, such as midwives and adoption lawyers, by not checking that the adoptive parents were good enough for the job. The County conducted much more superficial and fewer studies of the adoptive parents than of the serious intermediaries, such as the United Kingdom. Oslo Health Council, Adoption Office, did. For example, they seriously gave mothers the opportunity to change their mind. The child was not given away until after two months. The unprofessional gave the child away to the foster parents, later adoptive parents, after two or three days. The serious ones even checked those who wanted to become adoptive parents. They investigated the economy, housing relationships, relatives, friends, and they cooperated with different authorities, such as contributors, urban rights, child protection subjects, and nutritional topics. They also required a medical certificate and a new X-ray due to the risk of lung disease. The unprofessional intermediaries had it easier. The foster parents applied to become adoptive parents, and within a few days, weeks or months this was arranged as follows: They presented a marriage certificate, a record of good conduct from the police or a lieutenant, an equation certificate from the last fiscal year, and a certificate that adoption would be assumed to be beneficial to the child. Such a certificate could be obtained from a civil servant, for example: a priest or a mariner. You could obtain a certificate from two private people who had to state their position and address. In such cases, the police or county police officer had to confirm that these two were credible and reliable persons. In other words, the examinations were minimal. As I said, many children came to the benefit of adoptive parents and were well-grown by circumstances, including those communicated by the more unprofessional actors. Other children came to adoptive parents who certainly had good intentions, but who were unable to handle the child, which could be revealed by a better control. They could not realize that the child had his or her own will, a genetic inheritance, and the need for his or her own development. When the child did not behave as they would, the doll they had bought, the adoptive parents began to repent. They had literally bought the cats in the bag, as it appears in one of the reports about this relationship in the Smälen newspaper. Being constantly told that ‘you can’t do this to us, we who paid so much for you’, can be very devastating for a child’s development. So it's not just about physical abuse, which is also seen in a mentioned interview in the Smålen newspaper, but also about mental abuse, which characterizes the adopted people throughout their lives. Also, this abuse could have been avoided if the state had done a real job investigating the adoptive parents. Of course, adoptive children can have poor parents even if the studies are good. But the state at the county did not take the children and their carnal mothers seriously enough at the time. They left the children to their own fate without doing enough to make sure they would get it right. The adoption was to benefit the child, said the adoption law of 1917. This most important part of the law was grossly broken on several occasions. So far, the evil-willed adopted have been unknown to them why they got it like this. They did not know where to turn. They have not even known that the problems they have had are common to many others, and that this is the cause of them too many. Last year came the book "Mothers Without Children", written by Björn Steinar Meyer. Now they know, and I know, more. They've got an explanation and a story. We don't know -- at least I don't know -- how many people came to poor parents. No one has in retrospect examined how things have gone with the children, but as one I have met, said: After all, some of us have probably gone badly. This neglect is important for the public to take over, in line with the neglect of tattoos, children's protection and German children. I would like to add that when I met this story, it became quite strange, because I am a social worker and have been trained in the Castberg child labourers. It's some of the professional pride I got in the luggage in my education. So these came almost 100 years ago, and they were going to make sure that children were born outside of normal marriage, they were going to be fine. The story that I describe takes place approximately. 40 years later. It is a very heavy reminder of how late fundamental conditions in a society, socially and culturally, change, although governments with a broad base have adopted good laws with good intentions. It doesn't change the situation for those involved, but it's a very heavy reflection on social policy. It's not new to me, I've met it in many other areas: that we have strong ideals, which we do our best for or strive to achieve. In this case, at least this hindrance, the contrast between it, let me say, the social political heritage I got with me in my education, and what I've met in these stories, has become so strong that it has led me to use the right I have as a magnificant, to promote this interpelation. My intention is that I would like to hear whether the Council of State will review this adoption activity more closely, for example. equivalent to the work carried out in the case of orphanages, or if she otherwise wishes to meet the people concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e777	The representative Dørum, in his interpellation, puts the spotlight on an epoch in Norwegian adoption history where social conditions were completely different from those we know today, not least in relation to the situation of single mothers. It was a period during and after the war that was characterized by social and economic conditions that were partly difficult. It was also difficult for many children who were born of single mothers. Many people were drawn to stigmatizing terms such as ‘loose young’ and ‘unfit’. For many women, therefore, adoption became the only real option. The representative Dørum will have the honor to take up this relationship in our close history. He also contributes in part to meeting some of the objectives of the interpellation, namely to focus on a part of Norwegian adoption history. Although some may wish to focus on adoption issues during the period, it is not possible that everyone wants a focus. It is not necessarily the case that all those who have adopted away children in this period want to be called up by a public investigation commission. It can be seen as difficult for a lot of people. Adopted is also not a uniform group, and many of those who were adopted away in that period are not aware of it even today. That is why I think we should be careful before, if necessary, launching a survey. It'll be able to arouse strong emotions, and break into new and established family relationships. Although we have to assume that the vast majority of people grew up well, we are familiar with simple stories that are here being taken up in a good and thorough way. But we have to be careful to draw general conclusions. I am concerned that we regard this as an important matter. Former State Council Bekkemmen signalled that she would launch a public inquiry into Norwegian adoption policy. To this end, it will be important to look at how adult adopted people should be taken care of when they seek information about their biological parents and about their adoption case. Individuals who have suffered innocently during growth in adoptive families may apply to the Grand Duchy for cheap payments. This scheme is precisely designed to ensure individual compensation for those who have come out unluckily compared to others in the same situation. Those who today believe that they have suffered from congestion as a result of an adoption carried out during that period may therefore benefit from the cheap compensation scheme. Our adoption legislation extends back to 1917. So from 1917 to 2006, more than 65,000 adoptions have been registered. When we got a general welfare development and it was easier to be accepted as a single mother, the number of adopted in Norway was reduced with Norwegian background. In 2003, there were only three such cases in Norway. Adoption communication is about finding adoptive parents of the individual child. During the period Dørum talks about, and mentioned in the good book of Bjørn Steinar Meyer, ‘Mothers without children’, midwives accepted pregnant women offering ‘discreet residence’ at the end of pregnancy and at birth. Then we got a new Children's Protection Act in 1953, where it was forbidden for individuals to run adoption agencies. The ban was punishable. The organisation of a public adoption agency gradually took shape in the 1950s to 1970s. So it's clear that the authorities have improved in this area. Single boilers, as described in particular. book the representative Dørum refers to, makes a strong impression. I have a great understanding of those who have had to live in such a difficult situation. Bjørn Steinar Meyer also describes in the book a woman's vision that I'm happy we've put behind us. But despite double morals and sad individualisms, Meyer's book is not entirely without hope and joy. There were children who came to a good and loving home, and this too is well described in this book. In our days, we often present the 1950s as the happy hometime where people had time for care and time for each other. However, care was not always unconditional. If you broke social norms, you didn't necessarily get part of the same social community. If you were, for example, same or traveling, got pregnant without being married, or was gay, the condemnation was great. It was harmony, but it wasn't always so easy to be different. As I said initially, it is difficult to define adopted as a uniform group, but I will refer to St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004 on the compensation scheme for children in war and compensation schemes for Roma/taters and elderly women suffering from educational injury, as Minister of Justice Dørum, at the time, presented in 2004. His conclusion, expressed in the biggest report, was that all future reasonableness-based requirements of different groups in society should be addressed through the Grand Britain’s cheap substitutes scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e803	Of course, state councils don't want to talk about it in general when it comes to thousands of adoptions since 1917. I haven't done that either. I've been going into Norwegian history at some point -- and let me stay a little bit at it. In this period of Norwegian history, I grew up. I still remember those who went to so-called special schools. It was very clear to me that they did that, and I know what it meant for me to view that kind of business later on. Then later, as a good adult, I learned about lobotomy and forced sterilization. This led to some of the claims that Huitfeldt the Council of State now raised. We learned about orphanages. There appeared relationships that were unknown to me. They were also unknown to me when I was educated as a social worker, but they came up. I have had no intention of doing anything but getting it on the agenda. I think the Council of State has answered me very well, and I think she gives two important comments. First of all, she says she wants to look at Norwegian adoption policy, which I think is wise anyway. I also agree with her that the authorities have clearly improved, of course they do. But it could be an opportunity in such a situation to ask those who have something to say, to report. It's not a systematic review of who did what, but it's a systematic call for those who want to be time witnesses to report. The background that I've traveled this interpellation is time witnesses, witnesses who have signed up. They've taken that challenge and burden there's too many to stand up with their faces and tell. And such an investigation as the Council of State is talking about gives us an opportunity to get what has been good, but also an opportunity to get what has not been good. To give time witnesses an opportunity to be heard -- perhaps especially against this story where the Council of State and I agree that we did not have the controls we should have, and also agree that there have been clear and strong improvements since that -- is to give them a chance to be seen and heard. Through the stories of time witnesses, the responsible authorities will have a chance to make up their minds about what this is. Then you also avoid what the Council of State says about not imposing anything on anyone. Of course, I totally agree that you shouldn't, but that gives those who want to say from, an opportunity to do that. Then I also realized that some people wanted to say something about economics. It has not been the primary purpose of my interpellation. I am very aware of the proposal made by the Council of State, Huitfeldt, to use the cheap substitutes system - and to quote on it - ‘with its application’. The size has adopted some of these measures. It hasn't been my main theme here. Others may think that it should have been a main theme, but for me it has not been. For me, the main theme has been to get the story illuminated. And I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on the idea I have of giving the witnesses an opportunity to be heard in discussing Norwegian adoption policy, as she described in her statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e816	I want to give Dørum honor to the representative for a very nuanced approach to these questions. I hear from the representative's descriptions that he has spoken to many people who are in this situation. So do I. And for some, being called up and examined will be a new intrusion. So contact between the authorities and time witnesses must be based on those who volunteer, those who want to get attention. The fact that we're now starting a job with a NOU to go through the entire adoption field gives us an opportunity to discuss this. So this I think is an interesting input, which I want to take with me when we're going to work on mandate and composition of such a sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e830	The representative Dørum describes the relationship with post-war adoption as it's good we're even. I have not read the book to which the representative refers, and post-war wounds I know first and foremost through the history books. My perception is that one time there was a society different from what we have today -- where the view of women, the view of Alein mothers, and probably also the perception of what was the best of children, was different than today. Social conditions were different. And so were the economics. It's far from today's economic prosperity to the many that experienced in everyday life. Today almost did not suggest that biological parents in Norway should adopt away their child. That parents couldn't afford to take care of their kids was, unfortunately, a much more common reason for adoption before, and too many lone parents can only imagine what it was like. Adoption in the 1940s and 1950s was therefore certainly the mark of the social opinion society had of single, single mothers, but also of tough economic realities for many. Despite the fact that most people today live with a good economy, that we have a relatively open and tolerant society, and that the awareness of children and children's best is very strong, it is nevertheless that too many children experience that the relationship with parents, that care and life are not the way it should be. This was certainly the case in the 1940s and 1950s, and this is the case today. There's a lot of reasons for that. The adoption ratio at that time may be one reason, but it was and are many others. I believe that applies to all parental-child relationships, both at that time and today. Fortunately, they are all, most children are well and have a good upbringing. I think that also applies to the vast majority of those who were adopted in the period of Dørum's focus. So I agree with the Council of State that identifying a single group of adoptions from the period we're talking about is difficult. Adoption mediation is currently governed by the adoption law. There is an independent selection for the adoption of children living in Norway, and there are some tough demands on those who want to become parents and who are in the central register of adoption seekers: there is thorough information for the biological parents of the child about what adoption is, and it is possible for the parents who want it to be consulted on the issue of adoption. And the most important of all: it's the best thing for the child that's always going to be the deciding thing. However, many people feel that not everything is perfect in today’s adoption agency either. The former State Council, Mr Bekkemmen, announced a review of the whole adoption field, as State Council, Huitfeldt, has done well. I support the Council of State that in this review one should be able to see more closely how mature adopted persons should be taken care of when they contact to find information about their biological parents and about their adoption case. I believe that in a good way, I will meet the wishes that I perceive the representative Dørum made available in his contributions. Those who experience that they have suffered innocently during the growth of an adoptive family, I think I should look at the possibility that exists within the Stortinge's cheap substitute scheme. Although it was not obvious what the representative intended to focus on with this interpellation, at least it is a possible answer for those who have suffered innocently in growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e849	I want to thank the interpellant for focusing on a very dark story in women and children's lives. I myself am a midwife from Eastfold, and I have received many children who have been adopted away right after birth. It's always bad for them. The author Bjørn Steinar Meyer, in his report book ‘Mothers Without Children’, has directed the search for a dark chapter in Norwegian adoption history. It's not a merry story Meyer serves in the book. The stories in the book are about 16- and 17-year-old girls who had to go to the Witch to hide their growing stomachs. It is a privately-practiced adoption agency that was primarily business-based for those who supported this practice. After that time, the legal framework for adoption communication has changed - fortunately. In the past, individuals were free to engage in intermediary activities without public funding requirements. I would like to mention that the author of this book in a newspaper essay in Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad on 15 November says about the practice of midwives that it was ‘just business, but she was a necessary evil in society’. Fortunately, women now have other rights - including children. Fortunately, we have another abortion law. Fortunately, we now have economic rights in the welfare state of Norway that allow women to care for their own children and get support for it, but we should not ignore the fact that this is still happening in large parts of the world. The review of the new Child Protection Act in 1953 highlighted the need for effective control with both the dissemination of adoption and the placement of children in foster homes. Such intermediary activities were prohibited under the Child Protection Act. Having said that, I would like to stress that although the adoption practices described in this book were very critical, it does not mean that all children who were adopted had problems in their adoptive homes. Nor has it been given that an adoption relationship that has developed unluckily necessarily has its direct cause in how the adoption itself was implemented. There may be many reasons why an adoption relationship develops negatively, in the same way as other parent-child relationships. I mean, we don't have 100 pst. guarantee that this does not happen or will happen in the future. SV is therefore committed to facilitating good arrangements for all the parties to adoption cases. I therefore assume that the review of the adoption field signaled by the former Council of State, Mr. Bekkemmen, will also address further how adults adopted should be taken care of when they seek information about their biological parents and about their adoption case. From the debate and from what the Council of State has now said in its statement, I feel confident that this will be reviewed. With regard to the matters presented in the book, and with regard to matters relating to the extension of these that have been explained in the press, I cannot decide, based on the information that has been obtained, whether or not there is a basis for claims. Of course, anyone who considers that they have a basis for claims may do so in an ordinary way. An action for damages against the State will normally be dealt with and resolved through the existing legislation to deal with such claims. Adoption decisions differ by the fact that it may be problematic to prove that there have been errors in the procedure, and that this is so serious that it means that it triggers compensation. I therefore believe - from the SV's point of view - that the cheap compensation scheme is the most appropriate scheme. Finally, I would like to say: this is a dark story for women and children that we now have, through a law and through changes both through abortion laws and welfare schemes, left behind us. As a midwife, I am very, very happy that we now have a society that takes this seriously. I put my trust in the fact that the Council of State is following up what the former Council of State has said in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e868	Two considerations, first of all a historical one: in Norway, we have action plans against violence in close relationships, but we do not believe - and none of us believe it - that there is violence in all Norwegian homes. We just have to admit that it took a long time from the crisis centres to meet this until the authorities made the first action plan, which I was on, very long time - a long time from the witnesses said it. It is that society often has phenomena around it. At the time I grew up, and at the time I was educated as a social worker, there was nothing when I learned about the Castberg Children's Laws, which told me anything about what is the topic here today. There is often a delay in the understanding of society. There's no remorse against anyone, it's like that. Sometimes people have little or no voice for different reasons, not because they can't talk, but because they find it difficult to find the channels. I've only had one matter here. Just as I have heard in my life women who have been subjected to sexual mutilation, coercion, trafficking, violence in close relations, just to say so, and have not generalized, but tried to find answers and instruments, it is with the same listening ability that I have tried to listen to someone that I have taken in this matter. I do not believe, of course, that this applies to all adopted people, but it concerns this part of Norwegian history at a certain time. So it's made an impression on me, and that's why I drew the case out, that there are some things that often last for a long time, even if we want it to be different. The second point is that I think the Council of State already in the first round and in the small exchange of lines we had, gave an opening for something that I thought was neat and serious. It's: when you review Norwegian adoption history and touch sensitive things, it's quite possible to give some witnesses a speech. Let me remind you that some of the most tardiness we've had is Norwegian intelligence -- I know a little about that. So we've created a Norwegian intelligence history from 1914 to 1997 that touches quite a few not entirely heroic parts of Norwegian history. I'm not going to spend time on it right now. But let me say it so that it has been thoughtful, and it has also been of some comfort to those who have been exposed to something. I have full confidence that the Council of State Huitfeldt here will find a form of work and a way that makes what is to be drawn out of wisdom become wise, and that witnesses who want to tell a story in a tidy way can get it done. I think it's a way to make sure someone gets a voice, and then it's going to be the voices that speak for themselves. Then I fully agree with other representatives that if you want to go ahead with something about economics, it's going to be a different matter than this interpellation that I've had here today. But it's my life's experience that it happens that you live in your time, and you don't know your story. It happens that you get textbooks, and you don't know your story, but then it shows up violently, and then you have to sort it out. I am glad that it has been possible to use the staging room for such a conversation. I am using that word about the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e886	I thank you for a very good discussion with both social workers, midwives and politicians. I think we understand our own time better if we also understand our past better. We have a tendency in our society to glorify the past that everything was better before, the time it was cohesion. But it was also much harder to be different. We live in a more liberal and rustier society today. Nabokjerriga was better enough to care in the old days, but she was also quite nice to care about what she had nothing to do with. So it's our story that we have to learn something from. We've now focused on some of the adoptive children who came to difficult homes. It is important that we listen to them, listen to their stories. But this book that the representative Dørum referred to also gives examples of some good stories. The girl who was adopted away, and the father who used to say, "You didn't bring the stork, you brought Bastøferja." She wrote a poem to her mother, where she concludes: "Dear mother, thank you for giving me birth and giving me away.Many more would do as you did. Thank you.» Say hello to your daughter. Many of those who have been adopted have come home well, and it is also important that we remember it in the discussion that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e907	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e923	We have seen a desired development by increasing liver age, and many elderly people have good health and are doing well. Nevertheless, the health system is facing major challenges due to the strong growth in the number of old, but also other seriously ill people in need of care services, which are to be provided to the greatest extent possible in their own municipality. One of the problems is that there is often a wide range of professional opportunities between the services provided by the municipality and that provided by the hospital. It's a "missing link" -- we're missing some kind of one-way service. From 2001 to 2005, the number of days spent in hospitals was reduced by almost 9 pst, but the number of redeployments is increasing, especially for those over 80 years. Both resource use and the professional competence of hospitals are too low for some of the patients that hospitals define as ready-to- print. When we are aware of the objective of healthcare companies to further reduce the number of days spent on bed, patients will need a better offer on the outside of the hospital. The very objective of shorter hospitalisation does not need to be negative for patients, and many patients can benefit from treatment outside the hospital if appropriate treatment and care facilities are available. Intermediate departments are being established in more and more municipalities in cooperation with hospitals. These intermediate departments have professionally qualified staff to carry out more advanced treatment and care than is the case in the ordinary hospital wards. The operating costs of these municipal units are higher than those of normal hospitals but lower than those of hospitals. A randomised study was conducted at St. Olav’s Hospital, where it was found that patients who had received post- or pre-treatment in an intermediate department had fewer reintroductions and lower mortality. It was also found that the total cost of treatment and care for the disease period was 25 pst. lower for patients in intermediate departments. The reason was that these people get a much better treatment and aftertreatment than they can get in the ordinary community health service. Oslo Municipality and more and more other municipalities want to cooperate with the hospitals in order to establish units, which can provide a good offer for the elderly to be discharged from the hospital. Several different funding and cooperation models are being developed by healthcare businesses. In the Trondheim model, an annual grant from St. Olav's Hospital of $3 million was granted. kr. In Halden, grants were also given in the form of qualifications from a doctor or outpatient clinic. In some cases, the municipality is also the tenant of the hospital’s premises, but this may vary from place to place. In Halden there was a two-year project that was completed last summer. Project funding was set up to avoid re-introduction. So it wasn't post-treatment, it wasn't post-treatment, it wasn't post-treatment. This was directed at patients with infection, moderate worsening of heart failure or coal patients. Fewer hospitals may well mean closing several bedposts physically, and this will also mean extra costs for the municipalities, which are required to have an offer for patients they often do not have. This does not just mean that you have to come up with more skills. There will also be a large extra cost for the municipalities that they have not had until now. This leads, as we see the beginning of, to intermediate sites being closed again after they were newly created. The local economy plays a major role. It is not enough just to look at the capacity of the nursing homes. There is a great need to look at special skills and specialised units. Today, hospitals of specialised and nursing homes are too poorly manned and lacking skills. There are many patients who end up in a grey zone. There may be cancer patients, elderly patients with severe diseases, terminally ill patients, chronically ill, mentally ill and drug users. In order to enable hospitals to be better equipped to meet the needs of patients, separate units such as palliative units, chronically ill patients with debilitating behaviour, as we discussed on Tuesday, Alzheimer’s unit, parkinsonism unit, Down syndrome unit, MS unit, younger traffic injury unit and old drug addict unit should be set up. These are some of the departments you can imagine there will be a need to set up. These are departments that will need special expertise, a high manning factor, and many of these residents depend on expensive medicine. It will not be possible for municipalities to finance the operation of these types of units within the current funding system, where health care homes also cover the cost of medicines. Palliation has its origins in the hospice movement. Over the last 15-20 years, several different palliative offers have been established. Through earmarked funds for government budgets, funds are allocated to establish projects in the field of lessening treatment in municipalities. In 2005, this went to 61 projects, of which Fredrikstad received NOK 250000, which were used for training and networking, but there are still no palliative hospitals, because this is very expensive to operate. Relieving treatment and care aimed at both the physical, mental, social and spiritual needs of the patient and the family, respecting their personal, cultural and religious anchoring, is carried out by interdisciplinary teams, by well-qualified, professional and voluntary, and care should be provided in a patient and family-centred framework. This will give very many of those who need it, a worthy end to life. The Gjøvik University and Norwegian Association of Palliative Medicine report that there are at all times around 15 000 people in need of such care. The funding of relieving treatment was provided from 2003 through the ISF scheme linked to a DRG code, but specific requirements have been set for institutions to trigger this tariff. The problem is that this money is not paid to the hospitals. Funding for relieving treatment in hospitals is still not in place. This is one of the main challenges for the further development of the palliative supply of time to come, and a rapid solution is needed. With regard to the provision of rehabilitation services in municipalities, it is difficult to draw borders and there is a large grey area. The borderline between the responsibility of the municipalities and the responsibility of health care establishments may be difficult to draw, and in many cases it needs to be clarified through dialogue and cooperation between the parties concerned. Often it is also seen that the result is that patients do not receive the necessary rehabilitation offer and that the dialogue and cooperation that this requires has not been achieved. Jan Bøhler has stated on several occasions that there should be a different funding for rehabilitation than today for what falls under the responsibility of the municipalities. But this is, at least as I see it, just one of several areas that need a new assessment of how it should be financed. We lack good rehabilitation places for those who can receive rehabilitation in their municipalities. The opportunities they have to meet today's needs for specialised services also vary greatly from one municipality to another. In order to be able to respond more easily to the clear need for such offers, legislation and financial instruments need to change so that Leon treatment can be provided. The Leon principle requires that it should be a competence, not just to get an offer in your own municipality. It has to be ensured that the patient groups I have mentioned here are not exposed to a black player game between different actors and at different levels. The needs for treatment, care and care services have increased considerably, and one thing is at least certain: the increase will continue. To meet these challenges of providing the best possible services, there needs to be more comprehensive organisation and funding than the one we have today. The Progress Party has on many occasions proposed the establishment of financial instruments linked to the service itself and accompanying the patient and not to levels of administration. But it is not just the Progress Party that sees today's funding and the local economy to a great extent lead to great differences, and that these differences do not reflect patients' or the needs of the population. As I said, I have registered that Jan Bøhler on several occasions, including: In a TV debate a few months ago, in which the Council of State was also present, it has come to the conclusion that there is a need to look at the financing of, among other things. the rehabilitation of the municipalities. It gave me hope that the Government would assess the financing of other parts of the treatment offer that the municipalities are currently financing under the framework grant. Does the Council of State share Jan Bøhler's vision? And: Can it also be relevant for the Government to consider another funding for the areas I am dealing with in this interpellation, where expensive services will be increasingly needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e963	In the last decade, significant changes have been made in specialist health services and municipal health services, as the interpellant also mentioned. Developments in municipalities are characterised by the fact that more people receive services - both older people and people under the age of 67. Many live in hospitals or nursing homes, and more than once can live at home thanks to technological developments and highly skilled personnel. Close follow-up from nursing and care services and good cooperation between the hospital and the services in the municipalities are required when patients are to be expelled from hospital. I believe that the health and care services in the municipalities are the foundation of our health service. People will receive good, sound services where they live and live, and they will be helped to seek out specialist health services when needed. As we know, municipalities will face major challenges in the years to come. It's getting older. That's good! But it also means that more people will need treatment and help for illness and disability. Over the course of 30-40 years, there will be twice as many 80-year-olds as it is today. The strong growth is about 2020, and that means that we need to expand the services, and that we need a lot of skilled personnel. Another challenge is new and younger user groups. Today, one third of those who receive care are under 67 years of age. The main groups are people with mental disorders and people with chronic diseases who will need more services throughout their lives, often services requiring special professional skills. It is also a challenge to have sufficient labour in different disciplines and to have voluntary carers set up to a large extent. Last but not least, studies show that care services are often scarce in the cultural and social fields. If we are to succeed in getting a more active profile of the offer, we need a wider range of professionals and more professionals into the health and care service. In the care plan 2015, we have set up a tough policy course and a predictable framework that is a prerequisite for the local authorities' efforts to improve care services in the coming years. I agree with the interpellant that we need to strengthen the municipal care service, both in the home and in the nursing home. In the 2015 care plan, the main areas are strengthening the capacity, competence and quality of these services. Investment grants shall be granted to 12000 new hospital and nursing homes until 2015. Overall, this means NOK 6 billion over the state budget in the coming years, if we deal with these plans. The government's target of 10,000 new annual work in the care sector in 2009 is fixed, and preliminary signals indicate that we are ahead of the form. Preliminary figures from the Statistical Central Agency show an increase in the number of annual works in 2007. Preliminary plans for 2008 show that municipalities will continue to give priority to care, and through the Competence Plan 2015, we will qualify, train and further train more than 24 000 new people. In Demenplan 2015, we have an action programme for good dementia care related to several adapted housing services, more and better daily provision and increased knowledge and competence. This government has been committed to strengthening free income, and municipalities have largely prioritised care services. I trust that it is the municipalities that can best assess the needs of users in each municipality for different services. According to the Government’s assessment, users’ interests are best safeguarded through a framework financing system for the municipal sector. The purpose of the municipal sector's income system is, of course, to ensure equivalent services to all - irrespective of where you live in the country. As the interpellant is aware, there are different funding systems for specialist health services and municipal health and care services. It is important that we have funding systems that do not prevent good, professional solutions that provide better quality for the patient. Here, the government is going to set things right better than what's happening today, and there's something the government is working on right now. We are all concerned about getting better interaction between municipalities and hospitals. We know that it is most often in the transition between the levels of health care it fails. Therefore, cooperation between primary health services, decision-makers, specialists and hospitals is an overall objective. We see that the bet starts to give fruit. Through the agreement entered into by the Government with the Local Governments’ Central Association on interaction, we will strengthen and further develop good cooperation actions. One important objective of this agreement is that it should lead to the conclusion by all municipalities and health care establishments of local cooperation agreements. At present, better cooperation practices are being developed across the country, for example: within the development of competence. Intermediate units are being developed in which primary and specialist health services cooperate with very good results. Specialist health services provide mobile teams, where specialists leave hospitals and offer services where the user is - be it in their own home or in their homes. Decentralisation of services and good interaction solutions often mean that the patient can receive specialist health services near the home. This is what the Government wants more of. From 2004 onwards, the responsibility for financing sick transport, as is known, was transferred from public health to regional health businesses. It has many advantages, including: that once the financial responsibility for treatment and sick transport is combined in one place, it will also encourage a greater commitment to decentralised specialist health services because the cost of sick transport will be reduced. I believe that the specialist healthcare service needs to assist municipal health and social services to a much greater extent than today. To do this, we need more specialist health services in the vicinity of the municipalities. This is especially true in geriatrics, dementia, strokes, and offers to people with complex disorders and disabilities - to mention some examples. In a comprehensive and comprehensive healthcare system, we need to ensure that both levels of service contribute to the development of good, safe and equivalent treatment provision across the country. The aim is to improve the quality of the patient’s services, no matter where healthcare is provided. We see that several good interaction measures are on the steps, and we see that more people are gradually finding appropriate solutions. I mean, we're on the right track. The government will look at how we can further contribute to speeding up more good interaction actions. I think Saupstad Hospital in Trondheim is a brilliant example of how this can be done - in cooperation between St. Olav's Hospital and Trondheim Municipality. It is very clear that the way in which they have organized themselves through the intermediate department of elderly patients provides fewer reindeer and lower mortality than traditional hospital treatment. I think it's all about this being a very good example of how to carry out an organization. We need a lot more Saupstads elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1001	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is not so much difference between how the Council of State views the challenges of the future, and the challenges I described in my contribution. It's very similar there. But that was the funding I took up in my post. I am concerned that today's funding may prevent us from developing the offers as they will - and as they already are - need. The Council of State is constantly repeating these 12 000 places to which construction grants have been granted. First, the building grant is only 25 pst. Of what it costs to build a place - but what I talked about in the post was actually the operation of the offer. That's what will cost a lot. The grant is only a small disadvantage in relation to what the municipality has to expect in order to run an offer over time. The same applies to the 10,000 jobs left each time someone from the Government has posts relating to such themes. They are soon established according to the Government. You can't see the big improvement. The challenges I'm talking about are not in place today -- so this is looking ahead. There are certainly good examples of the good cooperation agreements made by healthcare companies with municipalities. Municipalities are in different ways able, both economically and in relation to the offer they already have, to fulfil such wishes. On 1 April, we were able to read in Halden Dagblad about a rather frustrated selection of principal trusts from the Norwegian Nursing Association that gave the Workers’ Party the hat fit. The local working party in Halden is adding 70 million. kr too little for the health sector. I don't know how the council will explain that this is happening. It is also in Halden that half of the intermediate department is closed, which was created with project funding two years ago. In many cases, initiating actions with project funding may be very good, but I believe that such actions will also be taken. It always depends on the municipality's priorities and finances in terms of as heavy and important offers as what I have mentioned in the debate here, I think it is very easy. It also turns out that the Workers' Party in the municipalities where they have control is not in fact able to give the offer that the Council of State believes they should be able to make. This isn't just about being the best local person to look at needs, as mentioned in the article. In fact, local skills are not able to respond to the offer that patients will be able to demand from their municipality. More and more is being pushed down to a lower level. This costs, and the money has actually not come along the same way. I hope the Council of State can explain why this is happening in labor party-driven municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1014	Let me first say that it is quite obvious that everything is not perfect in the care of the elderly in Norwegian municipalities, but what Giltun said here from this pulpit -- if I heard correctly, and with all my reservations, she said something near that we have seen that there is no local ability to meet people's needs -- that's a pretty strong statement. I think we have a lot of good examples that the municipalities actually prioritize care. If we look at it on a national basis, there is no doubt that the increased sums of money that this government - unlike the government supported by Giltun - has given to the municipalities, mainly to care for in very many municipalities. When the representative Giltun stands here and says that she will not hear more about the annual work or about this “minor,” which she mentioned last year’s new investment grant that, with respect to reporting, is something that very many local politicians will not recognize. I also think that setting up a new grant that will help us get more hospitals, more nursing homes and more money, which can eventually also help us get more Saupstads elsewhere in the country, will be very good for the patients who need it. And, yes, this government is going to "mass" on annual work, because there's something that helps us to do better to give better quality to those who need it, there's people -- a lot of people with good skills. What was the situation in the previous ageing period was that very many municipalities had to cut precisely in e.g. day activities and the kind of thing because it was too tight in the municipalities. So it's very important to get a lot of people with good skills in order to do good enough quality in what's being offered. So I think one should continue that way as one, for example. have now started at Ullevål Hospital, that specialists take the x-ray device out from there, travel around the hospital and take the X-ray there, that one ensures that older people who are sick and in some context also dying are not admitted to hospital if this is not necessary. Very many elderly, sick people can get better treatment by staying in their homes, with competent staff. Therefore, it is not a goal for the most elderly or others to enter the hospital, but that they should receive the best possible treatment based on their situation in life - where they need the help, and not primarily in hospitals. Therefore, it is important that specialist health services go out and cooperate more closely with the municipalities where help is needed, when it is the right treatment for each individual person. So this government is very busy doing even more to contribute to good models of interaction, and there I know that we have many wise local politicians with us who have already gone ahead, such as. Trondheim municipality and a hospital there. My goal is to get it to other parts of the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1025	The interpellant addresses a matter that concerns many, but which has also been discussed here with different inferences in recent times. It is difficult to disagree that it is important to focus on this with good patient treatment, especially for the sick. But it's probably more than money that has to be in place, even though it's an important part of it. We need, among other things: good local hospitals with departments with general medical competence, which in the emergency phase take care of those patients and which can then pass them on to the municipalities. In its response, the Council of State has referred to some of our solutions, which are many and good. I particularly want to bring forward a strengthened municipal economy, which enables each municipality to receive those who need it. A better community economy will provide better health care coverage, stable home care and good interaction with specialist health services and qualified staff - with better competence and interdisciplinary skills as a key instrument. Political will is also required in each municipality to take action, and responsibility is not shifted to the specialist health service and frees itself. It is, as the Council of State said, the municipalities that have the primary responsibility, which is the base wall. Many municipalities take that responsibility, and very well happens. We have all heard the stories about municipalities that speculate that hospital layday is cheaper, and they pay what they have to pay instead of building up their own offers. We're not going to have it that way. The Labour Party believes that it is in the municipalities that the type of care is to be provided, and it is the individual local authorities who are to determine the level of care in each municipality. Unlike the Progress Party, which wants this government to do, we want local politicians to do this important local job. Equivalence is an objective, but it must also reflect the political choices made by individual voters. It's as well-known the difference between what we mean by equivalence-- from the red-green and from the civil side. A review of attitudes among those who treat sick and needy is a continuous process. Ethical dilemmas regarding further treatment should be discussed more frequently. Very many patients should not be moved at all - it should be from home to hospital, from hospital to hospital or vice versa. If they, as the interpellant says, are so bad that they die on the road or shortly afterwards, they should be allowed to be where they are. It's about respect and dignity, and it should be a discussion that we take more often. Then we have to enable hospital workers and home nurses to have the bad patients and give the good treatment we want. The 2015 quality lift should ensure this. We've repeatedly discussed that in this room. We must provide staff with the opportunity to complete their professional training, refresher training and general training in order to ensure that they are offered. The government's many plans in the various areas ensure that we have this in focus, and the Council of State mentions several of these elements. Everyone forms a whole in the care we want. There are many good examples around the municipalities that you can build up and operate very many good offers, where employees have good qualifications, where you can treat much more than what is traditionally done in a nursing home. It has the side effect of attracting skilled workers there, because it is exciting and professionally challenging to work there. I have good examples from both Larvik and Sandefjord, where one has good units that achieve the same, and where the cooperation with the specialist health service is perceived as good. The interpellant also mentions rehabilitation and calls for it. There again I will refer to an offer that is in Larvik. A rehabilitation centre called the Presteløkka was built up by means of major political efforts from the local Progress Party. That's where it works. They have a good cooperation with the SSR Coast Hospital. The pulpit is strategically located right next to it. They take advantage of the coastal hospital pool, collaborate on patients, participate in professional days and internal education, and get practical tips on problem solving. The parishioner recruits from the hospital primarily, and the majority of those who come there go straight home afterwards. Presteløkka is a good example of follow-up, and shows that municipalities can make good rehabilitation services, which the interpellant calls for. Good interactions are needed, as expressed by the Council of State, and here KS is an important piece. Getting good printing practices and meeting places in place will facilitate the challenges to which the interpellant refers, because this is related to one of the frustrations experienced by the municipalities. I believe that the Council of State has pointed out in many more ways, both in terms of funding and action, in addition to those I mention, and I think we are doing this very well in the way the Red-Green Government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1048	I am pleased that Mr Giltun's representative has produced this interpellation. As the Council of State probably thinks, I have asked a written question to the Council of State on the same theme. I got the standard response from the red-green government: we have given a lot of money to the municipalities, and the government party only has sensible local politicians who manage the funds. From this rhetoric, there should be no difficulty in financing heavy user groups within the care of the elderly. I could stand for a long time on this pulpit and tell the Council of State of the Missing Priorities around the Municipality of Norway, but this should be quite unnecessary, as I expect the Council of State to have received a speechless signal both from the media and from individuals about the lack of priority in the elderly. The red-greens have to assume that they have created great expectations in the municipalities through election campaigns and in later rhetoric that only the red-greens got government power, they would be means to everything. I know that now in Kommune-Noreg there is his local politician with the beard in the famous mailbox. They have invested in culture and other measures with great confidence that there will be enough money to go to school, health and everything else. My claim is - and I believe I have large groups of local politicians around the municipality of Norway who will be in complete agreement with me - that a national force must be taken if one is to be able to meet the demand for, and the need for, skills and institutional places when the wave of older people strikes. Why can't rain eartag resources for the elderly, such as the elderly? Have you been in kindergarten? It may seem that the group of elderly caregivers is not the major theme of the red-green government’s priorities. I want to repeat what I started with about the government's showcasing list, of which local politicians and most people around the municipality of Norway have not seen much results. The red-green government now needs to see how they intend to tackle the ageing wave and the challenges of increasing patient weight as a result of early hospital outsourcing. Festive speeches about thousands of new hands did not seem to be left in the municipalities. If there is an overview from the County of Sogn and the Fjords of newly recruited care workers, which is the basis for the Government's alleged resource increase of nursing staff, it is far from being real. I want to ask the Council of State to get this list and take a few samples, and the Council of State itself will find out that this list is far from the real world. Now it has to be handled. Soft words in party speeches are not an own tool, but only lead to frustration among those who are in the municipality of Norway and are to be responsible for the challenges within the care of the elderly. The reason why the Progress Party will have a different way of financing is that we will get a targeted and fair priority. We in the Progress Party will have a result in the initiative in the care of the elderly. Festival speakers from red-green politicians don't help the elderly out in Kommune-Noreg to achieve a good quality of life in the last phase of life. If the Council of State and the rest of the Red-Green Panel take responsibility for a depriorization and reduction of the elderly out in the municipalities, there is of course a political choice that they make, but there is a choice that the Progress Party will not support in any way. When we come to government, we want targeted measures to strengthen care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1065	The major problem facing us in organising health and care policies in the decades to come is, on the one hand, the major demographic changes, and, on the other, the changing nature of the disease, not least in the older part of the population. the need for solutions and offers other than those established. The second major challenge we are facing is that the health sector is one of the largest and heaviest sectors in a modern society like Norwegian, and we all know that the bigger and heavier the systems become, the more difficult it becomes to reform them, that is. We get into a very easy situation that it's the users who have to adapt to the systems, and not the systems that have to adapt to the users. In today’s Norwegian debate, the specialist healthcare service is very often attracting almost all attention. There's a lot of evidence that we're actually spending too much of the total resources on specialist health care -- read: the hospitals -- and that's exactly why the flexibility in the system gets as small as it gets. We run and transport users over a low shoe - the transportation costs are almost 10 pst. of the costs of the health care system. We transport the users here and there, to the small pleasure of the users and with a rather meaningless consumption of transport costs. How can we get to systems where we move the competence where the users are instead of moving the users where the competence is? The older we get, the more important this issue becomes, of course. I have to shoot in, as a little side note, that it strikes me that the Progress Party also doesn't always coordinate its various performances particularly well. Because, at the same time as promoting this interpellation, which emphasises the importance of local solutions, an additional SEK 1.5 billion has been proposed to the specialist health service, which probably has too much of the resources already available. It should be possible to keep a little better track of the messages you send out. I believe that the importance of the interpellation lies in the reference to a number of areas where we see signs today that systems are starting to adapt to the needs of users. It's about the intermediate departments, which obviously have the future ahead of them. This concerns the desire to facilitate palliative care not only in the specialist health service but also in relation to, for example: health care services. There's a lot to pick up, and it doesn't have to be particularly costly. I also think it is important to bear in mind that, although the number of hospitals is important, we have found in the care report that the Stortinget dealt with not very long ago that half of the annual work effort in the care and care sector is outside institutions in the informal sector, i.e. in practice in a family context. There has not been a single word affected so far in this interpellation debate. But if we believe, as the government says, that it believes in the care message, that we must continue to do this, and that it is desirable that it should be so, then we must also be willing to take the consequences of it and ask: What measures are needed locally to enable close relatives to take that responsibility? There is a great deal of lack of action today, for example: for those who bear the responsibility for dementes, and especially in the long-range phase when dementia is being developed. So I think it's in these areas that we have to put the search light on if we're going to get what we're ideally looking for, that's a health care system that's for the users, and not a system where users have to adapt to the system we've built up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1084	We in SV believe that the funding system for specialist healthcare will not solve the challenges that municipalities face in order to provide patients with severe suffering and a high level of care an equivalent offer across the country. The challenge, as also pointed out by the Council of State, is to have enough skilled labour and enough institutional facilities with qualitatively good individualised services. But we also want a great need for voluntary care providers like family and people working in non-governmental organisations, which will be a major challenge in the future. These are also things that are highlighted in the care plan 2015. Like the Council of State, I have confidence that it is the municipalities that can best assess the needs of users for different services. According to the SV's assessment, users' interests are best safeguarded through a framework financing system for the municipal sector. However, we are also open to considering designation if the care services are not properly cared for. The Council of State stresses in its statement that it is important that the funding system is not an obstacle to achieving good solutions, and that the Government here will facilitate better conditions. I am very pleased to focus on the funding system, as we in the districts have pointed out many times in connection with, among other things. closure of local hospital activities. Personally, I think it is important to decide on the activities of the specialist health service in local hospitals before considering the funding model. This is absolutely necessary if the purpose of the income system is to ensure equivalent services to all irrespective of where they live in the country. We in SV have great faith in a system of decentralised specialist health services outside the hospitals, so that patients can get specialist health services near the home. But if this is best funded through an ISF scheme, we are very sceptical about it. I would like to take this opportunity to show that in Finnmark we have had very good experience with hospitalizations at the local health centres in the county, which we still see in SV as a very good solution, especially for patients with severe disorders and too seriously ill. We believe that this scheme should be extended in SV, because it will enhance the quality and interest of working at municipal health centres, while allowing patients to be sent home from hospital in the past and to receive treatment in the municipality of origin. This will provide a qualitatively better range for patients, for example: know that they can have family and close friends around them. Hospitals also provide health centres with new and more challenging jobs, making it more attractive for professionals to work in municipalities. This scheme shows that it improves the interaction between hospitals and municipalities and better cooperation between primary health services, permanent staff, specialists and hospitals benefits. This is also strongly emphasised in the 2015 national health plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1104	Interpellant takes on a topical theme: providing patients with severe suffering and a high level of care a qualitatively good supply before the municipal health service, regardless of where in the country a cage. This challenge has been severe for many municipalities and is still on the political agenda of the meeting between municipalities and municipalities, and between municipalities and counties. The focus in recent years has been very much on one person and care centres. Therefore, more and more municipalities are lacking both in the economy, competent personnel and, in some cases, space to deal with this heavy group of patients in a knowledgeable way. Interaction is an important keyword, which we have heard here today as well. Putting the patient in the center and getting different levels of services, institutions, municipal and state levels to work together will be decisive for good supply. Primary and specialist services must cooperate with a view to greater flexibility both in practice, professional and economic terms for the more and more patients who have special severe treatment needs. Equally important is having a funding that makes it possible to provide a flexible provision of care that goes high for people to have different wishes and needs. Interpellanten’s formulation that the municipalities ‘are becoming increasingly responsible for more patients with severe disorders and a high level of care needs’ covers the whole range of serious health conditions requiring different medical treatments, aids and close cooperation with relatives. This requires competence in the municipal services, which can be a challenge, especially in smaller municipalities. It also requires a care factor that provides the necessary comfort and framework in everyday life, both for patients and for relatives. Interpellant is receiving palliative treatment. The goal of all palliative treatment is to provide patients and their dependants with the best possible quality of life. Hospice is an offer in some municipalities, also as a daily offer for those who want to stay at home. The value base of the hospice philosophy is optimal treatment, care and care, individually adapting the individual patient to the physical, mental, social, spiritual or existential needs. The Christian People's Party bases a holistic view of humanity and thinks it's important to take care of the whole human being. Good thought-out provision creates trust and security for patients, for their dependants and for health professionals. Another offer is an ambulatory palliative team with flexible arrangements in which the municipal health service and specialist services cooperate on a holistic offer. The Christian People's Party believes that more permanent bodies must be associated with both hospitals and home health care. This will be necessary to address the challenges that the interpellant points to. In its contribution, the Council of State highlighted a strong commitment to the municipal health service in different areas, and identified important measures to achieve this objective. In addition, the government is currently working on finding better financial arrangements. This is waiting for the municipalities, and I want the government to be happy with this work. Getting monotonous and equivalent treatment regardless of where we live in the country is an important common policy objective. For the Christian People's Party, it's about a worthwhile life - with the patient in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1128	The left believes that we need to get more focus on holistic patient care, and one needs to focus more on prevention and rehabilitation. Interpellant called intermediate solutions. I think there is a ‘missing link’ in the treatment, perhaps not least when it applies to seriously ill old people. Here I believe that there is a need for a constructive review of the financial responsibility between the specialist level and the primary level. I expect that KS will be a partner here that the department should work with to find solutions in the intermediate area. The LEON principle, which has been discussed by many, with treatment at the lowest possible effective level, we are a few about it in theory, but in practice it does not work as well. Here, they have a great responsibility to prioritize those who really need specialized follow-up, set up against those who can cope with a simpler follow-up. And if the fixed ones get more time, take enough time, some of which are good, there's going to be a potential there to prevent the flow of patients towards the specialist level. It's the municipalities that are responsible for the fixed medical system, they're responsible for the hospitals, and we know that based on the arrangements in the fixed medical contract, they're going to work in public medicine for a certain period of time in a week - 7.5 hours per week. week is now. In practice, however, local authorities do not exploit this, so there is a potential here in some way. How to do that, I don't know, but at least we know that there's only 5.5 hours in public medical work being exploited by this agreement, so here's a potential. We need more corpses in hospitals, too. That means we can take better care of the sickest of the sick. Then we've heard about swing door spaces, and it's that very sick elderly people are all too often sent back and forth between hospitals and hospitals, the last weeks of life in particular. It's not a worthy care -- we can't say that. We need more nurses and more bodies with competence for complex diseases in hospitals. They need to learn to make decisions and see when the elderly are in the terminal phase and most of all need peace around them. Then there are no extensive operations at the altitude. We have to be able to give the elderly a decent end to life. We can't prevent old age, but we can prevent damage. The left has been occupied by prevention and rehabilitation, and as the interpellant is in, there are many grey zones. The left-hand side does not think input-driven funding is the solution to the grey-zone problem. The left has more faith in dialogue and responsibility for the different levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1141	I would like to start by clarifying a little misunderstanding. Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen has obviously not heard my post, but wrote his post before I was presented. I have not said that patients die on the way to and from hospitals. It was not in my post. On the other hand, the council heard quite correctly - she wondered if she heard correctly: I said, and I believe that very many municipalities do not have the ability to give patients/inhabitants the offer they need. It's the reality of the day, and you can't stand here on the Storting and make a rosy story about what it should be like and how you think it is. There are a lot of good examples, and in a lot of places things work well, but there are also a lot of places where the municipalities are struggling, and where they can't create good enough offers. What I took into account in this interview was much of what Inge Wohnung had to say, that very many of the services take place in the municipalities and very little in the hospitals, in the healthcare companies and in the specialist health services. More and more of the tasks that health businesses have previously been responsible for will take place in the municipalities in the future. It's positive. There is a broad consensus that it is positive that the citizens receive a good offer in their home municipality, but the competence must be in place. All that has to be in place, which everyone has agreed on, all the good things that have been brought forward in the debate, costs money. A palliative offer costs more, and there may be a need for a crew of two to one, and there are nearly three times as high crews as in an ordinary hospital ward. Of course, there should be such offers, both in the hospitals and at home, and also in the ambulance team. But we have to see that this will cost the municipalities something, and then you often shift from one offer to another - like in Halden, where ten intermediate places are created where you should have rehabilitation sites. One goes at the expense of the other, and you need both. All that I brought up, and everyone who has been involved in the debate has been involved, we agree that we need to. We also agree that there are many good offers, but what I had hoped might be looked at was not necessarily a new effort-driven funding, although it is in the very text of the interpellation, but another and more appropriate way of financing many of the services, services that are in the grey zone, and also many of the services that are particularly costly. We have a system for resource-intensive services in the municipalities. It doesn't catch this in the right way. I don't think that's a forward-looking way of financing such things either. I had hoped that the Council of State might come up with some of what Jan Bøhler has said, that one would look at the financing of rehabilitation. I also appreciate the fact that the Left mentioned intermediate departments and the need to look at funding there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1152	I think there have been several good examples of good local action in the debate - from Larvik and hospitals in Alta to many examples of outpatient activities, for example. The specialist health service that goes out and that works well, as many people have done, among other things. Mr Selsvold Nyborg. Then I have to say that I think the representative Wohnning had a very good post. Several speakers have been about the exact same thing that the representative raised. What is a little strange about the Progress Party - and the representative of Wohnning also pointed out - is that we have to have more local measures, but when the money is to be distributed, it is the specialist health service that gets the money, and so the representative Giltun, in his final statement, says that there is more money we need, also to the municipalities. I agree with the representative's remuneration that there is too little focus on primary health services in relation to specialist health services in the broad sense. I also fully agree with the representative who said that we need to be able to move the competence where the users are, and not the other way around, because there is something very unworthy about older people who are in the final phase of life being driven, which the representative was in, between hospitals and hospitals several times. Then it is very important that they get help where they are, and many are in the hospital and should get help there, so that they don't go into the hospital. There's no measure at all. I also mean, and I don't understand that there is any disagreement about it, that sick elderly people should have medical treatment based on an overall assessment of the individual's situation. Some of the debates that have been in public over the past few weeks seem to me to have the greatest impact on hospitals. No, that's not it. It's a goal to provide the best possible help where people need help, based on their situation. Then the representative takes up something very important, and that's how we're going to be able to do more for the more than 100,000 annual works that are currently being carried out by family and volunteers in the care service. How are we going to do both to preserve them and to get even more people to do the same in the future? We will need that next to the public effort that we have today, and we will have to have it in the future. Then it is very important that we find out more schemes that can contribute in the right direction. So finally, I'm a little surprised by the tone that the Progress Party has, with claims that older people shouldn't be the big theme of this government, and that we're just holding celebrations. It is now clear that after we took over, there has been a lot more money for the municipalities. It is not immaterial to get good deals in the municipalities. There have been new grants to which the Stortinget has joined in order to build more, and we have got more employees. All of this can't be negative for what we're talking about here. So I wonder a little bit about the rhetoric that the Progress Party has in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1165	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1176	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1186	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan to help deaf and deaf people, including the following measures: The financial responsibility for the provision of housing and care for deaf and deaf people with different disabilities is transferred to the public interest and rights-bound. A separate brochure, or information booklet, is prepared for parents and advisers on the rights involved. The deaf and deaf blind are given the right to one additional school year in primary school, and up to two additional years in secondary school. Persons who have had a development and who have not reached the necessary level of knowledge after completing secondary education are granted the right to adult training in cases where it is clear that they have a potential for development that can be exploited and given opportunities for a more independent life. Health supervision is required to ensure that the availability of sign language staff or interpreters is incorporated into the internal control of hospitals under the State Health Supervision Act. A system is established to provide relief services in sign language settings, especially in the case of holidays. [[Summer holidays and longer]] The interpreting service is being upgraded. Concrete solutions aimed at facilitating deaf blindness to remain at work/to be put to work.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1234	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-04.ana.ud1664e1245	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
