ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e26	Minister for Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has a history of disease. Minister of Industry and Trade, Dag Terje Andersen, will be present during the proceedings. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e35	Many have been waiting for - and attending - this big message. Norway’s need for more foreign labour has been apparent for a long time. Although very many immigrants have now come to Norway, the need is likely to continue. The large shortage of labour shows that we need to strengthen both the inclusion work and increase labour immigration. The Storing Communication provides a good and thorough review of the contexts to which the issue of labour migration needs to be assessed and seen in relation. It says little about integration, but should then be able to provide the basis for a more informed and sober debate on future labour migration. There is a broad majority behind the committee position of St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008, Labour immigration. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, together with the government parties, can support most of the proposals in the communication. It is only the Progress Party that is making a reservation and does not vote in favour of the Government's proposal. However, the party is together with both the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on some additional proposals. I will briefly explain some of the points in the message on which there is a broad consensus. It is very important that employers are now given greater responsibility for the recruitment of professionals and key personnel outside the EEA territory. However, we disagree with the degree of this. It is positive that we agree to support simplification measures involving a simpler and faster procedure, including a rapid transition to electronic processing systems in the foreign administration. Almost all the hearing bodies have pointed out the need for a simpler and faster procedure. It is then important that the authorities continue to focus on the regulatory mechanisms to prevent social dumping and pressure against the Norwegian labour market. It is positive that the conditions for working in Norway remain based on the agreements negotiated by the social partners. It is important to look at measures in the light of brain escape issues. Measures taken in Norway must not drain developing countries for valuable competences. It is also very positive that very many of the hearing bodies have addressed this issue. Then, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to highlight some of the areas in which one has not reached an agreement in the Committee. The first concerns the date of implementation of the proposals. Government parties do not want to put strong enough pressure on the implementation of the changes from 1 January 2009, as will the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. Instead, the red-green parties here support the Government's indications of 1 January 2010. The ability of businesses to define for themselves what skills are needed, and what should be the salary level, is the second point of disagreement I want to highlight. While the report and also the bulk of the population believe that in order to be defined as highly qualified specialist and key personnel, wages should be above a certain level. It is suggested that approximately NOK 600 000. The opposition parties do not support this, but believe that the companies themselves know best what skills are needed. Nor does the minority wish to bind the specialist concept to a salary level as high as NOK 600 000. This view was, moreover, highlighted by several organisations in the Committee consultation round. The third point is that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left propose to ask the Government to assess approval schemes and legislation concerning work as au pair. I have learned that the au pair system is located in a somewhat unclear frontier country, and that from several teams a number of concerns are raised in practice. The parties to the government did not want to go into the proposal that we have promoted, but did not come up with any other views or counter-representatives on the minority proposal. I could imagine that the Council of State - if he sees himself able to do so - gives his view of the au pair practice we have here in the country. The government must be commended for establishing a service centre for migrant workers here in Oslo. This has been very well received and is clearly requested. Similar service offices should be established several places in the country. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party are behind the proposal to establish a corresponding centre in Stavanger. According to Oslo, the Rogaland region has the largest number of immigrants in the country and should therefore, in our opinion, remain in line first. But the government parties do not support that proposal, and I could imagine asking the Council of State why. We believe that the transitional arrangements should be abolished. This concerns the Eastern European countries. It promotes proposals by the minority. However, lifting the transitional arrangements is obviously not prepared for the Government or government parties, and I ask the Council of State to justify why this cannot be done immediately. We can't see any reason to wait with that. It is only after nearly three years of government that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has presented this communication on labour immigration to Stortinget. For a long time, the business community has called for both simpler rules and faster procedures in order to have the necessary foreign labour. And in the right, we have on several occasions made proposals in the United Kingdom to meet society's need for more workers. But every time, the government parties have let go of the prestige in the matter and voted down sensible Right-wing proposals. But they're in this setting. In the big news, the government has copied the Right Policy in many areas. The main content is therefore identical to many of the proposals we have made in the past, so it was no surprise that there was a broad majority in the Committee. But in the Right's view, the government has spent too much time. It has been a long time since industry reported the urgent need for better action, simpler procedures and more flexible legislation. It is incomprehensible that the Government will implement what is stated in the notification only from 1 January 2010, when one has only had to wait so long - and then it will be even longer. It's urgent, but so far the position hasn't listened. It's still not too late. I could imagine challenging the Council of State to speed up this process. It can still be implemented from 1 January 2009. The right also believes that the Government should have gone further in its proposals and that it could have contributed more to making it easier for Norwegian businesses to access labour. The government is still too sceptical to give firms wide powers. And that's about proposals that I've been briefing on that we disagree on. In the right, we believe that employers know best what skills businesses need, and they should define what they need - define what a specialist is. We would again say that we believe that the government is setting too high a requirement for both competence and pay. We have to meet business and businesses by lowering that threshold. The right-hand proposal would have made it easier and more flexible for both employers and employees. In this setting, we have, among other things, proposed transitional arrangements, proposals for defining what an enterprise is, and proposals for the establishment of a long-term visa scheme for workers employed in enterprises located both in Norway and abroad. This visa must be valid for unlimited entry into and exit from Norway. This must, of course, be done within the framework of our Schengen obligations. But there is a flexibility that these types of businesses have called for, and that they sorely need. I have said this before: First, the government waited three years to deliver this message, so it will not come into force until January 2010. It's too bad, it takes too long. I hope that the Council of State now sitting in the Chamber can take up the challenge and speed up the whole process. Finally, I would like to address all the proposals that have been made by the Right, both alone and with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e89	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e92	Migration is perhaps the factor that changes the world the most today. People travel a lot more than before. By air traffic, each country is in practice one another's neighbouring country. A person born in country a, studying in country b, meets a girlfriend from country c, and together they settle in country d. Both the voluntary migration and the migration resulting from conflicts and unstable conditions are increasing. We can either choose to participate in this new world, or we can choose to close our eyes to the changes and stand outside. With this message, we pick the first one, and there are two things in particular that make this important. First, we need more people. When we ask business what limits their development potential, the factor that limits them most is the lack of labour. Furthermore, we also see that in a globalised world and in a globalised economy, we are also dependent on the competence of immigration at work to meet the challenges facing business. We have received many input into this process - from business, employee organisations, municipalities, etc., who want more flexible and flexible arrangements. We'll answer that with this setting. Starting work before a work permit is available will be easier. In the northern regions, a multi-travel visa is opened with a valid duration of up to five years. The procedural period shall be reduced to four weeks. Service offices are planned to facilitate the process both for the jobseeker and for the employer. The representative Holmberg is trying here to construct a conflict. On the contrary, the majority say in their remark that Rogaland is a natural region to establish such a service centre. But it is positive that the opposition is so happy that we have started the process of establishing a service office, that they are now jumping their feet off to suggest where it should be. The family members of students are given the opportunity to work full-time, and employees of international companies should be able to move more easily between countries. These are just a few examples of the policy that is now emerging. There has been quite a consensus in the Committee on the main objectives of this policy. In this way, I have great faith that this communication will be a good basis for meeting the challenges of the future international labour market. But Norway is not alone in this need. There's a lot of competition for the best minds. We have to do what we can to make sure that people actually choose Norway. Then exciting job opportunities are important. But sometimes you need more to convince. I am pleased that the Government in the message signals that they will investigate the possibility of introducing Norwegian training for workers. At the same time, we also send an important signal when we launch the idea of possibly introducing an individualised package of measures for accompanying families. If children and spouses also come to Norway, we have everything to gain from them being caught, so that they can participate in Norwegian society. Job opportunities and welfare services for the accompanying family will be important in marketing, and perhaps the small extra that will be available, in order to choose Norway over, for example, Norway. Canada. We also get reports from larger companies, perhaps especially in District Norway, saying that there is one thing about getting people in, but that they also lose people after a very short time at work, often because of lack of leisure. Here too, municipalities have a responsibility to facilitate long-term maintenance of workers. Migration, and through that labour migration, represent fantastic opportunities. But then society must also make some strategic investments. Many of those who come to Norway to work choose to stay in the country. They bring their family here and they want to build a future here. It also gives us a responsibility to ensure that the integration of the accompanying family is as good as possible. We cannot, as the Progress Party calls for in the vote, fully shift responsibility to the business community or to the individual. Business is becoming expensive and time consuming, which is a bad business policy, and at least a terriblely poor integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e107	St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008 on labour immigration should turn out to be quite a different matter when it reached the Stortinget, than many of us might have thought and - I would say - feared. In the run-up to the big-time news in the years since the government joined and until the big-time news was released, there was a lot of noise in the media about this government's labour immigration policy. Much of it can probably be attributed to the press's somewhat free use of statements made by various government councils, but it left a feeling that this was a very, very dramatic change in Norwegian labour immigration policy. I'll refer a little bit from the media in this period. In the VG on Wednesday, 20 September 2006, Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen clearly gave the impression that he wanted to open up massive labour immigration from Pakistan, in connection with his visit there. Last March, government councillor Erik Solheim came with some opinions in relation to bringing 130 000 health workers from developing countries in the future. I quote from the Holy See, where the councillor Erik Solheim says: ‘We will need more than 100,000 more people in health services in Norway in the next 10 years. I don't think anyone sees any prospect that we can fill it with people who are already in the country." It also says: «The government believes it will be necessary to import at least 130 000 health workers from developing countries in the years to come.» In February this year, Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was visiting Turkey. During his visit, there was a rather eye-catching look in the English-speaking Turkish newspaper Today’s Zaman, where it is possible to read the following: «In a joint press conference with Labor Minister Faruk Çelik in Ankara, Norwegian Labor and Social Inclusion Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen announced on Thursday that Norway is planning to make changes to its immigration laws to allow it to host 100,000 Turks to fill jobs there.» This was moderated in retrospect by State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, but it had created the impression that this was a rather dramatic conversion of Norwegian labour immigration policy. But then came the crash message. Fortunately, the government and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and his department had chosen to listen to all the technical advice that had come, not least from economists, that massive labour migration to Norway is probably not the solution to any of the challenges that Norway is facing. Among other things, the Centre for Socio-economic Research came with very clear messages, a number of economists did, LO and NHO also made clear recommendations – and it was fortunately not the dramatic proposals that came on the table. The reason for this is simply that we do not need massive labour immigration in Norway. Immigration can only cover short-term, temporary needs we may have too highly qualified key personnel in Norwegian enterprises. But it is not a long-term solution, if you experience - and we do so far - that the labour market is unbalanced. Then it's about fixing the labour market, to put it simply. The power wave, which has also been presented as a major challenge for the nation, cannot be met with increased labour migration. I'm sure we'll have to make some adjustments, for example. in relation to health workers in Norwegian municipalities, working conditions and secure pay, and not least to make people stand longer in these professions. Thus, it is not possible to solve such challenges through labour immigration. The reason for this is obvious, as all economists say, that if a person picks up immigrants from abroad to Norway, there are people who are also going to ask for goods and services in Norway, who are going to need sick homes on the day they get old, who are going to need kindergarten places for their children, need health care, etc. Thus, one cannot solve major labour market challenges through labour immigration. But what we need is a system that ensures that companies can get the key personnel they sorely need in a situation where we do not have the necessary skills in the rich monn in Norway. Then you need labour immigration as a supplement to bring here the highly skilled labour force. But then Norway, with some challenges and some -- I was about to say -- has a bad advantage. This is due to the Norwegian labour market and how Norwegian labour force is priced. We are not particularly competitive in relation to highly skilled labour, but we are in relation to unskilled labour. Through the EU and the EEA, Norway has access to a labour market hundreds of times larger than Norwegian. There are half a billion people living within this system. It is clear that the vast majority of Norwegian business life needs for labour from abroad can be covered by labour from this area. Labour immigration from third countries is a limited but necessary matter for which provision must also be made. But then the Progress Party asks some critical questions, for some of the proposals made by the Government, which are to the extent supported by all the opposition parties minus the Progress Party, bears the mark of being a pure subsidisation of Norwegian companies. If it is such that the state is to promote and that the State is to facilitate costly integration measures in the field of labour immigration, it is in reality a subsidy to the labour force we are talking about. It is an expense that should, in my opinion, be for the individual company. If you choose to pick up labour from abroad, you should also take the costs that come with it, including the costs that will be borne by taxpayers. For this reason, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal that we should examine a labour immigration system in which the costs of labour immigration to each enterprise are directly returned - simply let the market mechanism function. It is clear that if an employer is willing to pay a little extra for the labour force, both through wages and also in relation to social costs, and from abroad, they will be able to afford to pick up that labour force. Then the market will decide that, and there won't be a case the state needs to interfere too much. I believe the case's rapporteur, the representative Holmberg from the Right, was injured to say something wrong when she claimed that the Progress Party did not agree that in order to be defined as highly qualified specialists and key personnel, the salary would have to be estimated at NOK 600,000. It's wrong; the Progress Party thinks it can be a sensible system. What we are not trailers of, on the other hand, is that you have to have a similar system in relation to the so-called professional. The Progress Party also supports the opening up of the Government in relation to Russia. I will bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e148	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e151	I do not know what the representative Amundsen is doing in ‘massive labour migration’, but it is still a fact that in recent years almost 25 pst. of the increased labour demand in Norway has been met by the fact that people have come to Norway through labour immigration and by other means. Whether it's massive or not, I don't know, but it's at least a fact. With regard to the functioning of the market mechanism within the EU and the EEA, it is probably the market mechanism that works, so I don't know what he's asking for. There is reason to take seriously the challenges we face in terms of future labour needs. In the past, we have met the labour demand by bringing low-participation groups into the labour market. At the end of the 1960s, there was an increase in female participation that met the increased need. Today we do not have this reserve of labour. General unemployment is low. Nevertheless, there is reason to recall that there is still a high level of unemployment among the minority population. Unemployment varies from one country to another. 10 pst. to 15-20 pst. in the different groups. In the same way as 40 years ago, it is an important labour market measure to mobilise own resources - getting more of the immigrant population into work is important both for individuals and for society. Work will strengthen integration, and for individuals it will generate income that strengthens self-esteem. 90 pst. by migrant workers come from neighbouring areas, i.e. the EEA territory. Only one in ten come from third countries, i.e. countries outside the EEA territory. This is an important background step, because some are trying to produce it as if it were flowing from labour from third countries and from developing countries. The message problematizes and discusses in a good way the relationship around work immigration. Increased labour migration could change the established balance between employees and employers. This balance has been one of the pillars of the welfare society. If labour supply increases, the position of workers in the labour market could be undermined. A strong trade union movement is an important guarantee for the welfare society. We can get an increased pressure on both national tariff agreements and social dumping. It is therefore absolutely necessary in all the fundamental issues of labour immigration that there is close cooperation between the authorities and the trade union movement. Any attempt to undermine Norwegian pay and working conditions must be severely reduced. It's not just one industry tariff agreement. The ultimate consequence is the future welfare model. A prerequisite for ensuring the digestion of a high level of common consumption is that those who are to contribute are aware of the fact that it is done in a manner that ensures fairness and non-discrimination. It is particularly important after the EU Court of Justice gave its final judgment before Christmas, known as Vaxholm. It may make it more difficult to generalise tariff agreements and be a pressure towards the introduction of minimum wage rates. The judgment states that no work struggle can be used to ensure that foreign labour in Sweden is paid in accordance with Swedish agreements. Where collective agreements are concluded in the home Member State, the employer may require that they be the ones to apply. The Posting of Workers Directive, on the other hand, stresses that foreign labour in a country cannot be paid under existing agreements in that country. In isolation, this means that the judgment is a clear weakening of the workers’ ability to fight. There is therefore a reason why the authorities and the trade union movement are on guard against developments that may undermine important parts of the basic laws of the labour market. A minority here in the Chamber, the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, make the relatively small pay gap here in the country a problem. They argue that the compressed pay structure - whatever it may be - is a problem, and believe that the government must take this problem seriously if we are to further develop the welfare community to become a knowledge nation. In other words, create greater pay differences and inequalities between people, and we become a knowledge nation. So that's the opposition's answer to the challenges we have. This I have to distance from. The notification underlines that labour immigration from third countries is to be a labour force with at least professional training. The need for labour is largely covered. This raises a number of fundamental problems that need to be addressed. Is it right for us in the rich world to import fully educated labour from poor developing countries? These are the skills they themselves need to develop and create the basis for future economic growth. That is why it is so important to pick up labour from poor countries that compensatory arrangements are established that we are thus helping to train new workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e172	The whole starting point for this debate is that Norway needs labour. There is not one solution, but labour immigration is one of the factors that will contribute to a solution. In recent years, there has been an explosive growth in labour immigration to Norway. We have been waiting a long time for a big message on labour immigration. What is coming is positive given that the Government is alerting measures to attract important labour. It's gonna be late, but it's gonna be okay. Of course, it could be even better if the government accepted all the good suggestions that have come from the opposition in recent years. The government has been watching the message for a long time. It is therefore essential that the measures be implemented quickly. The Government should ensure that the proposals presented in the Communication are put into effect from 1 January 2009 and that individual attempts are made at an even earlier stage, because there is a need for simpler legislation. There has to be less bureaucracy and a faster procedure. EEA/EFTA gives us as well-known access to a labour market that is one hundred times larger than our own. 62 pst. by migrant workers come from new EU countries. If we are to be attractive to workers from these countries, we need to ensure that we have a system that quickly and effectively takes care of their applications and their interests. It is by no means obvious that competent workers are applying to Norway. We're not attractive in terms of pay. One might like it or not-- pay is one of the factors that matter when people choose to live in a country. We have to take some grips that make us attractive. There is a need to go more strongly to work to attract the good heads. We want foreign students taking higher education in Norway to automatically receive a right to a five-year work permit after completing their education. It will provide a win-win situation - more labour for Norway and more competence for the student’s home country when he has to return. Such an arrangement will also provide incentives for students to complete. Norway has a specialist quota for recruiting skills from non-EU countries. This allowance is of 5000 persons. It is a crossroads of thought that Norway has been able to fill this quota in the near future. I asked if the requirements for this permit are too rigid and square. I believe that the companies need to have a word in the team to decide which skills are needed to be defined as a specialist or specialist. We must not impose excessive pay demands on those who are specialists. It is important that we learn from the experience of labour immigration in the 1970s, and that we offer a much more targeted integration of migrant workers and their families. Integration policy must take account of the fact that more people remain in the country permanently. All the parties agree in the vote, with the exception of the Advance Party. I believe that the government must ensure that workers and their families receive good Norwegian training. It is important for all parties that workers learn the language and thus be able to learn more about their rights and duties as workers and as residents of the country. It's not work immigrants coming to the country - it's people. Good Norwegian knowledge also contributes to quality and safety at work. Rogaland is the region of Oslo that has the most labour migrants. The Christian People’s Party, together with the Right, Left and the Advance Party, therefore proposes the creation of a service centre for foreign workers in Stavanger. The government parties say that they will consider whether to create it. It is no longer necessary to assess it. In Rogaland, it takes up to five months to process an application for a work permit. In Oslo it takes five days. The long waiting periods in Rogaland are due to the delegation of power to the police, while the Foreign Affairs Section does not have the resources to deal with such an increase in activity. It simply accumulates. At the same time, the need for skilled labour increases. A service centre in Stavanger after the Tøen model has to come, and it has to come now! It was said by the representative Stokkan-Grande that the opposition is constructing a conflict. No, we agree that there must be a service centre in Stavanger. There's no conflict. But the opposition points out that one must not hesitate any longer - now has a limp enough! Therefore, I am surprised if the government parties are voting against the proposal for a service centre in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e195	Congratulations on the day! Today is 200 years since Wergeland was born. I guess that's the person in Norwegian history who's most famous for his fight against xenophobia. After all, he changed his vision as he traveled to Paris, became a little wiser and understood that his previous view of immigration policy had been unwise. He worked to change the Constitution § 2 - all honor to him! In addition to wanting to remove the Jewish paragraph, he published a magazine entitled «For the Working Class» — a magazine aimed at providing practical and moral information for urban and suburban workers. Today we are discussing labour immigration - a combination of both issues, you ask me. I want to problemate a little about the challenges we face in terms of labour immigration. One thing I want to do is problematize, and that confronts us with many dilemmas, is we in the north import labour from them in the south. We who initially have good advice, good economics and have the ability to educate people and invest money in it, add up to a policy where we are to import labour from the south. Therefore, I am pleased that this is described in a thorough manner both in the notification and in the setting, and that an overall committee wants to put in place international guidelines with a legislation on migration, especially in the case of health workers. It's important that we're not just ourselves closest to this discussion. Another dilemma that I think it is important to discuss is the mobilisation of domestic labour. One thing is that if we look at the unemployment rates in Norway, they're pretty low. If we look at the participation of some groups in the job market, it's also scaryly low. I am afraid - with a one-sided focus on labour immigration - that this could be a kind of resting-room when it comes to mobilising domestic labour. Especially within some of the immigrant groups coming to Norway, especially quota refugee groups, we see that participation in the labour market is too low. At the same time, we also need to focus on it. This is also mentioned in both the message and the settings. We have to follow it very closely. It's fast done that we say it in a message, and it's quick done that we say it in a setting, but when it comes to practical reality, it can be kind of a rest cushion. The third thing I want to do is to raise wages. There is no doubt that one can conflict when importing so much unskilled labour in relation to the labour already in Norway and that it can create a wage pressure. When you hear the debate here today, you can be even more frightened. Both the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party almost make it a problem that we have such a similar wage formation in Norway. One of the things I'm most afraid of, including when it comes to work immigration, is that those who are in practical occupations, who do a practical job, get hung behind, while those who know the language and can write Norwegian, initially shoot from. We're going to follow that very closely, so we don't get a more two-part labour market, because it's only of the bad, as I see it. I wanted to start my post by problemating a little, because in the Central Party we believe that we need more labour immigration to Norway. We see that it is important to manage all the tasks that we believe are important, both in the public sector and in business, in order to achieve good working conditions. But we can't just think about how we can solve our own problems without seeing what challenges it creates for others, and without possibly mobilising domestic labour. But we're on the whole road, and we're happy with the path we're on to facilitate more labour immigration. I'll end up with Wergeland. As I said, he published a magazine that was for information to workers in suburbs and cities. One of the most important jobs we do now when we have increased labour migration is to ensure that workers are integrated into Norwegian society. With regard to the labour force wave that we had in the 1970s, which is also mentioned in the attitude, we see that after a certain period of time, very many people came across social security benefits and fell out of the labour market. I think that one of the most important things we can do to keep people working for a long time is to make sure they get good language skills, good knowledge and good integration and inclusion. This also applies to those who initially think they're just going to stay here for a short period of time. So, congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e217	I want to start by commending the Government for St.meld. No 18 and the direction of the measures adopted today. During the debate on the Foreign Affairs Act earlier in the year, we took up many of our proposals and asked the Government to take them seriously. Today, we can sign out many of them, but not all, and it is still possible to do more to obtain foreign labour. It shows, among other things: the suggestions which the Left makes with the Right Party and the Christian Party. It is also possible to introduce some of the measures faster than 1 January 2010, which are suggested. The left considers that labour immigration is a good thing for Norwegian business and that this must not have a negative impact on the Norwegian labour market. We are positive that the conditions for working in Norway should continue to be based on the agreements negotiated by the social partners. The Labour Migration Institute is the area where we should be able to choose, but it means that we have enough to choose from. Today, Norway is not among the most attractive countries for those seeking happiness in another country through work. It is far less than the maximum ceiling of 5,000 from outside the EU. Until October 2006, only 1,542 specialists have been recruited. The left considers it particularly important to focus on the recruitment of labour with a higher level of competence. There has been a long shortage of labour in many parts of Norwegian working life, and we believe it is important that the Government profile Norway and Norwegian jobs. We therefore want a more active policy to attract highly skilled labour and students at the doctoral level. It is necessary to develop a separate national strategy for this. It is also important to develop systematic knowledge of the status of Norway in the international labour market. Today, despite Norway’s annual status as one of the world’s best countries to live in, Norway often loses its competitive edge in relation to countries such as Canada and the United Kingdom. This must include, inter alia: Outreach activities outside the borders of the country are conducted to a greater extent than they are today, with information on the possibility of work and study in Norway. Research institutions need to be strengthened to attract more foreign researchers. I refer in this way to the proposal we have with the Right and Christian People's Party on a national strategy. We also believe that foreign students who have completed higher education in Norway should be entitled to a work permit for up to five years. Such a scheme will be positive both for Norway and for the student, which will have the opportunity to increase their skills and work experience. The scheme will also serve as an incentive to complete the studies. The vast majority of migrant workers in Norway come from neighbouring areas, especially from the other Nordic countries, Poland and the Baltic countries. About nine out of ten permits for migrant workers are currently granted to persons from the EEA/EFTA area, while every ten jobs permit is granted to nationals of third countries, i.e. non-EEA/EFTA countries. By far the majority are men. In my own part of the country, North Norway and Finnmark, we see an increasing shortage of labour in the public sector, in the private sector and especially in the fishing industry. Me and the Left are therefore well pleased that the Government is now opening up temporary permits for Russians from the Barents region to work in the three northernmost states. The Barents region is in many ways our neighbourhood, both culturally and nutritionally. Increased mobility and interaction in the North Calote is a strength for all, and can also help to solve some of the challenges we face in the region, both in terms of labour and in terms of gender and age. But it's important to make it clear that it's not brain drain we're going to open up to. Integration and language training are also important for migrant workers and not least for their families who have to accompany them. The pressure on housing in many municipalities creates additional challenges with the settlement of both migrant workers, refugees and asylum seekers, and therefore also for integration work. In general, municipalities need to improve the development of a more diverse and adapted housing service. They also have to make better use of the initial loan. Here the State at the House Bank has a challenge. The left considers that there is a need for a review of the terms and conditions of the start-up loan. In such a review, it should, inter alia: assess whether start-up loans can be granted in support of the deposit. Many tenants, e.g. Immigrants are able to pay monthly rents but often lack capital to redeem a larger deposit. We must also help to trigger creativity and diversity by enabling immigrants to become employers and entrepreneurs. The founding centre in Drammen is an example of this being possible, and we want to stimulate further to such catalysts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e240	In the last three years, Norway has seen a very strong growth in labour migration. The number of permits for work shows continued growth. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that labour immigration is positive for the Norwegian economy. I interpret both the position and the statements made by the rapporteur, so that the Government is very much in agreement with the guidelines for a future labour immigration policy. As the Committee itself points out, we are building on and further developing labour immigration policy from the last two governments. The minority suggests measures that we are not prepared to take a decision today, but that the Government will consider in the further work. I would like to take this opportunity to draw up some important points. One of the strongest driving forces behind labour migration is the ability of individuals to improve their own and the standard of living of their families. Labour migration also gives employers the opportunity to search for skilled labour across national borders. At the same time, the Government's view is that labour migration has a value in itself, in addition to the purely economic aspect. Labour immigration contributes to the diversity of society. Although labour migration is initially a good thing, it comes with challenges. The adoption of the Norwegian working life model and the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society are central here. We must avoid that labour immigration leads to a two-way division of working life with significantly worse conditions and standards than is the case in the rest of the world of work. It is also important to avoid the emergence of the black economy. Work to ensure equal pay and working conditions and to combat social dumping is important, both for migrant workers and for serious businesses in Norway. The main objective of the labour immigration policy is to facilitate the recruitment of foreign labour by enterprises and businesses in a simple and efficient way where necessary. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway participates in a large, open European labour market with a common framework. Recruitment within this area may be affected, inter alia: through information and recruitment campaigns. The government wants to continue the main principle of current legislation for citizens from non-EEA countries. Immigration from third countries shall provide flexible access to labour for businesses, while maintaining social control of the facility and its number. We are pleased that the entire committee is in agreement with this. However, it is necessary to revise the legislation. It must be designed to allow employers to recruit in a simpler and more efficient way. In the communication, we set a target of a maximum procedural period of four weeks. In addition, we want to develop schemes that give employers greater responsibilities, including: to assess the competence of employees. The size has recently adopted a new foreign law. In the near future, the Government will come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for Chapter 13 of the Act, which includes the rights of EEA citizens, in line with the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 23 May to include Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. In connection with the new Foreign Affairs Act, new regulations are to be drawn up. The Government will take the Committee's position and views from today's debate into account in that work. The aim is to have a new foreign law with regulations in place from 1 January 2010. The Committee points out that it is desirable to implement some of the proposals in the Communication before 1 January 2010. There's a point of view that the government shares, and we'll work for this. Then maybe I can start by answering some of the questions that, among other things, The rapporteur mentioned in his statement, because I understand that there are no repetitions after this article. I'll start with the au pair proposal from the minority. With regard to the au pair system, we are part of international, here European, conventions, and it is then necessary to try to safeguard the intention of the au pair system in order to give young people the opportunity to gain experience from other countries, for example. from Norway. Of course, the Government's ambitions are, as they are for the proposers, not that it should not be able to act as cheap alternative labour in other areas of activity. Of course, we're prepared to follow it up, but in line with the conventions we've committed ourselves to follow. If that's the case, I'll immediately sign a 3-minute post to answer further questions that have been asked so far in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e278	The President can confirm that this is the case. It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e281	Providing adequate and skilled labour will be one of the main challenges for Norway in the future. Already today, we notice that we have a lack of skilled workers. We don't have to look beyond the expansion of kindergartens. The appropriations have been large - here as elsewhere in the municipal sector in recent years - but the lack of people to build kindergartens has been a major challenge. We also know that the costs of large transport projects in a short time have increased by up to 30 p.m., among others. because of the fierce competition to get people to carry out the projects. This shortage leads to strong pressures in the economy, higher prices, and that all projects, both public and private, need longer time to be realised. Some industries clearly note the lack of expertise, the seas if we in Norway train many skilled professionals at a high level, because the need is great, and it is growing. For example, in the oil and gas industry and in the offshore industry, we know that there is a need for people with acute skills in order to be competitive - yes, just to get the jobs done and to further develop the business. The public sector is also facing major challenges in this way. For example, the Hospital Inland now lacks 20 medical specialists. I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus in the Committee on an offensive policy on labour immigration to Norway. Sickness if our main focus for the labour market will continue to be to mobilise domestic labour force, we clearly know that there is a need to have labour immigration as an important complement. As many have experienced, there has been an almost explosive growth in labour migration to Norway in recent years. Now that we have a more flexible system in place, Norway may become an even more attractive labour market. Then it is very important that we are able to maintain the good pay and working conditions we have in Norwegian working life. There is something we in the Workers' Party and the Government are also very concerned about. This was also underlined by the Council of State in his articles. Fortunately, we have a government that pursues offensive policies against social dumping. This message showed up in the current one. That's what's needed, because we've seen a lot of examples of foreign workers who've been working in this country under very bad conditions. A prerequisite for a more flexible policy in the field of labour immigration is that we also have clear rules on employment services. Important steps to ensure this will be taken within a short period of time, when both a system of approval for the provision of labour and new provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act are put in place. If the Committee disagrees on a number of points, it is good that almost an aggregate increase is now behind the various measures that will be adopted and which ensure that both our industry and welfare offer receive the labour needed, both today and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e298	The Progress Party believes, on a principle basis, that there should ideally be the freest possible movement across borders of goods, services, capital and labour. As a welfare country, labour imports can be profitable for some enterprises, but can be a loss project for taxpayers. This may, for example: if the migrant loses his or her job and ends up living on Norwegian social schemes for the rest of his or her life. I think we should look into whether there are any solutions that could make it more consistent between what pays for the individual enterprise and what pays for the taxpayers in Norway. The government's proposals for income criterion remove some of the worst symptoms of today's system. But the Progress Party wants, in principle, a system that meets the challenge at its root. Other criteria can be used to ensure that occupational migration that is economically profitable will always be socio-economically viable within the framework of the welfare state, if the employer is required to cover any future use of welfare schemes relating to the migrant worker and his family. Most enterprises will then have difficulties in guaranteeing any potential future use of public welfare schemes linked to workers from third countries. However, I assume that some insurance companies will be able to set up, so that each employer can insure himself against such a risk as we point out. An important prerequisite for the scheme is to cut off the possibility of permanent residence in Norway for third country workers. I would like to point out that, unlike Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark, Norway has never previously had guest workers' schemes. On the contrary, the first guest workers came to the country on a tourist visa, which included: is documented in the newspaper article entitled ‘No one can help the Pakistani in Oslo’ from 1971. The Pakistani people mentioned in this article were allowed to stay, after receiving help from both the Red Cross and other charities. Increased labour needs are mainly to be covered by domestic labour, and labour immigration is only to be a supplement. Among other things, reducing sick leave and involuntary part-time work will free up large labour reserves. It is not a public task to finance any integration schemes with migrant workers. The companies and the large oil companies importing labour have a separate responsibility towards the ones they pick up from the country. UDI has its own service centre for foreign workers on Tøen in Oslo, where the police, UDI, Labour Inspectorate and the tax department are represented. This center has become a great success. Rogaland County Municipality and Stavanger Region Industrial Development have requested the establishment of a similar centre in Stavanger. They indicate that Rogaland is the region of Oslo that has the most labour migrants, which may be due to the oil industry, and wants a service centre based on the Tøen model to be established in Rogaland. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that the Government is not willing to establish such a service centre for the benefit of the companies located in this region, and those applying for labour immigration. What the government says in the message is that they only have to assess this - and it doesn't hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e317	In Oslo, it is hardly possible to meet people other than Swedish waiters for the time being. Without immigrants from third countries, Norwegian hotel industries were unable to cope, and both the cleaning industry and the care of the elderly would have major difficulties in obtaining labour. Without construction workers from Lithuania and Poland, many Norwegian construction projects would stop. The bear and vegetable growers in Westfold need the help of Polish and Baltic seasonal workers in order to harvest their products. In short, Norwegian business already depends on significant labour migration. The availability of labour is now a limiting factor in the Norwegian economy and a direct reason for us, for example: cannot increase the speed of road and rail development. We simply don't have enough people or equipment to build a lot more than we do today, if we don't increase immigration further. There is only one party that does not understand this context, but the understanding of political contexts has never been the strength of this party. However, welcoming foreign workers to Norway, we do not accept that greedy employers should create a bottom line of non-resident workers without rights and with lice pay, as is the case in many other countries where immigrants make up the subclass of society. Those who come here shall have Norwegian salary, they shall have Norwegian working conditions, and they shall comply with Norwegian law. Media has recently shown an interest in a certain master builder from Tønsberg who has far from met the requirements we must impose on a Norwegian employer in terms of housing and pay and working conditions. It is good that both the media and the authorities are cutting down on such cases. Employers who offer conditions of minority or who close their eyes to the subcontractor do so do wrong against their own employees. But it's worse than that: they're undermining our professional rights, and they're undermining Norwegian jobs. When the Business Committee was recently travelling in Finnmark, Nikel and Murmansk, we were told about a labour market marked by low mobility and high demand for skilled labour. I am pleased that the Government is now taking initiatives for more new schemes that actually open the frontier in Storskog, which means: the possibility for Russians in the Barents region to obtain a temporary work permit allowing us to take up work in our three northernmost counties, without special requirements for competence, to allow part-time work for border commuters from Russia, to set up a joint information and processing office in the Churches to facilitate, in general, simpler border crossings and change of visa and entry control practices and to initiate a bilateral agreement with Russia on border residence certificates, which will in itself facilitate border crossing for people living in the region; This is an important part of Norwegian north-eastern policy and should be a source of increased economic activity in an area of the country that has long been characterised by relocation and unemployment. Pessimism has turned to optimism, also on the Kola Peninsula, although the population there can still look far after the prosperity development we have had on the Norwegian side of the border. But there are also a number of Russians who have sought a better life in Norway. Simplification of border crossings makes it possible to live in Russia and work in Norway, which can also contribute to the development of wealth on the Russian side of the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e348	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e351	I asked for the floor to get the opportunity to make some further comments, perhaps in particular, on the question of the transitional arrangements, which the case-rapporteur, Holmberg, raised. As stated in the Government’s proposals and the majority vote, the transitional rules are to be discussed with the parties, in particular for the first eight of the ten new Member States. The possibility of transitional arrangements expires in May next year, so we're talking about either May next year or something earlier. In the last two countries, Romania and Bulgaria, there are opportunities to have transitional arrangements a little longer, but we nevertheless think that there is a proper approach to such a matter that we are discussing the transitional arrangements with the social partners. These social partners have been central to having transitional rules as one of many contributions to the fight against social dumping, which minority parties also say elsewhere in their attitude to, inter alia, social dumping. in order to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, which, to the extent that the Government is so, has already done so. In this context, I was more surprised when I read elsewhere in the position that the minority parties are actually concerned about the compressed pay structure in Norway, based on the possibilities of recruiting skilled labour from other countries. Those are pure words for the money -- these parties believe that the pay differences should be greater. Is there something that really is a competitive advantage for Norway, yes, that we have well-qualified people at all levels of a company's production, but it's also that because of our education system and our equality idea and equidistant thinking, we don't have so many pay differences compared to the highest-paid jobs. In fact, it is a resource for Norway to recruit skills in Norway. So, for service centers. There I could be tempted to simply say it so that we are so happy that the opposition is also satisfied with the measures the Government has put in, that there is impatience from the opposition to get more red-green policy. For our part, it seems right to assess the cost of the action in relation to other measures that we will have available in the State budget. That is why I am very pleased with the majority's wording that a person should consider establishing a service centre elsewhere, and Rogaland is mentioned in particular. So I just want to say that the matter we are dealing with here is an essential part of Norwegian industrial policy. I know that the Minister of Industry is very pleased with the measures that are now being put in place in the area of highly skilled labour, which we need more exchange of both from Norwegian companies and from foreign companies and in. The examples mentioned by the representative of Gullvåg from Russia have contributed to a more dynamic labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e364	I am tempted to say to the Council of State that is talking about the great commitment to the red-green policy on labour immigration, that I think he has forgotten the story. If we think back to the previous ageing period, I remember very well all the debates we had on the Working Environment Act and labour immigration. It was not the large connection to the Right when we underlined the need for labour immigration at the time. I'd rather say welcome after. It is good that we are so united now that it is important for immigration into the labour market, and that it is important to facilitate the conditions for those who come to the country. Then I go over to the Progress Party, which is talking about subsidising labour. Well, we agree with the Advance Party that in terms of language training, we have transferred that responsibility to the companies. I see that in some small communities it can be difficult to get it done, so I think we're all going to be so practical and say that here the public, the workers and the people who come try to make a community. I am sure that if you add together the good forces, you get a language training that will work for the immigrants as well. What I am concerned about is that we must have integration measures also for those who come here on labour immigration. Of course, they come to Norway with a different starting point than asylum seekers and refugees. They come here with a completely different background and completely different experiences. Immigrants come as a resource group. But yet, even if they come to our country as a resource group and are going to work, they may have children going to school, children going to kindergarten, a spouse or companion who needs to get things organized, and I think it's a duty for us as a decent society to facilitate the conditions for those who come to our country. More is required in the case of refugees and asylum seekers, but we also need to meet the needs of other new arrivals. The most important thing is the measures that can be taken at local level - in neighbourhoods, in schools, in the environment, i.e. throughout the social community. So, finally, Social violence Vedum mentioned a part of not taking labour from poor countries. It is good that he drew it up in the debate. I just want to say that a couple-three years ago I was in Ethiopia at a hospital that was quite newly built and nice, where there were two things that hit me. One was that they had got machines from Sweden that didn't work because they didn't have anyone who was able to repair the machines. The second was that they didn't have a doctor again either, because the doctors had traveled to Western Europe. It is a point of order that this debate is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e380	The representative Steinar Gullvåg of the Workers' Party had just a post in which he stated quite clearly that Norway is dependent on labour immigration. He was in the hotel and restaurant business. He referred to care for the elderly. He even showed us how to build roads. And then he says with a clear address to the Progress Party that it is apparently a party that has not understood this issue. That is very interesting, because then he reveals that it is the representative of Gullvåg who has not understood the problem. Although it is considered that there is a lack of road construction capacity in Norway, it is completely possible to build roads without permanent labour force immigration. It is quite possible to engage foreign enterprises to do so. It even has the effect that purchases of services from abroad do not interfere with fiscal policy. It's completely possible to relate to it. If there had not been Swedes working in hotels and restaurants in Norway, it is of course not that no one would offer hotel and restaurant services, because there is something called the market - labour market in this context. There are providers, and there are people who are asking for an offer. A price is set where supply and demand meet - quite basic social economy. Wages and salaries will, of course, be affected by the relationship between supply and demand, and you will necessarily have to pay a little more for this labour force. But the labour force will exist. It will always exist. So saying that you are dependent on labour immigration is going to be very wrong. It is fully possible to buy services from abroad, and it is fully possible to allow the price mechanism to function in such a way as to provide the necessary labour. Not least, it is a professional group that should really be interested in us letting the price mechanism work. It is those who work in the care of the elderly - nurses and caregivers, who many believe have low wages today. It is clear that if the price mechanism is to function, that type of labour will be priced higher because of the high demand for it. There will then be no need for massive labour immigration in the health and care sectors at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e390	I can't help myself when we get this type of dosage about how unnecessary it is with labour immigration to Norway. I want to attach some comments to it. We already have a shortage of labour in some important sectors. It's a big problem, and it surprises me that the Progress Party doesn't seem to take it seriously. When asked what they demand from business, what is the biggest problem for growth and development in the future, they answer: availability of sufficient skilled labour. It would have been okay if you could have taken it over also in the Progress Party. It is true that if you look at the demographics, as the Committee has done in the setting, and look at how the composition of different age groups will develop in Norway in the future, there is no doubt that the demand for and the need for healthcare will rise dramatically in the future. We should begin to prepare for that already today. The alternative may be that we need to allocate a greater proportion of the labour reserve into health and care services, according to the reasoning of the Progress Party. But then there will be fewer to continue a productive and efficient business life, which is once again the basis of an efficient and well-being country. I would simply like to challenge the Progress Party on their whole approach and thinking on the need for labour, because this is simply not a matter of intervention. Finally, the Progress Party says that it is a good thing to push the price of labour high to allocate more people into the care professions, mostly public employees. At least it is not a good idea to reduce taxes, because it is mainly tax-financed services. It also badly harmonizes with what uses to be the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e401	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e404	I would like to encourage the representative Ola Borten Moe from the Central Party to actually read the committee's settings and read the big message. Then he will see that the Progress Party does not totally reject labour immigration. However, unlike Mr Gullvåg and others who have not followed the whole debate, we say that immigration can only serve as a complement to a well-functioning labour market within Norway. This means that, in the long term, it is necessary to accept the allocation of more Norwegian labour within care and care. It's a natural consequence of age development. But it doesn't have to represent a problem in itself. There are many ways to meet it, including: that it is not necessarily the government that has to provide these services to a large extent. Perhaps private solutions can address this issue. That's a slightly one-dimensional way of thinking about it. Labour immigration will only scale up the economy on a massive scale. [[The President cut off]] So it won't solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e409	I almost think I have to ask that the members of the Financial Committee pay particular attention to the rather peculiar lecture in the social economy that the representative Amundsen has contributed to this speech. The fact that the Progress Party actually closes its eyes to the dependence of Norwegian labour on foreign labour is, in my opinion, quite alarming, and shows how little contact representatives of this party have with Norwegian working life and with Norwegian business in general. That's no surprise to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e414	The representative Amundsen said two things in his post that deserve a comment. Firstly, the Progress Party acknowledges the long-term need for labour immigration. It is now at least a modification of the post I heard the representative hold earlier, where he said this was completely unnecessary. He also admits that there will be a need for a greater allocation of labour into certain professions. Then I think it would be right for us from the Progress Party to get an answer to what industries it is that should bear the welfare state in the future - what industries are we going to develop, and what industries are we going to build down? We know that the Progress Party has nothing to do with agriculture, but it is, after all, no more than 50,000 farmers, so it is not enough to retrain them to meet our welfare tasks in the future. So it would have been okay if the Progress Party could have been honest on which industries you want to build down. Then I also want to challenge the representative on what he said about this not having to come within the public sector. It doesn't matter. It does not matter whether this is a public or private matter. It's anyway a bill that has to be paid, and it's going to be labour here that we can't use for anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e425	It is interesting that the debate has taken a little off and has removed representatives who come into the matter in the middle of the debate. It does not seem that they have read the configuration from the committee. It was claimed that the Progress Party does not have contact with the working life. I will reject that and point out is completely wrong. If there is someone in contact with the labour market, it is at least the Progress Party, by having representatives who have been out in private work and have worked very well there. The business community in the Stavanger region is calling for a service centre in Rogaland, something government parties cannot promise them. That's what they're asking. They want to get a easier everyday life when it comes to immigration into the country. They want to make everyday life easier and shorten the procedure. So I would encourage the government parties to say yes to a service center in Rogaland and not just say that they want to assess it, because that's not enough for the work force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e434	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3786]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e449	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e458	We are now discussing the draft representative from the representatives of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, Laila Davøy, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Hans Olav Syversen. They propose that ideal health and care services, including child protection services, should be exempted from the public procurement requirement. There is already an exception in the health and care services regulations, which are known as unpriority services. But it is the buyers themselves who are going to decide whether they want to offer or not, and I understand that there are different practices around: Health South-East uses offer, while Health West does not. It is important to be aware that the EEA Agreement nevertheless requires public compliance with certain basic EEA law principles when purchasing these services, although some health and care services are not covered by the Procurement Directive’s detailed procedural rules on bidding. The principle of openness must be followed, which means that a person must ensure adequate public awareness of the contract to be concluded. Other suppliers shall be guaranteed access to the necessary information and shall have access to the notification of their interest prior to the award of the contract. Similarly, all current and potential suppliers must be treated equally. There are many points of view in this matter, but a clear majority in the Committee share the view of the proposers that competition is not always appropriate and that some sectors in this area are not eligible for competition. Voluntary organisations play an important role for the Norwegian welfare state and are an important complement to public services. Among other things, before child protection, there has long been a combination of public and private institutions that ensure the needs of society for services in this field. The working party wants the ideal and private non-commercial organisations to continue to be an important contributor to the welfare state in the future and to facilitate it. During the open hearing in the Committee, it was found that health professionals have different practices when it comes to outsourcing and supply competitions in connection with the purchase of services, among others. anti-seizure treatment. However, what is important now is that there is ongoing work in the Government where the legal issues are assessed, and that in this context, it will be assessed which services may be held outside the scope of the competition law. For, as the Council of State says in the letter to the Committee, the complex issues, both legal and factual, are addressed in this draft representative. I would like to underline that any room for action within the EEA public procurement rules needs to be used. I am pleased that the Council of State says that in this context it should be particularly appreciated if child protection services can be kept out of the law. What is important in this context is that we ensure that the weakest in society, children in need of child-resistance services, are cared for in the best possible way and are helped and cared for. We need to ensure that strict quality requirements are imposed, regardless of whether it is the public organisation or a non-profit organisation that should provide the service. I have noticed that while the Right Party and the Advance Party want more market thinking and more commercial elements in health and care services, the Christian People's Party here advocates the opposite. The majority of the committee, except for the members of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, recommends that the proceedings be made by the minutes of the meeting. I expect that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party will explain the suggestions themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e479	Let me first give tribute to the proposers to put the spotlight on an important issue, even if I disagree with the conclusion of the proposers. It is important to facilitate the participation of non-profit and commercial actors in the provision of public funded services. The Progress Party will therefore always be in favour of proposals to this effect. Unfortunately, the proposal we are now considering is not an attempt at organisation, but a proposal to introduce an approximate monopoly on some services for public and non-profit organisations. A monopoly, whatever its services, will remove one of the most positive elements that healthy competition entails, namely a continuous focus on quality. We believe it is important to focus on having the best quality offer, regardless of the supplier, and that we get the most services back for the resources we have available. It is difficult to achieve when it is proposed to exclude private operators from the market. The Progress Party does not wish to discriminate against public, non-profit and commercial actors, as proposed by the proposers. We believe that the challenges posed by the non-profit organisations in their input to the Committee can be solved by reviewing the criteria in the tenders and by ensuring the quality of the implementation of the tendering procedures. In any case, there will always be a degree of uncertainty when concluding a fixed-term agreement with the public. The best way to avoid this is to focus on the quality and efficiency of their offers, so that they are in a strong negotiating position when new tenders are to be submitted. In this way the best possible offer is made to those for whom the service is provided, namely the users. And should it be that the best quality offer is a somewhat more expensive solution, it is permissible to choose this offer, so that this consideration is respected without introducing the monopoly model of the proposers. Another unfortunate aspect of the proposal is that it can exclude new actors from consideration. There are plenty of good stories about former public servants in the care sector that have started for themselves. They have started because they see that the public service offer is not good enough or poor. It would be very unfortunate to destroy the possibility of these private entrepreneurs, who are very often women in the health and care sector. Under today's Public Acquisitions Act, it is possible to derogate from the competition rules of NPISHs, which is unfortunate if the objective is to provide the recipients with the best quality possible offer. If it is now made an obligation to exempt non-profit organisations from the rules of open competition, I believe that it will provide less money to provide the necessary health care and that it will provide a lower supply to the population. I am therefore in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e498	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e501	Proposals promote a legislative framework to ensure diversity and action in, inter alia: drug treatment, care for drug users, rehabilitation, care for the elderly and child and family protection. The right agrees with the proposers that non-governmental organisations play an important role in the Norwegian welfare state and that they are an important complement to the public offer. In several areas, private operators are in fact the very bearer of public health services, for example in the care of drug users and in the care system. In the area of child protection, we have long had a combination of public and private institutions, which have contributed jointly to the provision of services in this area. For the Right, it is important that non-profit institutions and private organisations should continue to be part of the overall service provision in the future. It is therefore very unfortunate that Bufetat wrote in its letter sent to the various regions that commercial operators should be phased out. The red-green government has also instructed regional health businesses to limit the use of private, commercial healthcare actors. As a result, the country’s hospital waiting lists have increased by 25 000 patients under the government of Stoltenberg. In comparison, queues were reduced by 20,000 patients per year. year of the Cooperative Government. At the same time, the sale of private health insurance has increased by about 70 p.m., according to the Main Financial Activities Organisation. Private hospitals report a significant increase in patients on seagoing pay for necessary health care. This shows that the policy of the red-green government leads to a classed healthcare service, where patients with poor finances have to stand in public queues, while patients with good finances can buy out of the growing health cows. At the same time, we see that regional health companies and state child protection have an unfortunate dual role as owners of their own businesses and as owners of health and child protection services. This implies that private operators are not given equivalent conditions of competition in relation to the operation of public health and child protection services. Therefore, the right considers it important to implement organisational changes that contribute to more independent ordering organisations, which will ensure a real comparison of public and private services. Only then can the population have the best possible provision of health and child protection within the resources made available. It is also necessary to consider in concrete terms whether or not this type of acquisition is to be made by tender. In any case, the crucial factor should be the need to provide the best possible offer to the individual. The right considers that competition and tenders are important and that, in most cases, tenders are the right procedure - this is because they ensure effective use of public funds, while ensuring non-discrimination and transparency. Despite this, we realize that in some cases it may seem unnatural and unnecessary to make use of tenders, because the operators are few, and because they represent different and specialised offers that are not directly comparable. In particular, we see that this can be the case in the area of child protection, psychiatry and care. Where competitions contribute to the winding-up or bankruptcy of those operators, this may mean, in the next stage, less competition and less supply. The right is committed to maintaining transparency in the system of unsolicited acquisitions in order to prevent only some NPISHs from offering their services. We are therefore asking for a system to be set up in which, upon renewal of agreements, other providers of the same service, within a given framework, will be given the opportunity to make offers. On the right, the concerns of the proposers about the situation in the drug field are supported. The proposers refer to a number of institutions that are at risk of closure as a result of government policies and non-agreements with Health South-East. Unfortunately, it turns out that this is also the reality of several places in the country. The right also agrees with the proposers that bets on outpatient treatment should not replace existing day-to-day treatment. It must, on the contrary, be a strengthening of drug treatment and as part of the escalation plan for the drug field. Former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen of the Right made clear in 2005 that no daily supply of mental health protection should be closed until an alternative is in place. Brustad should now show the same action and require Health South-East to prevent the closure of offers in private and non-profit institutions before new treatment sites are ready. Right-hand sees private, non-profit institutions as a valuable complement and corrective to public services, and we believe that there needs to be a sensible balance between the use of tenders and other procurement mechanisms that ensure the best possible offer for users. The right supports the annex to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e533	Today’s supply policy threatens the supply of thousands of child protection children, drug users and the elderly. The non-profit organisations in the health and care sector do not have the same financial muscles as large, commercial operators or as state actors, and they often do not compete in the supply competition. But the services these institutions provide are no substitute. So if these ideal institutions disappear, then at the same time disappear enormously valuable and completely irreplaceable treatment and care services. The Christian People's Party is generally for competition in public procurement. But here it's about human beings, not computers or other hardware. It's about people who need long-term supply, competence and care. The result of today’s strong competitive focus on health and care services is that too little attention is paid to this important aspect. Short-term contracts, offers that are at risk of being abolished and competences built up over a long period of time may be permanently lost. These are the dark clouds of supply policy that today characterise an important area of health and care provision. For example, a number of institutions are at risk of being laid down as a result of missing agreements with Health South-East. The Kimerud Foundation has 21 out of 21 vacant places and has already resigned 28; the Fossum Collective Foundation has 25 out of 50 vacant places; the Valdres Clinic has 12 out of 16 vacant places, etc. The Salvation Army said during the hearing in this case that it is not surprising that most non-profit institutions are liquidated within five years if today's supply policy is not changed. This is completely unacceptable. Disabled groups are not allowed on offer. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed that non-profit institutions in the health and care sector should be exempted from the supply requirement of the Public Procurement Act. The President and the Registrar shall be commended for having shown a positive attitude to doing something about this situation. I am pleased that a joint committee, other than the Progress Party and the Right, stresses that the scope of action granted by the EEA Agreement for exemption from the supply requirement should be used. At the same time, I'm worried that the government's spending will go way too far in time. This is a difficult topic, and it is easy to get rid of all the problems and limitations. Unfortunately, things can resolve themselves, because then the ideal institutions disappear. Tapers become children, drug addicts, and the elderly. It is urgent to put in place measures to ensure that Health South-East is taking its supply practices into account and to address the contractual practices pursued in the rest of Health-Norway. The Christian People's Party wants, and we work for, a society of quality of life and community - a society in which competition and economy are instruments, not goals. I hope -- and I actually believe -- that the government shares that vision. But then, non-profit organisations must be exempted from the requirement of supply when it comes to institutional activities, and then urgent action is needed against Health South-East, so that the practice there is the same as in the other health regions. Then I will bring up the Christian People's Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e554	The representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e557	Let me start by commending the proposers for putting an important topic on the agenda, and then the case rapporteur for doing a good job in the matter. We have a situation in the healthcare system where the sale of private health insurance has increased, and which the representative Nørve was in, the private hospitals have had an increase in the number of patients who pay for necessary health care. Furthermore, waiting lists have increased by 20,000 patients under the government of Stoltenberg, while they were reduced under the co-operation government. The left indicates that one under the Cooperative Government through St.meld. No 15 for 2004-2005 on competition policy opened for exemptions from the procurement rules for the purchase of health and social services. What this government has done is to restrict the use of child protection services by private and non-profit institutions serving households. The left considers that a strong public health service under democratic governance is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used to create an equivalent offer. In addition to public health, there must be room for private actors. The left wants to contribute to the further development of today’s cooperation between private, non-profit and public healthcare providers, with freedom of choice for patients in line with today’s legislation, and where the public becomes good orderers. The left considers that in particular non-profit institutions active in the provision of child protection services represent a valuable complement to state child protection institutions. They often operate very rationally and may offer content different from that of the country's child protection services. The left is committed to maintaining transparency in the system of unsolicited acquisitions in order to prevent only some NPISHs from offering their services. That is why the Left, along with the Right, wants a system to be set up for the renewal of agreements, where there is usually an opportunity for others offering the same service to also make offers. The left is also concerned about the situation in the drug field, where a number of non-profit and private institutions providing drug treatment are at risk of shutting down, while we know that there are 3 500 people in line for drug-assisted treatment. The left underlines the importance of providing more treatment facilities for drug users and people with mental health problems. The aim should be that everyone should be able to receive treatment when motivated to do so. Drug users are entitled to health care in the same way as other patients. Children of parents with drug problems, pregnant drug users and people with both drug problems and mental disorders must receive special follow-up. The left considers that private and non-profit institutions are a valuable complement and often also a corrigendum to public services. If such institutions are closed as a result of non-agreements with regional health establishments, it is regrettable, as both important competences and experience are lost. For the Left, it is not crucial who provides services, but the quality of services and what is most beneficial to users in the short and long term. Then we need a variety of offers, but at the same time a system that gives all ideal institutions the opportunity to join in and offer their services. It requires a system of transparency in the processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e574	Let me also start by thanking the proposers for having an important debate. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have said that we will: ‘to facilitate the further development of the role of the voluntary sector in the management of societal tasks’. We want good cooperation with non-profit organisations, where social commitment is facilitated. With an open competition requirement, it is likely that these concerns will not be adequately addressed. This includes, inter alia: The proposals have been discussed by the rapporteurs. In line with this, in 2006, the Government decided to continue an exemption from the rules on public procurement for the purchase of health and social services from non-profit organisations. Government and municipal purchasers, therefore, can negotiate directly with non-profit organisations when purchasing health and social services, without having to go on the road to the open publication of competition and the process requirements that follow. The exemption implies that it is sufficient in principle for contractors to comply with the basic requirements imposed on all purchases. The law on public procurement includes, inter alia: a competitive requirement as far as possible. This means that when purchasing health and social services, a request will be made by several non-profit organisations. So one has to treat them in the same way. Thus, there will be no open competition, but there will be a sheltered competition where only the non-profit organisations can offer their services. This rule does not prevent the purchaser from e.g.: well-offered on the basis of the best-quality supplier and not to be priced as a competitive element. Nor does it contain any specific requirement for the duration of the contract. It is up to the purchaser to determine a suitable length of time based on an assessment of, among other things, the contract is valid, its complexity and the concerns of the users. In the health and care sector, it is thus permissible to conclude longer-term contracts. It would therefore be possible to enter into good, stable agreements with non-profit organisations within the current legislation. I interpret the proposers so that they are in line with the Government’s desire to facilitate the voluntary sector and to contribute to solving important tasks in society, especially in the health and care sectors. As proposer Sørfonn said, this is about man, and it is man who is going to meet the service. I totally agree with Mr Sørfonn's representative. However, the proposal to create a complete derogation from the law on competition raises several complex issues, both of a legal and factual nature. Purchases of health and social services are so-called unpriority services. This means that they are not covered by the detailed procedures of the Purchasing Directive, with a few exceptions. However, according to the EEA Agreement, the principle of inter alia: transparency, of which I have heard several, has been a matter of concern, and equal treatment in any case must be followed by such purchases, if they have cross-border interest. The cross-border interest is whether the contract has an adequate impact on the internal market. In general, it is difficult to say whether contracts for health and social services have such a cross-border interest or not. It has to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. One can look not only at who currently provides services but also at whether it might potentially be of interest to foreign operators. If we make a complete exception, there will be a question of how each individual purchase will ensure a proper assessment of whether the contract has a cross-border interest and how to comply with the EEA Agreement in that case. These are difficult assessments for each purchase. Let it be quite clear that the Government failed in these actual and legal challenges that it is important to give the non-profit organisations good framework conditions. These organisations are important actors in society and provide services of high value to the public sector. We consider the proposal very seriously. At the same time, I think it is a good idea to take a closer look at today's exception. To what extent is it actually beneficial? Several representatives have provided examples of the opposite. What is the reason why some buyers still benefit from a practice of competitive tendering in spite of the fact that they have the opportunity to benefit from the exemption? Should we simply make a kind of public counsellor, a guide where we highlight what we see as the best practice in the field? In view of this, I am pleased that a broad majority today is not willing to support the proposal, but attach it to the protocol and wait for the Government to do its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e613	I would like to commend the Council of State for meeting our proposal in an open and positive way. I'm happy to do something about this, but I'm worried that the distribution/assessment can take an ocean of time, and that the changes may be too late. Because some of these institutions are very heavy in the water, to say it carefully, and are about to go down. So my question is, is the Council of State, in addition to the assessments that are being made, willing to take rapid action against Health South-East, so that institutions that are currently in the process of disappearing can be rocked? In other words, will it ensure that health South-East is notified of the same contractual practices as other health regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e618	Then we are in the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Care, so I will not give up on her behalf. However, she is constantly making assessments of the various health professionals' practices against the Government's policies, and is, of course, well informed about the debate and attitude of the Stortingen today. Of course, I will have a further dialogue with her and continue the impression of this debate. Elsewhere, if it is possible to be a little disrespectful: When the representative of Sørfonn said that he was afraid that the changes might be late, I actually thought he was afraid of a government that is something more blue than this government is, namely a government of the Progress Party and the Right next year, which clearly signals a completely different attitude to competition policy than what this government stands for, and which I experience through this case and several other things have great support from the Christian People's Party. So to put it this way, we're going to do what we can to both make the changes that need to be made to keep non-profit organisations, and of course to win the election next year, so that over the next four years we'll also have a different type of competition policy than the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e625	I feel the need to clarify an open misunderstanding here, because there must be a way of thinking far. Until the next choice, most of these institutions are already history, if nothing is done. That's what's my problem. My concern is that the distribution/assessment may take too long. It is possible to dig deep into this, because there are complicated problem settings. At some point, an intersection has to go through, and that's what I hope the Council of State is willing to do. Otherwise, the changes may be too late, because this is urgent. That's what was the birthright in my line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e630	I share, as I said, the intention of the representative Sørfonn and the other proposers to take care of the unique efforts of these voluntary, non-profit organisations when it comes to public care, primarily, but also when it comes to other major parts of our society, where these are important actors. Of course, I'm busy having framework conditions that allow them to continue. But what I have pointed out in my letter to the Stortinget is that the proposal will not necessarily lead to a change in practice. Then a ban on competition must be introduced, and there is a possible ban on competition that raises these legal issues primarily against the EEA Agreement, which we have to look down on and assess. So I can stand here and say something about the EEA Agreement. I'll leave it, but that's where the challenge lies, not to solve it by going in for the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made here. In fact, changing practices will not be imposed on individual purchasers. Then there's another grip that has to be, and we're going to evaluate the other grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e635	I think this becomes a little bit unclear-- I don't understand everything, to say it like this. What the Council of State says is that the exception still applies. At the same time, we can document, from institution to institution, especially in the Health South-East region, but also in other health regions and within Bufdir, that the practice has changed. Among other things, agreements have been terminated rather than continued in 2007. It has been added to a completely new regime by the authorities. So the Council of State here today is talking about a complete exception. We have not asked for a complete exemption in this proposal for a representative, but as it works today, many institutions are being wound up in these days. Employees have resigned, and clients do not know where to be in a month or two. We're facing a situation where it doesn't help to figure out beyond the harvest. It's too late. Will the Council of State, together with the Minister of Health, intervene immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e642	The fact that an exception is in law is not a requirement for individual purchases, but it is a possibility for individual purchases. For this reason, I say that today's buyers have two choices: either he can choose to comply fully with competition law, as the representatives of both the Right and the Advance Party have the right to request that he should, or he can use the exemption, which we have provided, and which has broad support from, among other things. The Christian People's Party in Stortinget, and then could have a competition only among the non-profit organizations. But as long as there is no requirement to use the exception, practice will be the same as the representative Davøy also has, and one could have different outcomes. We cannot adopt the proposal of the Christian People's Party and thus in a way secure us from it, then one must actually have a general ban on competition. This is likely to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. Therefore, we need to go through it carefully and see what way we can find to ensure that even non-profit organisations can be providers in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e649	I had originally not intended to take a line, but I noticed that the council here sauces together the Right and the Advance Party. Therefore, I could imagine asking the Council of State whether she has found out that the right here is with the government parties and the left to attach the matter to the protocol and wait for what the government will bring later. We have also shown very clearly that we want one here to look at the possibility of using the voluntary and non-profit organisations where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e661	It's a very good clarification by the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve here. After almost three years as the Competition Council, my view is that especially the Right and the Progress Party are closely intertwined in all competition matters and want competition, and tougher competition, in many more areas. If this means that Right now realizes that health and care may not be well-suited for full competition, it is a pleasure. This means that we have even wider pluralities in the Stortinget for what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that we do not want competition in important areas such as health and care and education. If it now also has Right's support, it's nothing better than that, and I'm happy to record it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e668	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e673	I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has promoted this proposal for a representative. This means, as others have also pointed out, that during this period there is a solid majority in the Grand Duchy in order to limit the use of tenders in key service areas where non-profit organisations have traditionally been important service providers. I hope that this majority is solid enough to also survive a choice. However, on the right I am not quite wise in this case, because they both want a tender and do not want a tender. The point of progress, on the other hand, is crystal clear: they want tenders throughout the line. So what does the majority want? The Government Declaration states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The care services shall be a public responsibility. The Government will facilitate good conditions for the voluntary sector as important contributors and complements to public services. We do not want commercialisation and privatisation of basic public welfare services.» The Soria Moria Declaration contains many similar statements: «We do not want market governance in which the market is not functioning». «Friend organisations, foundations, cooperative organisations and others participate in many areas such as key contributors and complements to public services». «The government will: facilitate the further development of the voluntary sector in the management of societal tasks.» [[...]] This was also referred to in the letters of the Council of State. When the proposers here refer to the fact that ‘health and care services, including child protection services, are different from other services because of the need to provide good and predictable offers to particularly vulnerable user groups’, I could not agree more. However, as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I would like to add to that list of rehabilitation services and important parts of labour market measures, especially those that are most difficult compared to the labour market. And then we experience that we meet sail in the door. Despite all the good will, we see that good, non-commercial offers are dropped because they lose the offer. But these are services that are not about price alone. It is about quality, built on long experience with the specific needs of user groups. It is about users' need for security and recognition. For reasonable reasons, questions may be asked about the quality of this type of service whose repeated rounds of tenders enable tenders to be built up, and then to be built up, and new ones to be rebuilt, etc. While EEA legislation requires such services to be tendered, it is quite often called, this legislation is not absolute. That's what we heard here today. I am therefore very pleased that our government has already addressed the problem. The Prime Minister said here in the Chamber on 30 April this year that he will see if the bidding has gone too far, so that the voluntary losers, and he will use the space for action that may be in the legislation. The Council of State, on its side, confirms that she will involve different departments and many types of services in a study of this and come back to the Stortinget with the result. That's good, because it's urgent to get this field fixed before even more offers are gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e704	Many good non-profit institutions in the field of drugs, psychiatry, rehabilitation and child protection are not only at risk during these days, but are in the process of discontinuing or reducing operations. Special attention is paid to the Health South-East area. I will quote from some enquiries we have received. First from a letter from the RIO, the Rusmis users' association, explaining the consequences of the new agreement practice in Health South-East: «Storage addicts are in long queues - they get longer every day. People who have a place in a treatment institution in one place are placed elsewhere with a shorter duration of treatment. Time-limit patients are becoming more and more of them. The quality is getting worse and worse. The manifold is powdered. You're making fun of addicts. Russo-organisations and those who have built up competence over many years are ridiculed and ignored and are not included in the processes. Kari Henriksen defends HSØ, while Sylvia Brustad blames HSØ. Nothing's connected. You go back and forth in the way you argue. Some people say that you increase your capacity by laying down 70 days' space-- plus other days' space in the old south. Even outpatient places disappear in Buskerud. Reduce treatment time and say that capacity increases and quality increases. No one else sees this." Another letter is from the Josephine Foundation Children's Home, Norway's oldest orphanage, driven since 1834. They write the following: ‘When the State took over in 2004, they also took over the operating arrangements that we and several other private NPISHs had with the county. In May 2007, the State terminated these operating agreements with all of us private ideals.’ - In 2007! They go on to say, ‘We were told that we would be invited to participate in a tender. This would be a competition in which one would thus compete with the former partners in order to make an impact on their tender.’ So they say the following about the way this is done: poorer cooperation between institutions less predictable operation undesirable movement of children and young people if an institution is not offered, and thus is reduced - as we see today, the use of extra time and forces on bidding rounds of poor employment for employees due to uncertainty about continued operation, and thus the fragmentation of good staff groups The letter concludes that they are asking for assistance from policymakers. Like many others, they have met closed doors from the government. Something has to be done immediately to stop it. For how can the red-green government accept that health and social institutions, for example, in these days, tenders are made at intervals of two to four years, while in other sectors, for example: housing, can contracts be made up to 10 years? You have to be able to do something about it right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e765	In this matter, the Government is asking for the consent of the Stortinget to notify Norway into the United Nations World Tourism Organization, UNWTO. Such membership will allow Norwegian travel operators to access a large international network of competences. This matter is a clear follow-up to the national strategy for the tourism industry presented by the Government last December. This membership includes, inter alia: that Norwegian authorities and tourism industries are provided with up-to-date statistics and analyses, as well as regular trend and forecast reports. There is no doubt that we need a high level of competence among all those working in the tourism industry. But we also need knowledge about nutrition. Competence is simply a prerequisite for Norwegian companies to take advantage of the opportunities offered by travel. The membership of UNWTO will help to achieve the goals that the Government has seen for the tourism industry, to increase value creation and productivity, viable districts through several year-round workplaces and, not least, resilient tourism. It may be in the last area, which concerns resilient travel, that there is a particular need for better knowledge. This is an area in which UNWTO has a strong focus and a great deal of competence. This organisation has simply established a large network of enterprises and educational institutions around the world from which Norwegian actors can learn. For both industry and authorities, membership will be important for the exchange of experience and knowledge. The entire network consists of 157 member countries. I assume that the Progress Party itself will argue for its own minority proposal, but I want to suggest the setting from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e778	I'm just going to add a few brief comments to our proposal. We're going to debate a travel life message about a little bit here in the hall. What is being considered in this case is a small part of the national travel strategy presented by the Government. After all, we wanted the Government to present a case to the Storting regarding travel life, where you can see the whole thing and discuss the whole thing both nationally and internationally. So we're not going to get a chance to do that, but we're just going to get a few things. We believe that it is important to deal broadly with the environment of the tourism industry; therefore, we want to vote against this proposal by the Government. We have noticed that it has been said that this is a wish that the travel industry has made. Well, based on the answers we have received from the department to the questions we've asked, you can't say that there's a broad demand from the travel industry. It was the Joint League that asked the Government to consider membership. So this is an organization that has existed since the mid 1970s. It's not a new organization. There are no other Nordic countries that are in this organisation, so that there are so many benefits and are an important source, you can certainly ask questions about. It will probably be an important source of training and conferences for the civil service, but something more than that, I am very much afraid that it will not come out of it. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e791	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e809	A joint business committee agrees with the proposal that the State participate in a guarantee agreement that helps to secure the company's export finance against further losses in its securities portfolio. As you know, the state has a holding of 15 pst. in the company. The guarantee agreement, which is specific and designed for export finance needs, protects the shareholder values of the company, including the capital increase of SEK 1.2 billion from March 2008. Export finance depends on the high credit quality of the international capital markets if the company is to fulfil its task and ensure Norwegian companies a competitive export financing. The State holding is of major importance for the soundness and rating of the company in the international capital markets. The concerns of the international capital markets have caused export finance a significant fall in the securities portfolio. That is the background to the guarantee agreement with the company's largest private shareholders within a framework of NOK 5 billion. The State’s share of the guarantee framework is limited up to 750 million. kr in accordance with the country’s holding. The largest private shareholders have signed the agreement. So now the state is following. The state has a commercial starting point for its involvement in the ASA of Export Finance. But there is also a strategic element in ownership, precisely because the state that owns contributes significantly to the company's creditworthiness. I have e.g. I noticed that CEO Gisele Marchand believes that it would raise awareness of the state that a significant owner does not adhere to the guarantee agreement that the general meeting for the longest time has agreed. I would finally point out that, in the light of recent months’ developments in financial markets, the Government will make a more detailed assessment of the company’s business model, strategy and areas of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3788]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e838	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after the intervention of the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e847	We are now considering a draft representative from the Progress Party. There is no political indistinctness that travel is an important district industry. It contributes to attractive communities, although in these communities there are challenges related to seasonal fluctuations. Travel nutrition is a topic that has been discussed in this room many times during this big time period. The Minister of Economic Affairs presented its travel strategy in December 2007. The government has given record-breaking permits to travel every year since the government's government change in 2005, giving results. In 2007, Norway had 4.3 million foreign overnight guests, and there is an increase of 5.4pst. from 2006. This shows that Norway is taking part in the international growth of travel. Innovation Norway had a public promise of 200 million in 2007. kr to the international marketing of Norway as a destination and there is a doubling from 2005. There is a given Innovation Norway opportunity to invest more in international marketing than before, following the Travel Life Director of Innovation Norway, Per Arne Tuftin. In 2008, this budget line increased to 215 million. kr, and we will bet even more in the future. Then it becomes inconceivable that the Progress Party criticises the Government for being an action force in travel policy, claiming that the measures within travel life are characterised by unclear and varied objectives. From that time on, the Government defined travel life as a field of activity within industrial policy and decided that this was one of the five areas for which a national strategy was to be established, the Progress Party has been anything but constructive. They have our superpowers critical. For example, when the department was working on the travel strategy, the Progress Party believed that the government would deposit, and demanded that the matter be brought before the Stortinget. When the strategy was introduced last year, it was a good idea to get from the industry. Among other things, the NHO Travel Life said to its managing director that there were many interesting and good grips in the strategy, and they were very content to have had an impact on many of the most important issues for which the NHO struggled. The travel strategy became easily available in close dialogue with the industry and through a wide cooperation with all the departments involved, but it does not work for the Progress Party. A groceries message has to be, they meant. Then maybe it wasn't that much of a hurry anyway? It's not like a big message can be processed in a very short time. Such messages take time. From a mass tourism industry, there were many praises to be given to the tourism strategy, and there was great joy in the fact that the government had provided a holistic travel strategy, with many concrete and sensible proposals. At the same time, the Progress Party boasted and criticized the strategy. This is a travel strategy with no content, said the representative of Korsberg at that time. What surprises me even more is that the rest of the opposition also relies on the same rhetoric as the Progress Party in this matter, and concludes that the work on the strategy has not produced satisfactory results for the industry. It should be interesting to hear the respective speakers from these parties argue that a new big message about Norwegian travel life should be the answer to the challenges facing this industry - when both NHO and Innovation Norway are full of praise for the efforts of today's government. The political environment has had and has a number of opportunities to discuss Norwegian travel policies, including: where, in the context of the budget, we are to authorise the follow-up of the strategy. I want the raw opposition part to be more constructive in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e866	It is quite correct, as the rapporteur says, that this matter has been discussed many times before in this Chamber. Every time it's the opposition parties that raise the debate. It doesn't come from the government. So once again, we have to promote a document number. Eight proposals to get a debate on this. The last time we discussed this was in 2006. Then Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen was the rapporteur-in-chief. I want to quote a little from what he said at the time: ‘As I said earlier, the government will develop a national travel strategy. Therefore, it is recommended that Document No 8 be annexed to the Protocol - this is because the Government has not yet decided whether a case should arise in the form of a separate notification or a separate proposal that takes into account an action plan/strategic plan for travel life.» It was that time. Now the pipe has a completely different sound. It is clear that things have happened along the way that have changed the strategy, but it is interesting that it is the same case rapporteur, although the argumentation is slightly different. Travel life is an important matter for us. It is, in our view, an important matter for Stortinget. It is also an important matter for the Government. Then I think it should be easy to promote a case for Stortinget. I think it would be a matter of much consensus, perhaps not all of the means, but of getting it on the agenda. For travel life, very many departments are affected, and you have to have an overall commitment to it. On a quick trip I had on the Internet today, I found some articles about travel life. One was at NA24, which had the following case: «Norway - your most expensive holiday country». There they addressed all the issues that travel life faces in terms of costs. There have also been similar articles on the Internet. There are issues that appear all the time that show the challenges that travel life faces. The background to today’s articles is international surveys which show that Norway is a very expensive country for vacationing. In all three studies Norway has a bottom position. These are the framework conditions facing the travel industry, and I find it strange that the government does not want to promote a matter of travel life for the Stortinget. Almost every thing we deal with here in the hall has consequences for travel life. Farm production is mentioned in these articles as an example of what increases travel costs in the form of more expensive food. Fuel is another example. Norway is an expensive country to travel around. The road network is another example. This was the experience of the Committee when we were travelling in Buskerud and came to Hol, where all the rapporteurs who made a recording complained about the road standard. It is clear that then it should be entirely possible to have a debate which also involved other committees and state councils. So it is that not everything has gone on in the government quarter in terms of travel life. Professor Georg Kamfjord resigned his position as project manager for the national travel strategy last fall. He had quite a lot of strong objections to what happened in the government quarter - or what did not happen in the government quarter - in terms of travel. He indicated that there were nine departments involved in the process of developing a strategy. Obviously not everyone went in the same direction. He also says that the political ambition and ambition of the government do not match. He points to a number of issues in which the strategy that the Government obviously has does not have the anchoring it should have in the office. The protest and the cancellation he made showed that this has not been on the rails of the Government. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e888	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e891	Travel life is an industry in strong international growth. The potential for increased value creation in the Norwegian tourism industry is high, and in Norway we have a number of natural advantages that should be exploited in line with an offensive industrial policy. International competition in the field of travel is growing, giving Norwegian travel more and more new challenges in the future. In order to meet these challenges and to succeed better in many parts of the country, it is important that the tourism industry is given good framework conditions and that we politically facilitate increased year-round activity. At the same time, the Right considers that a strengthened and more focused focus on the international marketing of Norway as a travel destination will be important. Despite the fact that travel life has been on the political agenda for many years, the measures in this area have been poorly coordinated. The travel industry in Norway has today to deal with several departments and lack of coordination. It is therefore high time for more focused and coordinated efforts, similar to what other competing countries do. Travel life is also a significant district industry, and it is a support for value creation. It is a prerequisite for local activity and an important additional industry for declining employment in agriculture. While there are many important women's workplaces, it is said that tourism employment is greater than both fishing and agriculture in Finnland. Public efforts to promote Norway as a travel destination have increased following the submission of an action plan by the Cooperation Government in 2005 and proposed a commitment to the 2006 budget. Today’s government has pointed to tourism as one of five strategic industries and has worked for two years on a strategy for industry, without providing satisfactory results. In the position we are discussing today, the Right Party and the Advance Party can refer to more statements from the Council of State, from 2005 until now, where the Council of State has promised to return to the Grand Government with the Government’s central strategy in this area. So far, unfortunately, it's just empty words. At the same time, the Soria Moria Government promised that they would bet on several annual work places in travel life. After three years in government, unfortunately, we feel that there is also a long way between word and action here. If it is still the desire of the Government and the Council of State to show that there is a hold in the promise that we will continue to have light in the houses inside the fjords and out of the ocean gap, it will require creative political action to facilitate all-year tourism and increased economic activity. I have previously challenged the Council of State in the field of all-year tourism in the tourist and tourism lighthouses of Geiranger and Geirangerfjord. The small village with its 230 inhabitants is included in UNESCO's exclusive World Heritage List. With approx. The annual distribution of 500000 visitors over a few weeks in the summer period is a strong wish to be able to allocate tourism to larger parts of the year. Closed roads in the winter half of the year unfortunately contribute to the weakening of Geiranges as a travel life product for long periods, when the countryside is constantly isolated by snow. It contributes to cancellations and very uncertain framework conditions for the largest economic operator in the region, which is the Union Hotel. When we know that the UNESCO World Heritage Site is based on a living community and conservation of nature and culture, it commits not only locally but also nationally. I will therefore again take the opportunity to challenge the Council of State, so that the Government can show in practice that there is a real hold on the promises to bet on more all-year tourism. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State take up the challenge and promote the Geiranger World Heritage Area as a pilot project for all-year tourism? There is only a small hole missing in the mountain to allow tourist Geiranger to get open road and predictable all year round operations. The tourism industry is an industry which is entirely dependent on good public framework conditions and which depends on the whole of the framework conditions. I would therefore like to conclude by asking the Council of State to take the opposition and the matter that we are dealing with here today, in the utmost seriousness. It is hoped that the Council of State will come to Stortinget as soon as possible with its own big message presenting a much better coordination between the departments concerned. We expect a more coordinated and targeted strategy for Norwegian tourism than what we see today. I understood that the representative of the Progress Party took up the joint proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e914	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e917	The left shares much of the frustration of the proposers over a lack of commitment to travel life. Unfortunately, on 18 December 2007, the Government presented its ‘Valid experiences’ strategy, which did not find the way to the Treatment Storing. Travel life is a great industry, which many people have been involved in. It is a pity that the Stortinget was not invited to a thorough debate on the future of Norwegian travel life and the challenges that one has. Travel industry has average profitability and is no longer an unprofitable industry, but of course we find great variations here as in all other industries. This is not only a matter of framework conditions, but of course it is also a matter of skill for the individual who operates. For districts in particular, tourism has become an important industry, and is a forward-looking industry with a greater potential than one has been able to exploit so far. Tourism is often an important complementary activity to agriculture and, to the extent that other industries also contribute, and contributes significantly to both profitability and housing. I also agree with the representative Røbekk Nørve, who is fighting for a better coordinated response to travel life. She was in the world heritage area of Geiranger and that tourist destination. It is very regrettable that the way into Geiranger south-east was not opened until now in June because of the danger of race. It's hard to bet on all year tourism when you can't open the road until it's soon midsummer. If we are to be able to use the unused resources that are in travel life, we must ensure good quality of the services we are to provide. The left is excited about how much money the Government will contribute to the 2009 government budget to implement the quality assurance system for the tourism industry, especially for accommodation and restaurants. We're a high-cost country, we're expensive to live in, and we'll be in the future as well. Then it's important that there's quality that you get back when you visit us. Ireland is an excellent example of a country where the government spent money ensuring quality accommodation and restaurants. When the quality assurance system was implemented, they used large resources for marketing. Targeted work has produced good results, and Ireland is today a favorite holiday destination for many, and more and more are moving there. The reason why the Left is in favour of the proposal to ask the Government to draw up a big message on a coordinated and targeted strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry is that we believe that the tourism industry should be taken seriously, so a strategy for Norwegian travel life should have a political anchor in the Stortinget. But I record that the government will not let such a case come to Stortinget, which I also think is sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e934	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the red-green government has said that we believe it is both important and right to invest specifically in industries where Norway has all the good or special prerequisites for success. Travel life is such an area. We therefore presented a national strategy for the tourism industry on 18 December last year. We have also more than doubled the appropriations allocated to the marketing of Norway as a travel destination since 2005. This year, 215 million goes. NOK to that, and the amount is the largest ever. In addition, 190 million were used last year. to tourism from the other programmes of Innovation Norway. The funding for national tourist roads has increased considerably, and this year we received an investment fund of SEK 2.2 billion, which will also benefit travel life. Let there be no doubt that this government is serious when we say that we are betting on the tourism industry. I note that the proposers believe that the measures in the field of travel life have been characterised by unclear and changing objectives over the years. I agree, and that is exactly why we have now developed a national travel strategy. The strategy is a step towards a more coordinated and coordinated effort to realise the potential of the tourism industry. The strategy identifies a vision, clearly defined industry objectives and a total of 72 actions in seven areas of action. Work on the strategy has been a comprehensive process and close dialogue with the tourism industry. The strategy is based on important challenges identified by the tourism industry itself. The strategy has been very well received in travel. I take this as a signal that the industry agrees with the challenges we face and with the measures outlined in the strategy. I feel that the industry is now involved in implementing the measures of the strategy and the joint work that needs to be done to achieve its objectives. We would therefore recommend that it focus on the implementation of the strategy, not on a new, comprehensive work on a wholesale communication. Working on the travel strategy, I've met a lot of commitment in the industry. It is gratifying to see that the commitment to the tourism industry is also high among the big business representatives. Proposalers point out that the strategy has not been addressed in Stortinget. I would like to stress that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss issues of relevance to the tourism industry in several different contexts. The Government intends to present a new transport plan at the end of the year. We are also working on an innovation message and a new growth message on district and regional policy, to mention something. Today, the Stortinget has also addressed a bid for Norwegian membership of the United Nations Tourism Organisation. Measures with budgetary implications will be dealt with by the Storting in the ordinary budgetary process. In my budget proposal, I will also keep Stortinget continuously informed about the follow-up to the travel strategy. In other words, the size is given several opportunities to discuss the bet and priorities related to travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e957	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e960	I am a little concerned with the signals that have come from this government earlier on concerning the treatment of travel life, and it wanted the Advance Party to have a case for Stortinget. It is not just us in the Progress Party - or the opposition, for that part - who have misunderstood those signals. Obviously, it also has government parties. I quoted in my post Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, who was also the case rapporteur at the time, who clearly said that there was to be a separate staging message or a separate proposition. It was also said by the then State Council, Odd Eriksen, that: ‘I am prepared to return to Stortinget with the Government’s central strategies in this area.’ He also referred to what was available from the previous government - which was not ready for treatment, but was to be reworked to a message. When did the Government change its mind about presenting a case to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e971	I have seen the quotes the representative refers to when it comes to my predecessor, Odd Eriksen, and I have an overview of what I have said myself. It has been stressed throughout, from both the previous and the present state councils, that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss travel life issues appropriately. That's what Odd Eriksen has stressed -- if the representative had now quoted Odd Eriksen completely. Our starting point is that the Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will present a strategy for the tourism industry. That's exactly what the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e978	Like the Council of State, the rapporteur for the case, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, stressed the time aspect of producing a travel life message and presenting it to the Stortinget. But it is a fact that the government's work on this has not been of particular urgency, as it took more than three years to put forward a tourism strategy for the industry. So that's a very strange argument in that respect. The appeal by Hansen and the Council of State also points to budgetary increases. But there is no doubt that what this government has done is to continue the proposal put forward by the Bondevik II government in the 2006 budget, and then to stay at about the same level. And then we look at responses to this travel strategy, among other things. from the NHO, that the strategy contains little measures to increase the growth or magic of the tourism industry on a broad basis. I think there is little doubt that the tourism industry, which is so important to Norway and the districts, and which covers so many policy areas, deserves a broad debate in the Stortinget and a big message. And my question to the Council of State is, why does the Government have such a reluctance to present its own big message in such an important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e987	Here I have to be allowed to comment on some of the premises for the questions first. Firstly, it is entirely wrong that there is no change in the rate of money spent on the travel industry from the Bondevik government, which in its last budget spent 100 million. NOK, until now when we spend 215 million. kr for the marketing of Norwegian travel lives. Secondly, the time we have spent in the tourism industry has actually been very hectic, because we have worked with the tourism industry itself, and we think it has been important that the industry - small businesses, large enterprises, experienced companies, hotels, transport companies, etc., i.e. the whole of the tourism industry - should be involved in designing the travel strategy that we have presented. In contrast to what Hansen says, it is actually that in the tourism industry -- out in reality -- this strategy is well received, not least by the NHO Travel Life, which confirmed it at a conference last week at the latest. I note that the industry is satisfied with the strategy, and that is the most important thing for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e998	It is such that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for the tourism industry and its framework conditions. When a traveler comes to Norway, often on the basis of the marketing of some places, with fine pictures and idyllic surroundings, he rarely thinks about who is responsible for one and who is responsible for the other. Such a place is just what I was in my post: Geiranger. This year it was such that the so-called Stavbrekkkfonna created insecurity when it came to opening the road to enter Geiranger south-east. Now we have not been given insight into and debated the strategy that has been put forward, but is there anything in the strategy to coordinate travel and transport and to look more comprehensively at this, so that we get a better experience product overall for those who come to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1007	As the representative is of course aware, it is not that I stand here prioritising road projects rather than other priorities within the counties, for example. But to the representative’s question as to whether such coordination exists, the answer is yes. Firstly, the representative and everyone else have full insight into our travel strategy, which is printed and distributed. And I'd like to bring a copy over to the representative, who is now asking about the content of it. In terms of coordination: Yes, we have now set up a State Secretary Committee to coordinate work between departments that affect travel activities. That's one of the measures we've taken. We set up a separate department in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, which is just about to follow up on the interests of the tourism industry. We're going to launch a strategic council -- it's going to have the first meeting on June 26 -- where, together with the industry itself, we're going to follow up on that kind of thing. In addition, of course, in the context of the national transport plan and other key documents to be provided by the Government, I am trying to take care of travel life in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1018	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3788]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1036	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1045	The Government has proposed to increase the allocation to the Maritime Directorate by a further 28 million. kr to remedy the staff and resource situation of the directorate. The size will later this week join this proposal. The Directorate is satisfied with this additional allocation, maritime safety considerations are taken into account, and the Directorate is given the opportunity to acquire the necessary capacity when purchasing services from outside. I have not registered that the Right has responded to this, and therefore assume that the Right is satisfied with the Government's proposal. In other words, there is no basis for criticism of either the Maritime Directorate or the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the management of a relatively demanding manning situation. In retrospect, however, it may seem that the Bondevik II government was somewhat optimistic in its assessment of crewing and recruitment when the Maritime Directorate was added to Haugesund. But that's another thing. By the end of April, the Directorate had 30 unoccupied posts, mainly in the areas of technical and maritime competence. The Directorate is working intensively on recruiting new employees, but in a market with a high level of competition for maritime labour, and perhaps especially in the impact field of the Directorate, it will take some time for all posts to be filled. In addition, new employees need time for training and to gather experience. I am therefore afraid the directorate must live with certain capacity problems for some time, which in itself puts pressure on both management and employees. Most of all, the Maritime Directorate should now have the ease to build up its organisation and acquire the necessary skills. In today's situation, it is particularly important to ensure that all ships are able to obtain their necessary certificates in due time. Large new construction activity at Norwegian shipyards is an additional burden for the directorate, and I am therefore satisfied that they can now purchase services from the class companies to meet today's needs. In its explanatory memorandum on the proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs express concerns about maritime safety and suggest that, as a result of the manning situation, the directorate could be tempted to go along with safety requirements. In time, this coincides with the fact that the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, obviously believes that that's exactly what the directorate should do, when he criticises the Minister of Industry for not intervening with the Directorate, who, on his side, has sat on his hind legs in relation to the approval of a whale safari boat on Andøya. Here, Mr. Sanner calls for a political solution to review the existing legislation. So, of course, it could be desirable if the Right kept order in your own house. No less remarkable is the fact that the proposers call for the establishment of their own maritime supervision to take over parts of the oversight activities of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. Since the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is a Directorate-General for Supervision, such a reorganisation will be a matter of overseeing the Authority - or, in other words, of controlling the inspectors. Under the Bondevik II government, with Victor Norman as its main exponent, supervisory activities became a major growth activity. Supervision has contributed to the red tape of public activities, they contribute effectively to making public activities heavy and inefficient. It is still good that both the Department, the Maritime Directorate and the Shipowners’ Association warn against making organisational changes that will lead to further fragmentation of the Directorate’s activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1060	I'm just going to add a few brief comments to the proposal we have. This case has a history dating back to 2003, when there was a large-scale shift of state supervision, and the main argument was district policy. We were at that time opposed to the move of the Maritime Directorate from Oslo to Haugesund, simply because we were afraid of losing a lot of good and important competence along the way. That's in many ways what's happened. It is now seen that there are major challenges to finding measures to ensure recruitment and to maintain skills. It is true, as the rapporteur also says, that this will be a long-term capacity problem. That is why we are promoting the proposal in the vote today. We think it is right that this is a matter that the government looks more closely at, and that they come back to Stortinget with proposals for possible solutions and not least give the Storting a status report on the situation. On that basis, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1069	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1072	The Economic and Social Committee has the overall responsibility for following up activities in a number of State bodies under the four departments that the Committee follows up in its work. We therefore rely on the Government to report a fairly correct picture of the situation in each area, in the annual budgetary documents we receive for consideration in the Committee. A central authority in the maritime field is the Maritime Directorate, which will contribute to a high level of safety for life, health, vessels and the environment. In addition, the Directorate is an important management body to contribute to a competitive and efficient maritime cluster, through a smooth and unbureaucratic management of control and oversight tasks. There was nothing in the 2008 state budget that suggested that the Maritime Directorate had major challenges in solving its primary tasks. On the other hand, it was stated that the move to Haugesund was carried out by 1 November 2006, otherwise everything seemed to be in its best order. That's why it was very surprising for the Right when we got informal signals that there was almost a crisis in the Maritime Directorate early this winter. Furthermore, we were made aware by the media of the letters from the Maritime Directorate sent to the Department on 9 January and 14 February, only a short time after the budget was adopted. In the letter of 9 January, i.e. nine days into the new fiscal year, the Maritime Directorate reported a need of 50 million. DKK in additional appropriations for a budget of 258 million. kr. It appeared from the application that, in the absence of an increased framework for 2008 and 2009, the management of the Maritime Directorate takes a very serious view of the situation. The Maritime Directorate wrote in the letter of 9 January that the risk that the directorate's case handlers make mistakes, either because of lack of competence or because of hard work pressure, is large and will increase, and that there were challenges in the job to get ships to sail. Therefore, the right-hand party raised the matter in written questions from Biggest Representative Rolf Jarle Brøske to the Council of State dated 12 March, and received the reply that certain measures were taken with the purchase of services from class companies to improve their capacity. In addition, it was stated, in the relatively short response, that the Government considered that the situation did not represent any safety risk. However, we felt that the picture drawn by the Maritime Directorate itself in the two letters was so serious that we found it appropriate to present the proposal we are examining today, namely to ask the Government to review the Directorate's activities and also to submit proposals for changes and measures to ensure that the Directorate's activities are properly managed in terms of safety for life, health, shipping and the environment. While this matter has been under discussion in the Business Committee, the Government has come up with proposals for additional appropriations in the revised budget of 28 million. kr, on which the rapporteur was present - not the 50 million. kr that the directorate originally applied for, but well on the way to meeting the needs of the directorate. In addition, the Government of the revised budget provides a fairly broad review of the situation and describes some measures that can remedy it for the Maritime Directorate. Furthermore, the Business Committee has received a lot of written information and had a hearing with the Maritime Directorate on the situation. This has been useful and interesting. It has provided a clear explanation as to the safety and service of the maritime cluster, which provides a basis for taking note of the situation. The right notes that much of the problem is referred to the relocation during the previous ageing period, as well as high activity at Norwegian yards and the pressure in the labour market. However, I have to say that the move is quite a long time back, and that the experience of moving other supervision has been better than for the Maritime Directorate. I therefore find it difficult to blame for the challenges you have faced, on the move process alone. In the light of the review provided for in the revised budget and in the Economic and Social Committee, as well as the proposals for additional appropriations in the revised budget, the right will propose to attach this matter to the minutes. However, it is important that the Government follows the situation in the Maritime Directorate very closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1095	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1098	When the proposers request that their proposal be annexed to the Protocol, this suggests that the management of the Maritime Directorate by the Government is sufficient. It could be done, in so far as the proposers are concerned, by contacting the Department or the Directorate before the proposal was submitted. In addition, I informed Stortinget about the situation in a letter dated 14 February 2008. Proposals for increased appropriations for the revised national budget strengthen the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs’ budget by an additional 28 million. kr. The move to Haugesund has given rise to major challenges in ensuring recruitment and competence. It also coincides with the fact that we are in a period of very high shipbuilding activity. It's positive, but it also puts a heavy strain on the working capacity of the Maritime Directorate. Some of the additional appropriations are therefore to be used to purchase services from class societies so that ship certification is not delayed. I am therefore pleased that both the majority of the Committee and the proposers seem to be satisfied with the management of the situation, and I can assure you that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has a continuous dialogue with, a close follow-up and cooperation with the Maritime Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1112	It is true that the background to our proposal to attach the proposal to the protocol is that we feel that the government's management is now revised and the review of the nutrition committee is sufficient, and that the directorate should have work to solve the challenges they have faced. What is my question, however, is why this situation arises. So we get a letter from the Directorate on 9 January, nine days into the new budget year. If we go back a month, we will adopt a government budget where the description of the Maritime Directorate shows that there are no problems, you have a normal development, and the move was carried out in January 2006. What is the background to the fact that this challenge, which could not possibly have arisen in three months, was not mentioned in the 2008 state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1121	The background for this is, of course, that the special situation that we received a letter on 9 January was not known until the state budget was presented at the beginning of October. The reality around it is that you have, as I said in my short article, and that, not least, the case rapporteur elaborated more thoroughly in his post, a challenge in recruiting personnel, while we have a period of very high activity. However, what is important to stress, as the Maritime Directorate immediately underlined in the light of the newspaper headlines about the Maritime Directorate, is that it was wrong to present it as if some boats sailed without clearance, and that under no circumstances would the situation in the Maritime Directorate go beyond safety. It then remains to have sufficient capacity to ensure that the progress of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is not impaired either. Finally, I have to be allowed to say that I believe that a serious body like the Maritime Directorate, with the commitment they have for maritime safety, had been earned that perhaps something more was asked -- that they either asked the Department or the Maritime Directorate -- before it was concluded that security was in danger, because there is an organ we all need to have confidence in when that's the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1131	There is no reference to the word for line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 3788]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1149	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1158	The Economic and Social Committee is now presenting its position on the proposal for a representative from Torbjørn Hansen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Bent Höie on the growth of the aquaculture industry. The marine industry is a very important industry for Norway, which contributes to the creation of value added and jobs throughout the country. The last figures I've seen show that we have annual export revenues of NOK 37 billion from this industry, which makes a significant contribution to social development. The marine industry is primarily an important district industry that provides a basis for housing and jobs in small communities along the coast. The wording indicates that all parties in the nutrition committee are concerned that the industry is developing in a sustainable way, with a high level of attention being paid to environmental considerations. Similarly, it is important that the potential of the different sites be exploited and that production be adapted as far as possible to the opportunities offered by the market. And there you have to say that the consensus ends. As the notes show, there are differences in views between the parties on which policies serve industry both in the short and long term and how this should be reflected in policy. I expect representatives of the opposition to explain their views in the debate. However, it is important to remind each other that we are discussing an industry that works in a very demanding market situation, which also calls for soundness of mind and stability in administration. Discussion of the issue of increasing the maximum authorised biomass, MTB, has been central. In particular, representatives of the marine industry in the Møre and Trøndelagskysten have given clear notice that they are now standing on the roof of the MTB and that they need to raise this limit. I suppose that is also one of the reasons why this proposal is available. The Government fraction refers to the strategy for a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry presented by the Minister of Fisheries last summer, focusing on sound and sustainable growth and development in industry. The growth of production is mainly to be taken into account in new permits. It shall take place in 2009. The government is now preparing the new concession round, which is completely in line with the strategy. A concession round allows for a geographical distribution of MTB adapted to environmental conditions. I noticed that it was on the basis of reports from the industry that the MTB was set at 780 tonnes under the Bondevik government in 2005, and it was then assumed that this would be fixed over time. So this is what the government is following up on. I recommend that the majority vote be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1186	This is probably more of a explanation of vote than an article. I just want to refer to the proposals and comments we had in the budget position for 2008 and also to the proposals we have made in the vote on the revised national budget, which will be examined on Friday. Since we have a very good knowledge of the industry and good contact with the industry, we promote two very specific proposals on Friday. The reason why we do not support the Right’s proposal today is that we believe that the proposal is too vague. We believe that this type of proposal can be much more specific. That is also what the industry wants. But I would like to commend the proposers for promoting this matter, because it is a very important matter for the opposition parties. I think it is sad that the government does not meet the industry in any area with regard to the requirements of industry with regard to the possibility of growing nationally, and not least to grow internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1197	Right-wing wants an active enterprise policy that allows businesses to create new jobs and economic values across the country. The seafood industry gives us export incomes of more than 35 billion kroner each year. Over half comes from aquaculture. The growth potential of wild caught fish is, of course, limited from the point of view of the resource situation, while the potential to increase in aquaculture is quite enormous. Growth in the aquaculture industry can take place both through the development of new species and through the increased production of salmon and trout. Right-wing wants both parts, but in the short term the possibilities are greatest by increasing existing productions. This is a very timely matter. We have a disease situation in Chile and a demand on the world market that makes the outlets in the consumer market good. Norway has areas and environmental capacity to significantly increase its volume. The trade policy arguments for holding back growth are clearly weakened following the WTO judgment. More agriculture also means more healthy and environmentally friendly food in a world where food shortages are a challenge. The UN Food Programme asks for a doubling of aquaculture production by 2030. This challenge points directly to Norway. In such a situation, the Government and the Storting must exploit the possibilities. The Bondevik II Government introduced in 2005 the new MTB system, the maximum authorised biomass, while abolishing the feed quota regulation. The change gave all actors the opportunity for significant growth - perhaps as much as 30-40 pst. measured in volume. This was a silent revolution, which created enormous values, without much political debate. However, farmers are now re-entering the production ceiling as defined by the 2005 MTB scheme. This is why the Right believes that the time is overdue to discuss growth in the aquaculture industry. I think it is sad that the government does not get on the track until the 2009 budget. We could already achieve more in aquaculture today with a little bit more political commitment. In addition, the government announces that new farming concessions will only be awarded in 2009. Increases in MTB are rejected by the Minister for Fisheries. This seems very passive. A growth strategy aimed only at distributing new concessions has at least three major weaknesses: First of all, it's going to be unfair because only single actors are growing. A concession can be gold worth-- maybe as much as 30 million. kr. It'll be like winning the lottery for the few who get a new concession, while everyone else is standing back as a blackmailer. The right is in favour of the distribution of new concessions in regions where there is already little farming. But just basing on new concessions is going to be unfair. Most farms in the country, including aquaculture, need volume growth every year to maintain margins. Secondly, there are regions where there are a relatively large number of facilities and limited opportunities to distribute new concessions. On the other hand, there may be a significant environmental, sustainable basis for increasing production in existing plants by increasing the maximum authorised biomass. Thirdly, growth through new concessions is a very slow process. First, award criteria shall be established, then all interested candidates shall apply to the concessions, then the lucky winners shall be picked out, and then the winners shall establish new facilities and put meltdowns in the sea. The economic impact will only appear in 2010 and 2011. I can't see a single reason in today's situation not to give farms in areas where it is possible, to increase the permitted biomass and thus the possibility of a fairer but also immediate increase in production. The government's bastante no to increased MTB must be perceived as a political brake operation. Is the wish for a political emphasis on coastal new allocations more important than a fast, fair and profitable growth strategy? We have tried to challenge the Council of State in terms of this adjournment to increase the output of existing plants. It's not easy to get wise on the answers. The pheasant is, as the Council itself writes in reply letter No. 2 of 3 June: ‘A general increase in MTB is practicable.’ In other words, it is only about political will. It is therefore obvious that this government has become a brake block for the aquaculture industry. In the right, we believe that we need to get away from the system of politically determined number of farming concessions for salmon in the long term. The award of new concessions or increased maximum authorised biomass should be based on what is possible within an environmentally sustainable management. The removal of this system must be properly investigated and implemented for those who have concessions today. But the signals from the industry are quite clear. Most people want to remove the politically defined numbering restrictions on concessions, and everyone wants to have increased MTB. So this is probably a matter where the government doesn't think it relevant to listen to business. I want to record the Right suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1234	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1237	With a relatively short history, aquaculture has evolved into one of the most important industries in the country. We exported seafood for NOK 37 billion in 2007. Should Norway be able to maintain its position as one of the world’s largest exporters of salmon and trout, the Left believes, like the proposers and others, that the farming industry should be guaranteed growth opportunities. Norway has natural conditions that allow for the rearing of several species. At the same time, the Norwegian farming industry is currently under-focused on market-adapted production. The result has been that the industry has had problems with profitability during periods. The left will call for the Government, in cooperation with the industry, to look at measures that can help the industry achieve more market-friendly production, increased production diversity and increased investment in new farming species. A much larger aquaculture industry than at present requires consistent use of environmentally friendly technologies and practices. The left agrees with the proposers that growth in industry must be limited by what is environmentally sustainable and that an increase in MTB, the maximum authorised biomass, and the award of new concessions require stricter environmental concession requirements than we have today. The left believes that increasing MTB and providing new concessions before we have a regulatory framework that imposes greater requirements for the use of environmentally friendly technologies and operations, as well as better protection of escape facilities, will start at the wrong end. That is why the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, is promoting a proposal in which we ask. ‘Government reviews current legislation on the concession of the aquaculture industry with a focus on economic profitability and environmental considerations based on the precautionary principle and sustainable development, as set out below. Ot. pp. No 20 Marine Resource Law’. [[2007-2008]] On this basis, I take up the proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1255	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1258	In August 2007, I presented the Government’s strategy for a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry. This strategy shows that the growth of production in industry will be phased out in the award of new concessions, for the first time in 2009. The Government further aims at annual allocations in order to create predictability for business operators. It will not only ensure that the established actors get better production conditions, but it will also open up to new actors. A general increase in MTB, as requested by the proposers, is practicable. However, the MTB system, which entered into force on 1 January 2005 under the Bondevik II government, with the right-wing fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen, was provided for over time. That's what the current government has been dealing with. MTB is a unit of measurement such as: used for all food fish farming in the sea, i.e. not only for salmon, trout and rainbow trout. Various authorities, including: The Directorate of Fisheries, Food Safety and County Councils also use MTB when delimiting the size of permits at local level. The MTB ensures that all administrations have one size to deal with. Representatives Hansen, Røbekk Nørve and Höie have proposed a gradual winding-up of the concession system. As I understand the proposal, this means that Section 7 of the Aquaculture Act, which applies to salmon and trout, is removed from the law. The last time the issue of the concession scheme was dealt with by Stortinget, the Bondevik II government presented its proposal for a law on aquaculture in the spring of 2005. At that time, with the exception of the Advance Party, all lots joined the proposal to continue the concession scheme in the form of a number limit, the possibility of regional distribution, etc. The government believes, as the government parties said in 2005, that this is a good, forward-looking and predictable policy. The concession scheme, combined with the MTB system, provides the industry with stable conditions for operation and contributes to relatively controlled salmon supply, so that the effect of market fluctuations is mitigated. It provides room for a balanced industrial structure, innovation and diversity, while at the same time strengthening the competitiveness of the industry. I would also like to remind you that Norwegian salmon industry continues to live in a difficult commercial reality and is continually facing the threat of protective measures, including: from the EU. The concession system practised under the Act § 7 is a production regulatory tool. The system helps to reduce trade policy challenges, and I would like to remind you that Norway has recently been through a demanding panel case against the EU in the WTO. In the establishment of the Nutrition Committee, the minority, at the Right and Advance Parties, states that the growth of the aquaculture industry should not be restricted by artificial political volume limits. At the same time, the same members will not lift the regulation of production. I am uncertain as to how the representatives feel this is linked. The question really is whether a person wants to do firefighting or preventive work, and I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the former is the best. I would like to remind you that the Government will come back with its proposal for a new allocation round for salmon and rainbow trout in October in connection with the 2009 state budget. I would also like to remind you that the Aquaculture Act contains a separate chapter on the environment and that this government is very concerned about the sustainability of the aquaculture industry. Finally, I can also inform the representative of Kongshaug that we are working on revising the technical standards for farming facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1281	I think it is nice that the Council of State still relies on the job that Svein Ludvigsen did in the Ministry of Fisheries, but I must be allowed to state that the job in terms of the aquaculture industry was not done for all the future, even though a lot of good happened in the last growing period. My line goes on something that has created some shock waves in the industry, namely the government's order for areas that are less suitable for increasing salmon, trout and rainbow trout, from the Fisheries Directorate. The Directorate has gone through region by region, pointing to less suitable areas. One of the areas that according to the directorate is less suitable is Nordland. In the Nordic region, there are many actors, and the Directorate writes that it is difficult for new players to find land available in the Nordic region. On the other hand, current actors, established in the region, will not have problems increasing their production. That means that the government's idea of granting only new concessions will cut Nordland off any opportunity to participate in that growth. Does the Council not see the need to increase the MTB size of Northern Ireland, so that they too can take part in the growth coming in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1290	I think it is very interesting to listen to the representative Hansen, and we have had a lot of discussions in this room where the representative Hansen has underlined the need for predictability and stability and used it as an argument every time the current government has changed the policy of the previous government. It is therefore interesting that the representative Hansen will now turn down the policy his own government presented three years ago. With regard to the Fisheries Directorate's report, there is an order based on sustainability as a prerequisite for defending growth in the aquaculture industry, which I and the Government are in favour of. The Fisheries Directorate has made a recommendation in this way, but I would like to stress that it is a recommendation, and that the Government has not yet concluded on that question. Today, we have sent additional questions to the Directorate for Fisheries, such as: deals with Nordland, and asks whether to treat the whole of Nordland as recommended by the Directorate of Fisheries or whether there is room for growth in that county.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1297	For many years, the right and the industry have believed that the aquaculture industry has had a good potential for further growth. Therefore, the right has made proposals for an increase in new concessions annually, without the Council of State having taken the industry seriously. Why has the Council of State not proposed an increase before now in the 2009 budget, an increase that will only take effect in 2010-2011? Why has it been so long?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1304	In 2007, when I presented the Government's aquaculture strategy, I announced that the national production ceiling would probably be reached in 2009. Therefore, the Government would aim at a new concession round in 2009 and then have annual concession awards. This is notified for a while back already. So the government has also said that we want the increase to take the form of new concessions, not the increase in MTB. It gives a much more fairer distribution, because an increase in MTB will favor those actors that are already within today, and will reduce our ability to take environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1311	I took the line again, because I did not feel that I got any good response to my previous line. The Directorate for Fisheries points out that in some regions there are so many breeding companies from before that it is not very wise to distribute new concessions. On the other hand, the review by the Directorate-General for Fisheries shows that increasing production at each plant can be fully environmentally sustainable. Does not the recommendation from the Directorate-General for Fisheries show that it is important to have a balance between the award of new concessions and the increase in production of existing installations from which there are many installations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1318	It's the way sustainability depends on the locality. The representative is right that in some parts of the country you could increase the MTB without going beyond sustainability, while in other areas it would be completely wrong to do so. In Hardangerfjord, we have, for example, put the foot down for further growth now, and it will be a completely wrong signal to increase MTB for the players in Hardangerfjord in the current situation. Increasing the MTB in general, as proposed by the Right, will favour those actors that have premises where they can expand, while those who do not have growth sites will be excluded from the increase addressed here by the proposers. A new concession award will ensure a growth that also takes account of the type of environmental parameter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1323	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3789]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1338	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-16.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1498	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 5-12, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 13, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1514	Following the debate on this matter, we discussed with the Council of State the issue of the location of new service centres for migrant workers. We are well aware that in addition to the notified service centre in Kirkenes, a centre will also be established in Stavanger. This is planned to be done during the year and taken into account in the State budget. On this basis, I would ask the proposers to amend their proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1519	The service centre in Stavanger has been a major topic both in committee and now in the debate today. When I get this information from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Council of State, I think it's very good. We should then have the confidence of the Government that we are making the proposal for a transfer proposal, and expect the matter to be settled in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1524	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended to the Government to establish a service centre for migrant workers in Stavanger, according to the model of the service centre in Oslo.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. - It is deemed to have been adopted. We shall then proceed to the vote on the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1549	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-12, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the proposals presented in the notification are put into effect from 1 January 2009 and that individual trials are submitted at an even earlier date.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a long-term visa scheme for employees employed in enterprises located both in Norway and abroad. The visa must be valid for unlimited entry and exit from Norway. This must be done within the framework of our Schengen obligations.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take a closer look at the tax challenges associated with the transfer of staff across borders’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on work permit as a skilled/specialist so that the requirements on competence are more clearly determined by the employers.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘In the case of prior approval of undertakings, the Stortinget Government asks that the requirements imposed on employers must satisfy the conditions laid down in the Public Acquisitions Act, i.e.: that they can provide certificates of added value and tax and comply with legal requirements in the fields of health, environment and safety.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether an Internet portal should be established in accordance with the model of www.workindenmark.dk.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the introduction of a training programme for immigrants in the extension of the introduction system, where these can continue to be trained directly after Norwegian, social and work life training, such as health professionals.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a national strategy to recruit people from abroad with very high qualifications and students at doctoral level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1601	There is a vote on Amendment No 4, tabled by the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess approval schemes and legislation relating to work as au pair in Norway and to promote its own case in this respect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1617	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to work actively towards Eastern European countries with a surplus of health workers in order to make it easier for migrant workers from these countries to take up work in the health and care professions.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate in order to ensure a good follow-up to the Action Plan against social dumping.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1650	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party and proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposals of the Christian People's Party will first be voted on. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests that proposals be made by the Government to ensure that non-profit institutions providing health and care services, including child protection services, are exempted from the requirement to submit tenders under public acquisitions law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that health south-east follows the contractual practice of health care services followed by the other health regions as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1680	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘Document No. 8:76 [[2007-2008]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1708	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to promote a travel life message where any membership of UNWTO becomes part of the notification.’; This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1807	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a report on a coordinated and targeted strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1836	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right It will first be a vote on the proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the activities of the Maritime Directorate by 1 October 2008 and to present it to the Stortinget with proposals for amendments and measures to ensure that the activities of the Directorate are properly conducted in terms of safety of life, health, ship and the environment.’ The voting boards showed that 79 votes were cast against the proposal and 23 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.45.27]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1857	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1862	Then the number of votes changes. The proposal is therefore 80 to 22 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1894	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left It will first be voted against by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the current legislation on the concession of the aquaculture industry with a focus on economic profitability and environmental considerations based on the precautionary principle and sustainable development, as set out below. Ot. pp. [[2007-2008]] No 20 Marine Resource Law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1917	There will then be a vote on the proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to promote sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry, by allocating future growth between an increase in the maximum authorised biomass and the award of new concessions. [[MTB]] At the same time, a gradual winding-up of the concession system should be investigated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-2.ana.ud1730e1977	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
