ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e99	The representative Finn Martin Vallersnes, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e116	The propulsion party has in the vote a proposal that I am referring to, and I would like to justify it. Let me begin by stressing that the Progress Party has not in any way intended to interfere in which candidates the various parties want to nominate the Nobel Committee. What we are concerned about, on the other hand, is that the Nobel Committee should be set up with the independence and weight that the Committee needs. And sometimes it's the way that the Nobel Committee presents candidates, people, who, for political reasons, may need to have an arm's length distance. It may be for security, foreign policy and diplomatic reasons. That's why we think it's unfortunate that sitting poachers join the Nobel Committee. That is also why we have allowed ourselves to propose that the candidates in this case refrain from meeting in the Nobel Committee until they are formally and effectively out of the Storing. We are even prepared to draw our proposal if, during this possible debate, it is made clear that we are prepared to follow the advice to refrain from meeting the Nobel Committee until we are formally no longer a big-time representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e125	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e128	A brief comment on the problem that Siv Jensen is raising: it is correct, as the setting shows, that it has been discussed in the past. When you're stuck with the practice that you are, it's because this has a rather inward and outward side. Of course, it's okay within a body that you agree that a person who is formally appointed as a member does not meet for a certain period, but it's not as good outside. And it is above all to protect the independence of the Committee in relation to the normal Norwegian political system, including the Storing and the Government, that one has adhered to that line, because otherwise it could easily be perceived from the world as if one did not uphold the principle that the Nobel Committee was properly appointed by the Norwegian Magnificent, in accordance with the Nobel's will, but it is not the Norwegian Magnificence that governs the activities of the Committee in any way or affects the work of the Committee. That's why, for my part, I want to maintain the majority's view, that it's wise to keep the lines just as clear as you've done before. Otherwise, without at all going into any assessment of the setting – it is certainly excellent, and it has emerged according to the practice that is common – I just want to point out what we also had a little discussion about in the Presidency in advance of this, namely that the way we do this, by the fact that the parties by the order of magnitude that sovereignly nominees their candidates, makes it no instance responsible for the whole of what arises. If you had thought that this time you had a position that would have given you a committee with four male and one female members, it would certainly have had a debate in relation to the equality requirement. Now you've got an attitude that's just mirrored, and basically it's the exact same thing, but by itself very understandable reasons it doesn't trigger any public debate. It just illustrates the point: there is no body that has any overall responsibility to ensure that the whole thing is balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e151	The Committee hereby submits a budget entry. S. No 10 for 2008-2009. I'm the spokesman for the race. 43, the mayor of the county, and I'll come back to it a little bit. To the extent that the other case spokesmen thought it necessary to make comments, I expect them to do so. There are two minority proposals, one from the Right and one from the Progress Party. From the point of view of the Progress Party, the proposal will be put forward and founded by Mr Carl I. Hagen. In the case of the Civilo Ombudsman, I will briefly mention that the Ombudsman in the draft budget from the Ministry has received an increase of 11.6 p.m., and the Committee suggested that everything important is used to shorten the procedure. It is particularly important that when people have been able to come over the threshold to submit a complaint to the Civilo Ombudsman – which is a useful institution in our society – that the procedure time is as short as possible, so that the individual gets a relatively rapid response. As I have said, the Civil Ombudsman is an important pillar of our democracy. It is important to take care of that pillar and develop it further. The Committee has seen and learned in recent days about societies and states that have not developed a democracy that is on our edges, among others. The Civilo Ombudsman and not least the Riksrevision have an insignificant role, but where there is a need to build it up, so that democracy can be further developed. We know that both the Riksrevision and, to the extent that the Civilobodsman are also involved in the construction of democracy in the world, in a number of co-operation countries that Norway has. The Committee will also look at Serbia in the new year, and perhaps be involved in the participation in that area. In these words, I present the Committee's configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e166	I have a proposal to raise – proposal No. 2, from the Right – and I would like to explain it briefly. It's two-part. One is a cut in the Storting's general allocation, and there I will refer to the justification in the financial position. The second is a proposal relating to the allocation to the King's seat. Three of the members of the Committee last year had a comment asking the Ministry to look at the need to refurbish the King's seat. The King's seat is a popular gift to the Norwegian king and is unfortunately in a very bad condition today – in such a bad constitution that it makes it more expensive in many ways to clean everything up. In our opinion, it would have been reasonable to put it into the allocation and to allow for a refurbishment. When it's not followed up this year, we're going to go to the unusual, in this area at least, to make a suggestion that it's given 2.5 million. kr for refurbishment of the King's seat. It is the Right's proposal, which is partly in line with a broader proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e175	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e178	Let me first take up the proposal of the members of the Progress Party in the Committee, proposal No. 1, which has a cut of 12.5 million. kr in the support of the party groups here in Stortinget. There is, of course, a significant increase for the batch groups, despite the significant savings of several groups. There's plenty of room to show some moderation, which was a popular word in yesterday's debate, and not have an increase to the party groups on the Storting that go far beyond the rise in price and cost in society, that is, a real strengthening of the party groups that we don't think is necessary. We will then reduce our original budget – what was in the financial situation – by 30 million. kr. Our framework was not adopted, and then we must stay within the framework of this budgetary position. We're proposing to cut 12.5 million. kr. We are cutting along like the Right, which has made a proposal that we will subsidize if our proposal falls. We also increased by 2.5 million, just like the one on the right, the appropriations for the King's seat. kr. I share the view of Per-Kristian Foss, but will be allowed to add that it is difficult to accept gifts that, after a while in reality, result in the need for maintenance that does not come with the gift, and in the case of funds intended for entirely different purposes within the Royal House, for a minimum of cleaning, so that neither the building nor parts of it roughly fall apart. I think it's embarrassing, when one year is a unanimous committee of control and constitution that opens the way for the private property of the King's seat to also be granted funds above heading 51, which is otherwise intended for state-owned properties and their maintenance used and managed by the King's House, and asks the Department to see if it can obtain funds for the absolutely necessary repair and maintenance of the King's seat, that a government neglects a unanimous wish from the Grand Duchy. The royal house actually took it seriously and believed that Stortinget meant it, and applied for funds for refurbishment and maintenance of the King's seat. They thought that when a unanimous magnification had expressed it, a government would in fact add weight to the Big One's request. The sitting government has not done that. I also pointed that out last year. I guess the same thing did Per-Kristian Foss. Nevertheless, the Ministry and the Government have not undertaken anything, but have accepted that the King must use anti-tampers not intended for the maintenance of buildings for the implementation of the completely necessary maintenance and refurbishment of the King's seat. It is embarrassing that the sitting government treats the Kinghouse that way. I think it's sad and can only regret that a large number of people do exactly the same thing, saying that what we said a few years ago, we didn't mean. It has thus been said that in the case of the Royal House, the Royal House must not take seriously unanimous comments from a committee. You can't give it the weight to trust it. I think that's embarrassing, and I'm really ashamed on behalf of the Storting. This is totally unnecessary, especially at a time when everyone is talking about that now there is a need for work for building workers. Now it would be the perfect time to speed up the necessary maintenance and refurbishment of the King's seat. But here too, the red-green government shows its smallness, and perhaps it is also the old-fashioned – let's say – poor uproar about the monarchy and the poor view of the importance of the Royal House. I'm embarrassed. The other 10 million. If we cut down on the support for the party groups, we have distributed it to the Supervisory Boards of the Storting, i.e. the EOS Committee, the Civil Ombudsman and the Riksrevision, according to the size of the appropriations allocated to them. We are in a time when there is ever more power gathered in the executive. There are more and more areas where citizens and businesses need to ask nicely for permission to do things, including their own properties and businesses – but in the sense that they don't ask for permission, as we did when we were young children. We in our industry, politicians, have managed to wrap it into completely different terms, so instead of saying that you have to ask politicians and bureaucrats nicely for permission, we have said that you have to apply for concession, you have to apply for waiver, you have to apply for permission, you have to apply for permission, you have to apply for permission, and you have to apply for permission. It all means asking nicely for permission, and then the other thing is deciding. With this power in the public sector, we think that the need for control is growing. We have taken note of this by strengthening the Supervisory Board of Storting also to reduce the processing time of some of them, and to ensure that we have effective control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e189	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e192	Only a few brief comments in relation to the dissent relating to the proposal for admissibility to initiate what may be necessary to do on the King's seat. It's true that there was an agreement to open up that it could happen even through donations directly and not just via the apanage, which is common to do in terms of the private properties of the royal family. But I actually think that it might be a little wise to do things in order, because there have been considerable funds spent in recent years on a necessary and proper refurbishment of the Castle, where there are actually certain needs left, even outside, in the Castle Square, with which there is a need to do something. Then have we built a King's Court, which is established. It was also necessary, and you're going to the Oscarshall, where you're not done yet. I think it's an advantage that this is taken into account in turn and order, so it won't be too large a volume in too short a time. I think that makes sense in view of the royal family's reputation as a reasonably sober royal family in terms of consumption and money use. With regard to the link to activity-creating measures, for which Mr. Carl I. Hagen pointed out that it could be the right time, it must be allowed to say that I think the royal family is actually doing its good job of increasing activity through various cab projects, even though the King's seat might have to wait a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e204	I think Svein Roald Hansen must have misunderstood something, because the maintenance work on the King's seat is going on, but financed via the plan, so that it is not going to happen to delay this when Svein Roald Hansen might think that money can be allocated for the uplifting of the King's seat. It may then be completely cleaned and maintained, and then it is funded by private funds. That's what's been the problem, that there was a lot of work that had to be done. The Committee has seen this on its own when we were on an inspection a few years ago at the Royal Court. So the argument for Svein Roald Hansen does not keep water because the work has been started and is in progress. In any case, I think that it would be possible to assess in future to the revised national budget for spring whether it would not be sensible to delay maintenance work, to speed it up because of the crisis that has arisen in the past. At least one can ensure that some of the redundancy is financed by item 51, and at the same time it can be part of the package that government and accumulation will probably come with in the new year to improve the activity of the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e211	If you've started work, at least the argument of creating more activity is weakened. If it's happened for private funds, I think it just shows that it's not imperative to do it any other way than you've done it so far. I am quite sure that both the Castle, the Government and the Stortinget will agree on how it is handled if in retrospect it would turn out to be an excessive burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e216	I rather believe that in reality means that the royal family and the King take responsibility that a building does not suffer as a result of a lack of maintenance, and seams that should go, as was actually meant by the Storting, for other purposes, but that must then go to the maintenance of the King's. Can't Svein Roald Hansen also look at this relationship in the sense that it's a little awkward that the Norwegian people give a gift, but it doesn't follow from the Stortinget, who is a representative of the people, with some means to maintain this building when it's imperative, of course also to preserve the building, which is certainly on the Riksantikvaret's list and must be preserved. Why can't you take responsibility for finding these few, poor millions to take responsibility for the people's responsibilities given to King Haakon?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e224	That the royal family and the castle take responsibility for their private buildings, I think it's very good, and it just confirms that we have a royal family that are good examples in that area too, because that's something we should all do. I don't feel like it's embarrassing that you've done what you've done for a long time, that's taking responsibility for what's private buildings, even though this has a history as a popular gift. This is at last a total sum where you see apanage and direct grants in context, and I think most people will perceive it so that the resources the Castle and the royal family have at their disposal seem to be of a reasonable size.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e231	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e249	A strong public sector is the key to a good welfare country. Proper use of computer technologies will be an important tool for public services that is more flexible, better adapted to users and more attractive to employees. Computer technology can only replace humans to some extent, but it can be used in other ways that make everyday life easier for both users and employees. An example is the exchange of information between ministries and other state activities providing a basis for better coordination of services. Setting up services for individuals and businesses on the Internet can help meet users’ needs in a better and simpler way. The National Audit Office’s study aims to highlight the extent to which management exploits the possibilities of using electronic information exchange. What obstacles are encountered, and what measures have been taken? The survey is based on two surveys of 17 ministries in November 2006 and 144 state establishments in March 2007, with a total response rate of 84. Data analyses have been carried out, inter alia: eNorway 2005, Public Sector ICT Strategy 2003–2005, eNorway 2009 — the digital leap, and a number of interviews. I record that the study shows that many businesses have come a long way in establishing their own solutions, but that the possibilities for exchanging information between businesses can be exploited to an even greater extent. Almost every third enterprise has information that may be essential for other enterprises, and even more believe that others have information that would be useful in their work. The challenges are therefore: how to improve the exchange and exploitation of information. The National Audit Office has also carried out an in-depth study of three services, namely applications for grants and loans from the State Loan Fund for Education, Application for Building Authorisation and Application for Vehicle Registration. It is clear from the study that there is much to be gained from the further development of ICT use in these services. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration carries out its coordination through plans, strategies, guidance and existing forums of different kinds. None of the forums have decision-making powers and therefore have no power to impose administrative measures. This makes implementation difficult. The findings of the National Audit Office show that two thirds of 37 actions with a deadline of 2006 were still in progress or not implemented at the end of the year. It demonstrates with all clarity that it is difficult to obtain a sufficient impact on measures that are not directly required to be implemented. It is particularly worrying when objectives related to security solutions have not been achieved. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration has, of course, taken a number of measures to facilitate the cross-cutting exchange of information, but there is reason, as the National Audit Office points out, to ask questions as to whether the Ministry has a clear understanding of the order and priorities of the measures and the relationship between the objectives and the financial resources at its disposal, among other things. to finance cross-sectoral actions. It should be possible to involve the Ministry of Finance in the allocation of the necessary funds. I have noticed that the companies believe that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration is not tough enough in the drive for increased electronic information exchange. Nor do the departments of trade show sufficient commitment to strengthen such activities in relation to their underlying establishments. This gives reason to ask the Council of State to take action to improve this situation. Proper competence is another point of appeal in the National Audit Office’s report. The investigation reveals that one third of the establishments do not consider to be in possession of the appropriate competence. Here the ministry has an important challenge that I expect to be followed up on. The Ministry must be a tough driver, impose requirements and follow-up to the enterprises in order to ensure the further development of public services through increased electronic exchange of information. It is also necessary to pay particular attention to privacy considerations in the further work. Otherwise, the vote is unanimous, but the Progress Party has an additional comment, which I assume they themselves will explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e275	The left wants to make some comments on this matter, because it is a very important matter. The renewal of the public sector and the use of technology in this innovation are very important. As we have said earlier from this pulpit, it is clear that Norway has two advantages that make us survive in international competition. One is that we have a well-educated people, and the other is that we're always quick to apply new technology. The area where we're not as quick as using new technologies is in the public sector. From the left we must say that we felt that the Bondevik government had a much greater pressure on this, both in terms of developing strategies, and in terms of exchanging information and creating new systems between the agencies. This requires a public strategy, not just at one Council of State, but at the wishes of all the Councils of State, and then the Council of State that has the overall responsibility has to push. It was particularly important for us to draw us into this debate. The left is pleased that the opinion on privacy is unanimous on the part of the Committee. But we have to say that we had been waiting for a little more criticism, especially in the case of sending out the equation information and the person number to nine editors, which is also commented on in the setting. It's a very rough thing. It says something about the basics of privacy in an establishment, when you can do something like that. It's not just an accident. This is a fundamental position in a system when it is possible that such things happen. What is called a major breach in this area is pointed out by the Data Protection Authority. This is the responsibility of many government councils, but it is extremely important that the seriousness of the government's breach of privacy begins to rise. If you don't build up a basic attitude to this in the public system, I think we're facing a everyday life with new challenges, among other things. in the form of new technologies, when data protection laws and regulations are not even capable of being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e286	There is reason for me to comment on some of the comments and the case-speaker and the representative Skei Grande's comments on the matter. As I see it, the National Audit Office well documents several of the challenges we face in the public sector related to ICT. However, I would like to remind you that the audit period is largely 2003–2006, which is essentially a matter for the previous government. The audit period was also completed before this government launched St.meld. No 17 for 2006–2007 in the United Kingdom in December 2006 — An information society for all. She was discussed in the Transport and Communications Committee. At that time, all the references from the Riksrevision were addressed by the Government, and the message received very good treatment in Stortinget. There was a great deal of agreement that the challenges were there, and – not least – that the government had a point of departure. I share the Riksrevision's view that coordination has not come as far as you would like. But as I said, one has made significant steps since the revision period went out, and they are largely treated and addressed in St.meld. No 17. Let me just mention something of what we've done. We have just had more focus on stronger governance and coordination of ICT developments, and we have intensified efforts to find common solutions. These are the two overarching challenges we have to a large extent. So in the public sector, we have less than 430 municipalities. Then we have hundreds of states. We have nearly 800 different units that have an independent basis of decision within ICT. It goes without saying that there is a major coordination and coordination challenge. Then one of them has to get caught. Then it's about taking back power and authority that's been delegated. I'll mention three of the things we've done about governance and coordination. The first is that we've started to standardize the entire ICT area. This has led us to have the world's first demonstration train on the street outside here – for our suggestions. Because someone was against, there was someone demonstrating for the Government's proposals. It's round one. We're in the process now, and the government gets second rounds of standardisation proposals from our standardisation council, which will further increase coordination in the state and not least in the municipalities. We are also in the process of implementing a regulation to impose on the municipalities the same things as the state has been imposed, and there is a great deal of agreement in the municipality of Norway that one needs standards. If one only takes care of the health area, everyone understands that there is a lot of efficiency gains to get if one gets a more standardised exchange of information. The second is that we had to get a lot of work done on this. This has been done, and we have now received a report on governance and coordination of state-owned ICT investments. We know they're big. The National Audit Office has previously looked at ICT investment, and it is rare that they have received praise, to put it exactly the way it is. That's why there's every reason to grab hold of it. The third thing we have heard now is the proposal for a common framework, i.e. the principle of how ICT is to be built within the sectors and between sectors. In the professional language, one calls it ICT architecture. We'll deal with that, too. It's about standardizing and imposing what things should look like, just so that they can hang together. In the case of joint solutions, I shall mention two projects. There are projects that Stortinget itself is involved in allowing money. One is the Altin project, which has been what one could call a cross-political project – for several governments – and which is being further developed now, with a new 208 million. kr. It's already a success, and we see in the business that they save resources, and we see that the public saves resources, because communication goes electronically. In addition to the inhabitants, the electronic ID will trigger the same efficiency and flow. I just have to say to the representative, Trine Skei Grande, who is standing up here asking for measures to streamline and renew the public sector: the left cut with 20 million. kr in the largest measure we have in my budget for next year, linked to electronic ID, which is the basis for exchanging, not least of personal sensitive information, the provision of privacy. So there's a little difference between life and learning when it's just that. Then we've created the Directorate of Administration and ICT, just to work on the practical solutions, get the tools in place and make this look like life. It was created on 1 January of this year to work with the major ICT projects. When it's about privacy, we've increased the number of rights by over 10 million. kr. We've looked down on the Privacy Commission in good cooperation with Stortinget, and with wide representation. That report is in print now and was sent to me shortly after Christmas. Then Stortinget and we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss new proposals that will strengthen people's privacy. So after the audit period was over, the challenges pointed out by the Riksrevision have been very precisely addressed, but we also pointed out in St.meld. No 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 970]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e332	The Committee is essentially composed of the comments on this matter, but a minority, the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have a special comment which, in itself, takes up a unanimous comment from the Trade Committee in connection with its Inst. S. No 99 for 2005-2006. It asked the Department for a separate case on how to ensure the rights of adults to initial training. In St.meld. No 42 for 1997–98 The reform of competence showed that very many adults were missing — and wanted — primary and secondary education as a basis for further learning. During the review of the Storting Communication, the Stortinget stressed the need for a national level of competence for low-educated adults to enable Norway to meet the challenges that the future society of competences would face. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess whether the implementation of the adult’s right to such initial training has been in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. Adults born before 1978 received a statutory right to secondary school education in 2000, and in 2002 adults who needed it were entitled to primary school education. This meant realising proposals that were launched in St.meld. No 42. The study shows that legalising the rights is not enough to generate a demand. It may seem that persistent weaknesses in information work are a major reason for explaining the low level of participation of adults. In very many smaller municipalities, initial training for adults is not established. This may result in not all adults being able to meet their training needs, as desired. As the National Audit Office points out, the Ministry now also sees the need to strengthen the statistical base, in order to monitor and monitor adult learning activities. The survey, as is known, has found that there are major weaknesses in government statistics and reporting. It is a good promise that the Directorate, the Statistical Central Bureau and the Vox will work together to improve this. This may help to increase initial training. The National Audit Office has also identified non-discrimination with regard to the issue of whether adults’ recognised real-time competence results in curtailed and adapted secondary education courses. These provisions are interpreted differently and contribute to different practices. According to the Riksaudition, this has existed ever since the entry into force of the law. Then it must be high time to get this in place. It is also important to give priority to the supervision of municipalities and county councils, in order to respect their statutory responsibilities towards adults. The government is now working on a notification of competence where I assume that the training provision for adults is being given a central place. I expect the Council of State to say something more about this if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e345	In 2000 and 2002, the right of adults to adapted primary and secondary education was statutory. So there's nothing wrong with the formal rights. The question is therefore whether the rights are valid today. We know from the OECD Adult Literacy and Lifeskills Survey that in Norway we have about 400,000 adults with poor reading and writing skills and poor numeracy, actually so poor that they are cutting below the level that international researchers think is necessary to cope with a modern working life. Much of this, of course, is due to that close to 20 pst. students leave their childhood without being able to read and write properly. It's propagating, naturally, on. Good education, with a focus on basic skills, is an important preventive factor in this. We also know that the reading deficit group is overrepresented among the unemployed and beneficiaries. It's not particularly surprising, precisely because many of these adults are struggling to keep up the job. Especially now we have major challenges. We're experiencing a major drop-out in high school. 34 pst. by the students cancel the training or complete the training without being in one or more subjects. To date, these students have been welcomed with open arms in a labour market that has been desperately looking for labour. The problem is that when the labour market now looks worse, these young adults are the first to be kicked out of the labour market. For the slightly older adults, the same problem is reported. They have managed the job well for many years, but then new skills requirements, changes and new technologies are introduced, and then they can no longer hang out with them. They're being pushed out of the world of work. The main conclusions of the Riksrevision report are that the actual participation of adults in initial training is very low. This tutorial is not well-known. Few municipalities and county municipalities monitor the needs of adults for initial training and almost no monitoring is carried out by local authorities. Substantial weaknesses exist in the fulfilment by both central and local authorities of obligations to provide basic adult training. In addition, it is — and it is not surprising either — that those who already have education or have a lot of education are more likely to take more education. This is often due to the fact that those who are not educated or have little education have negative experience with the school and education system. Flexible solutions are necessary. Initial training for adults can be very stigmatizing. Many of those who have interrupted the course for various reasons have just done so because they have a negative experience with the school situation. In addition — and most will understand this — it is a very big barrier for adult people to sit on the school bench, perhaps at the same primary school where their own children go. Sitting on the school bench there in the evening can be seen as quite stigmatizing for many. One of the things that has proved to be the best results is to be able to take the training in the company where you work, and that the training is linked to the daily activities and developed in cooperation with the employees. In this context, I would like to point out that the Bondevik II government created what was then called the New Chance, and today is called the Program of Basic Competence in the Workplace. It is a very good system to stimulate companies to take greater responsibility for basic reading, writing and calculation training among their employees. In the 2009 budget, the Right has proposed to strengthen the 100 million scheme. kr. We also know that some of the success criteria for such things to succeed are that the right to training is made real, concrete and not least specified. The right proposed in Document No. 8:10 for 2005–06, the development of an ‘adult qualification card’ scheme, which incorporates the results of training as they arrive. Following the introduction of the Knowledge Commitment in 2006, where curricula have been modified so that concrete objectives of competence in all subjects can be identified, it will be possible to link the objectives of competence and the achievement of the objectives. This way, you'll be able to constantly demonstrate your increased competence. Many adults who are out of work and who are therefore not affected by the type of schemes such as: Programmes for basic skills in the workplace are meant to be out of work because they have a problem with the basic skills. They should all be offered a non-stigmatizing way of mapping language skills and their calculation skills, by doing so fairly automatically for all those who, for various reasons, are in contact with the instrument because of lack of work. There must also be greater consistency between the right of training and the provision of training. The National Audit Office's report shows that one third of the municipalities do not have primary school provision for adults, and that very many small municipalities have no offer at all. So it's especially the small municipalities that are the challenge. Then there is little help with a formal entitlement to initial training. Adult learning skills need to be strengthened. Learning adults to read is something quite different than learning a six-year-old to read. Very much of adult education consists of learning error learning. It takes completely different educational approaches than learning six-year-olds to read. Not least: this is a large and complicated field, as the case-rapporteur was also involved. For this reason, a unanimous Committee on Education and Research, in its position in the context of the examination of the Right-wing Proposal, asked the Ministry to come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis, proposing how the right to initial training of adults can be guaranteed in a real way. It's now two and a half years ago, and we're still waiting for a response from the government. The reason we wanted a separate case on this in our time was simply that it should not necessarily be confused with any other training and competence policy. It is a complex field that requires special attention. Therefore, we still believe that it is in place with a separate case for Stortinget about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e371	We have just listened to two good articles, which in many ways reflect the challenges we face in this field, and which we want for very many years. The National Audit Office has had the starting point to assess whether the Ministry has retained its national responsibility to assist in the provision of basic and advanced education and training required by the Training Act. The National Audit Office’s report is on several points critical of how the basic training for adults has been maintained. There are unsolved tasks related to the participation of adults in initial training, which means that both the local and state sectors face challenges requiring new measures. In further work, I take with me the results of the Riksrevision's report and the comments of the Committee. The national audit has concentrated on the issues of formal learning in ordinary learning. Many of the Ministry's efforts have been directed towards the growth of the labour force with weak basic skills, cooperation with Nav on job seekers and learning in other ways outside the ordinary challenge system. These measures are not covered by the investigation. In the report, the Riksrevision points out that participation in initial training among adults is relatively low compared to what was expected when adults were given an extension of the legal right to training. I note that the measures in the follow-up to the skills reform have not as much as expected led to increased participation in formal initial training for adults. A good explanation for this, I believe, is that there must be some presidencies in order for adults to benefit from public supply, for example. the ability to combine training with work, support for life support and the working and living situation in general. There is good reason to believe that the way in which these conditions are provided for the individual, together with the labour market situation, has a significant influence on the motivation to participate in training. In recent years, the labour market has been good. The fact that it has been easy to get a job may have contributed to the fact that many adults do not feel that they need more training. I will follow developments in the labour market closely. It is important that municipalities and county councils, in cooperation with the labour market governance authorities, follow-up with good supply. I would like to remind you that it is the municipalities and county councils' duty to fulfil the individual's right to basic and further education. Nevertheless, in some cases it has been unclear whether the legislation is sufficiently understood by the school owners, for example. where there is a possibility of adaptation within the framework of curricula. I have therefore asked the Education Directorate to provide a good guide on how basic training for adults can be adapted within the framework of the teacher’s plans. The National Audit Office further points out that weaknesses in information work are an important reason for the low level of participation of adults. I think that an important premise for the information work must be that those who need information should get it when they need it, and that the information is directed towards where the target group is, for example. in working life, in the Nav system, etc. In order to meet the need for training in basic skills in the labour market, the establishment of the Programme for Basic Skills in 2006 In the same year, the Ministry of Knowledge initiated a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion and the KS to ensure better cooperation between the local Nav offices and the local community sector on training as measures for job seekers. Both of these measures are targeted at groups of adults who are often not caught by their local authorities. I have also asked both the Directorate of Education and Vox to continue working on information measures that can make the target group better. The Riksrevision also believes that, in order to keep up-to-date with continuing training, it must assess its real competence, that there is a lack of equal treatment between the municipalities and that there must be an equal understanding of the legislation. The system of assessment of real competence is demanding and will imply a certain understanding. A code that is so detailed that it removes the skinning element could be of little use in terms of both content and scope. It is also important to observe the principles of individual assessment on the basis of which the scheme was based. But I agree with the Riksrevision that there is still a potential for improvement in the development of the system for assessing real competences. I have therefore already asked the Education Directorate to work to ensure that county councils develop a more similar practice when it comes to assessing the real competence of adults. The statistical base for adults in continuing training is missing, and I see that there is a need to strengthen this in order to better monitor and follow the activity of adult learning. Problems include: related to the different administrative reporting systems in county municipalities and their reporting in different ways. A working group of representatives from the Education Directorate, the Ministry, the SSB, the municipalities, the VIGO Steering Group and the Vox has been set up to improve the statistical base. The group will investigate, inter alia: the national guides necessary for the establishment of a common system of procedure and registration. The National Audit Office points out that local authorities and county authorities have little supervision over their follow-up to initial training. In recent years, the Directorate of Education, on a mission from the Ministry, has done a significant job of reforming and improving the county’s supervision under the Training Act. The ministry considers the change to be successful. The supervisory resources were strengthened in 2008, and a strengthening was also proposed in 2009. It shall provide a basis for increasing the level of supervision of the county, both event-based and national supervision. The theme of supervision is chosen from the knowledge of the state of the sector and how the legislation is practised. An overall assessment determines which theme will be prioritised. I also see that the division of tasks and responsibilities between the Directorate of Education and Vox may have appeared unclear, and may have prevented the best possible impact of actions directed at initial training for adults. I have therefore had a review and clarification of the division of responsibilities and tasks between the Directorate of Education and Vox, particularly with regard to basic training for adults entitled to such training under the Training Act. This change could help to make basic training for adults more clearly anchored in the dialogue with the sector and make it clearer and more consistent. Their responsibility for the guidance and interpretation of the Code will be clarified. A clear division of tasks and responsibilities between the directorate and Vox will include: be able to contribute to a higher prioritisation of initial training for adults, especially when it concerns work to obtain knowledge of how the legislation works in practice, and when it concerns the management of legislation, information work, etc. A clearer division of tasks and responsibilities will also help to better coordinate documentation and analysis of adult learning. This means that Vox’s duties are transferred to the Education Directorate from 2009 onwards in direct relation to basic training for adults with this right. Resources are also transferred from Vox to the Education Directorate to build a good competence environment and to strengthen its work in this area. Then I can also mention that of many more long-term measures, we are in the process of preparing a big message of competence for the future. Of course, the competence needs for low formal challenge adults will also be covered by this message. Not least in the current cyclical situation, this will be a very important topic for years to come, as well as the competence situation for young people in advanced schooling, both of which are major challenges, and where many individuals will meet a tougher labour market in the years to come, especially those with low basic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e401	The adult training reform was in its time the reform of good intentions and was to grant adult rights that they did not have in the past. The National Audit Office’s investigations clearly show that it does little to legislate for a right only if it does not follow up with structural changes that enable these good intentions to be implemented in the municipalities and county councils. I think a lot of municipalities and county councils when the legislative proposals were adopted thought carefully about how this would turn out in their budgets, and how they were going to be able to finance this new offer. Although the use of adult education has become much less than one initially imagined, probably the two conditions are interrelated. A municipality and a county municipality that sees that it is most likely not to be compensated financially for the costs that this reform will entail will also not run around and market the offer particularly well. Therefore, I am a little surprised that none of the previous speakers have mentioned the financial situation. It is true that both offers and information on offers are essential for the right to be effective, but funding packages also need to be provided, and the Progress Party believes that this type of training should be financed through a single price scheme, so that county councils and municipalities do not suffer financial damage in order to do a good job. The national audit studies just show that the municipalities and county councils have not done a good job enough to implement the good intentions of the reform. For this reason, I would strongly urge the Council of State, when the Communication on Adult Education Reform comes, to also assess the financial aspects of the adult training reform and a funding model that enables it to stimulate municipalities to expand and improve the provision of adult training, provide information and thus contribute to the reality of adults’ rights to initial training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 970]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e426	This national audit report is a follow-up to a similar study presented in 2005. That study revealed a number of shortcomings in the achievement of the objectives related to the duration of the proceedings of key actors in the criminal justice chain. This was the case both in the police, in the state lawyers' offices, in the courts and in criminal matters. The size at the time looked seriously at what was revealed, and thought there was a need for a new investigation in the near future. So it's this successor that we're going to end today's treatment. Effective criminal proceedings are important both for legal certainty and for people’s perception. The size has therefore set time limits for the different stages of the procedure. The national audit has looked at the achievement of the target in relation to ten different deadlines. Four of these apply in relation to cases where the defendant was under 18 years of age. The present study shows that there have been clear improvements in the achievement of the target since the previous survey, in fact at all stages. This is positive and suggests that the measures taken have been effective. However, there is still a breach of deadlines in a significant number of cases. It is therefore absolutely necessary to continue to work actively to improve the achievement of the target. In some cases, there may be good grounds for not complying with the deadlines. Therefore, the law also provides for exemptions if ‘special circumstances are obstacles’. The reservation has been taken into account both for legal certainty and for practical reasons. It is absolutely essential that both the investigation and the proceedings be sound. The defendant's freedom of defence shall be safeguarded. In particular, in the case of young offenders, there may also be concerns about having the personal and social situation of the victim properly monitored. It is also important to facilitate individual follow-up and appropriate criminal responses, especially for young offenders. This means that there is an overall committee which considers that non-compliance with the time limits is acceptable when it is necessary for the proper functioning of the procedure. But the possibility of exception must not be a sleeping cushion. The time-limits for their initial maintenance are set and it shall be possible to keep them. It's e.g. not satisfactory in cases where the offender is under 18 years of age, when the time-limits from a case have been received for the initiation of main proceedings in the main proceedings and the law enforcement is respected in less than 50 p.m. of the cases. The same is true of the time limit from the time when a case is received in criminal proceedings and the time of the commencement of settlement. The study also shows that there are considerable local variations in compliance with the deadlines, both at the police, at the state prosecutor’s offices and at the courts. Comparisons show that in some cases the differences between districts are so large that this cannot only relate to differences in case content and complexity. It is therefore appropriate to ask questions about non-discrimination. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the Department takes into account the facts that the investigation reveals. Although improvements have occurred in a few years, this is not good enough. Further action needs to be taken to further reduce the duration of the proceedings and to improve non-discrimination from area to area. At the same time, it is important that due account be taken of the proper conduct and the legal certainty of the individual. Let me just point out at the end that the representatives from the Progress Party and the Right have some specific comments in the vote. From the point of view of the rapporteur, I consider these comments to be more complementary to the joint comitology, and therefore do not have any content on the part of the rapporteur on the basis of criticism. However, I refer to the comments of the entire committee, which I think are comprehensive in view of the view the committee has wanted to make in this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e443	It's important that we have an alert look at how the criminal case works at all stages. An important part of this is that statutory time limits for processing time are respected. That's the theme of this case. The survey at hand identifies the achievement of the objectives of the police, the state prosecutors' offices, the courts and the criminal justice system. The rapporteur said that since the previous investigation there have been positive improvements at all stages, which is very good. This suggests that the measures taken have been effective. However, there is still a breach of some general deadlines in some cases. The housing queue was around 2,500 people in 2005; today the housing queue is less than 500. That is, we almost don't have any real reconciliation queues. Nevertheless, we see from the report to the Riksrevision that more than half of the convicted people have to wait more than two months for compensation. This gives bad signals both to the offended, to relatives, to the condemned, and to society in general. Therefore, the work continues to cut in the pay queue. The exceedances in violence also give unfortunate signals and unnecessary burdens to those affected. I would like to stress that an effective criminal case is very important both for the sake of legal certainty and for the legal perception of most people. Fast follow-up in all stages also has a preventative value, either individually or in general. It is also important that police procedures be speeded up in order to ensure that evidence is provided and that the case can continue in the judicial system. In some cases, however, there may be good grounds for not complying with the deadlines set. It is important that both the investigation and the proceedings are sound, although this may mean that deadlines cannot be kept. Derogations from statutory deadlines are allowed here. It is also important that, especially for young offenders, provision is made for individual follow-up and adapted criminal responses. I believe it can be accepted that the deadlines are not met when it is necessary for the procedure to be sound. Action is still needed to further reduce the duration of proceedings, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty for individuals. It is necessary to have procedural systems that provide information on time and reasons for breaches of time limits and to facilitate the follow-up of cases throughout the criminal justice chain. However, I would like to stress that the government has done a lot in this area, and that the figures are really on the right track at all stages, as this case also shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e458	Let me start with the conclusion, which is to give tribute to the Ministry of Justice because it has actually addressed a good part of the challenges that were raised last time, and also a great reward for the National Audit Office, which is still holding the department in its ears. So there's the dynamic that's needed to move forward. In this way, I think it is absolutely right to give honey both ways. At the same time, it is also correct, what was said on the part of the rapporteur – I assume from my point of view at all events – that the comments on which the Right and the Advance Party stand together in the vote are a continuation of, and at all events no contrast to, the Committee. So that's perfectly understood. The reason why you have chosen to post these comments is, among other things: two ratios. One is that quick and good processing is extremely important for the sake of a person who is a possible perpetrator. So the person in question clearly needs to clarify as quickly as possible if he has committed a criminal offence. It is, of course, a great burden to go around and have the suspicion against themselves. In that way, it's about doing that as quickly as possible. The same will also apply to the person who is a possible victim. For the victim, it might be at least as tough, and in some contexts it's clearly worse, because you're going to wait to know if you're being believed, with the burden it brings until there's an exact sense of what's happened. It means at least I'm two of the primary things we have to look at. Something else that I think is important about the Riksrevision report is that it has pointed out that the department's figures and references have not been correct in some contexts. That's what I expect the Council of State has registered, and I expect him to follow it closely up in the future, because I think that's unfortunate – it may not be a correct word to use, but it's not good when that happens. I assume that this will be followed up, and that the Council of State will take note of the point I am making here. Similarly, I am lucky to note that there is still a potential for cooperation. Things can be improved through even better cooperation with the agencies concerned. It will again serve both a possible perpetrator and the victim. Overall, it will serve the rule of law. That's what's obvious and the primary thing in this case. Finally, my conclusion will be that rapid processing is a key, but it should never be at the expense of legal certainty for any of the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e475	Let me begin by saying that the study that the Riksrevision has now done and that the committee has dealt with, we are taking very seriously in the department. We always take the Riksrevision studies seriously, but this is particularly important also for political reasons, in addition to the more auditable, mainly because we write in the Soria Moria statement and believe that it is important if we are to prevent new crime, that the reaction comes quickly and effectively. It's absolutely crucial. There are many who are involved and who compare to the question of speeding up criminal proceedings. As you can see, the follow-up to the Riksrevision is very useful to us. Then I would also like to point out something that the case rapporteur also had in mind – and I believe that the case rapporteur had a very good report in relation to how we from the Regeningas and the Department assess the situation – that these deadlines set in the criminal case cannot be absolute for each individual case. I understand that a broad political majority also agrees with that. Where you don't get to the bottom of who the perpetrator is, where you look for good reactions especially to young offenders, and where you need to make sure that you get good defenses at the right time, we can't set deadlines on an ongoing basis, but we need to ensure that legal certainty takes place at the right time. That's the other one. The third thing I want to point out, which makes the investigation important, and which may be a challenge for all of us, is that when you present this kind of investigation from both the National Audit Office and from us politicians out in the media, it is almost presented as going all the way in the wrong direction, and courts, police and prosecution authorities don't deliver. The nuance underlying the Riksrevision, as well as the Letter from the Ministry of Justice, that there must be significant improvement, in many of these areas one must have improved the whole sector, is important not only to show that everything is going better – it can be good enough for politicians – but also that it is useful to do something in this area, that one can succeed in reaching the deadlines set by the Stortinget and that one can also succeed in achieving the political objectives we have in relation to the criminal proceedings. In many cases it is more important to have a rapid response than necessarily to have a strict response. Getting in quickly, especially towards the youngest lawbreakers, is absolutely vital if we're to see any effect of it all. That is why I think it is important to point out that the developments which the rapporteur also saw show that, for example: in the case of violence and the 90-day period, where 22 pst. of the cases were within the deadline of the last investigation, now more than 50 p.m. and that the average period of proceedings for the first half of 2008 is now down to 114 days. We're approaching both averages, and what we want as a deadline, the goals set in these matters. This is something we are now discussing in close dialogue with the police director, the National Attorney and other actors, so that we can ensure that developments continue. When a deadline is set for the police in relation to those under 18 years of age, to sue within 42 days, they had a goal achievement in the previous survey of only 4 pst. The first half of 2008 shows that the average duration of treatment is now 30 days, and that more than half have been treated after 16 days by the police. There is reason to give the police credit for the fact that in the situation the police are in, they are able to deliver on these matters so quickly. It is absolutely crucial to the youngest lawbreakers. I could take several of the cases, but I'll just stay short of the court's efforts. There's reason to point out that the myth you've probably had for years, that everything takes so long in the courts, the courts are about to push aside. The courts are civil, and also criminal, in the process of becoming a very effective and good dispute resolution mechanism in Norway. We have courts, especially in the case of the District Court, but this also applies to most of the courts of law and of the Supreme Court, which must be among the fastest in Europe. We also have some of the strictest deadlines. With regard to the average duration of proceedings, in particular in civil and criminal cases in the courts, the time limit is now over. That's good, and there's reason to commend the courts for that. But where there are still challenges with regard to what the Riksrevision is drawing on, we need to continue working to keep the deadlines to a greater extent than you are doing now. The efforts that we have behind us show that this is possible. Finally, I would like to point out what the representative, Mr. Lydvo, had to say about the settlement queue. One of the main reasons people come in late for settlement in Norway is that we've had a queue. When 400 new properties have been established during this ageing period, this has resulted in the fact that we have got the pay queue down to approx. 460 Judges. The dilemma is that as long as you work with queues, you take old things, and then you will always risk things coming up beyond the two-month deadline set. However, on the basis of, inter alia, The National Audit Office's statements and also a wish from the Government that we should have a faster response, we have opened up this year so that those who are actually prepared to get a quick response, and who want to zone, will be able to do so immediately, because we are now getting better capacity in prisons. It will also help to ensure that more people come within the deadline set. We have the ambition – and have had it all along – to have completed the reconciliation queue completely by the autumn of 2009. We hope that in the spring the queue will be in 0-- not in 460, but in 0. This will mean that people will be called to atonement within the deadline. Then we're also hoping that the new rules we've been given on calling for a pardon, and who will stand for it, will help people also meet for a propitiatory settlement, so that we get a criminal code that triggers responses within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e494	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 970]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e510	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of reply following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and five lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e521	The aim of justice policy is to create a safer society. To measure whether we are on the right track in the fight against crime, we use statistics on notifications, clarification and processing time. But the statistics say nothing about how well the police or other actors prevent crime, or how it is to be the victim of a criminal act. A meeting that has made a strong impression on me was the meeting with a young girl who had been subjected to an assault rape in Oslo. Her description of the conditions during the first police hearing, where policemen came and went, and so she had to repeat time and again the details of the cruel assault she had just been subjected to, was strong and depressing. There has been a development in police and emergency services since this happened, but both the government-appointed rape committee and other investigations show that unfortunately this girl is not alone. The victims often experience contact with the police and the judiciary as a new burden. Other numbers can tell us that the risk of becoming a victim of a criminal act is 2 pst. in Sogn and Fjordane and 6 pst. in Oslo. But the numbers say nothing about all the old ladies who are afraid to leave the house in fear of a criminal act hitting them. My grandmother is one of them. She who is an active and strong lady, has now become anxious for sounds, for alien footprints across the lawn and for the development she reads about in the newspaper. This is how many older people are passive in their voluntary prisons. These stories are also important in designing justice policy. So if we just look at the numbers and just deal with what's in the paper, we go blind. There are few events that affect a human being more than being exposed to a criminal act. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government is strongly focused on strengthening the victims' position. But it is also important to prevent new crime. As a result, the criminal health report, which is to be addressed to the spring, is becoming important. At the same time, there is a need to increase penalties in some areas, and the new penal code to be presented soon becomes an important milestone. This requires an overall approach to justice policy, but also that we politicians are exasperating in our reasoning. We have a responsibility to prevent people from feeling more insecure than it actually is. I must be allowed to congratulate the Committee on the orderly and constructive budgetary work. In its general observations, the Committee states that ensuring social security is a welfare issue and a public responsibility. We stress that priority must be given to prevention, both targeted by the players in the justice sector and in society at large. It is therefore very gratifying that more than 260 police councils are established throughout the country after the Stortinge took the police role message two and a half years ago. We are pleased that the reconciliation queue is being removed, and a unanimous committee is pleased that the Government will introduce a readmission guarantee to help the prisoner by release. Furthermore, the Committee welcomes the extension and strengthening of the compensation for victims of violence, and we further say: ‘An important and proper action has been taken in relation to violence in close relations, both with a separate action plan, organisational action that has, among other things, given us our own family violence coordinators in all police districts and a separate plan against trafficking in human beings.’ The Justice Budget is a continuation of the change in the red-green majority started in this field when we took over the autumn of 2005. The appropriations for the justice field will be increased to approximately DKK 1.7 billion next year, and we will see more positive developments in the fight against crime, where the number of reports has fallen and the percentage of information has increased. However, we are also facing major challenges, in particular related to the needs of the police, as evidenced by the ‘Police against 2020’. Much is done during this period. The police have got a raise of over 800 million. kr, excluding compensation for wage and price increases. I note that the Progress Party supports the red-green parties by showing that the growth in the number of police annuals is significant under the current government. The main change in course that has been made is that we have doubled the number of students at Police College in a few years. The record number of 552 students is now being taken up, and the increase in the recording will be noticed as early as next year. As a result, about 52 million are added to the police districts through the etiology. NOK for operation now at the end of the year, and we are increasing the operating budget of the police next year by 216 million. kr. This reinforcement will provide room for more than 300 new posts in the police force. But when police appropriations have increased so strongly in recent years, when the number of police staff has increased by 25pst. in the last ten years, and the feedback is nevertheless on the fact that there is now fewer active service than before, it suggests that we need to have a review of operation and structure. It shows that all the challenges cannot be solved by more money alone. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice has started work on this in close dialogue with the police organisation. Another very important result for this government is the removal of the soot queue and the strengthening of the content of the soot. We have reduced the queue for unconditional prison sentences and are actually well on track to remove the whole queue during 2009. To me, it is still a mystery that the Bondevik II administration could sit still and watch the queue just grow. We have also reduced the use of forward release, as was just introduced by the Bondevik II government. In addition, we have put in place a nationwide pilot project with electronic advocacy, and the first reports are very positive. For example, Jens Egil Holand, head of the Free Health Service in Troms, said: to Troms Folkeblad yesterday that he was very pleased with the pilot project so far, where strict reconciliation provisions are combined with the possibility of those sentences to combine reconciliation with work or education. This is a punishment that works, and I am surprised that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are proposing to cut this measure – the Progress Party is right not in the budget, but in the comments – despite the fact that research from Sweden demonstrates that electronic compensation reduces the relapse rate, and despite the first positive reports from Free Care. I must also mention that this government will finally begin the construction of new Gulating Lawyers, so that we can assign legal premises and good and secure working conditions. Right-wing criticism of our justice policy is often strange to me. It's rare they present new thoughts. It's the government's proposal they recycle, only with the small difference that they always grant a little more, and with the great difference that these are matters that were not proposed and were not prioritised by the Right when they put in government. We're setting up the very first fight units this year in Norwegian prisons and strengthening our efforts to next year. Right plus in its alternate budget. We realize the construction of children's houses. The right is dissatisfied with the fact that it is being built too few. The right stresses the importance of continuing the admission to the Police College at a high level when it is this government that has almost doubled the admission. My question to the Right is, when the Right is so concerned with these matters, which are quite rightly important, why didn't the Party give priority to implementing them in the last period? In my opinion, the party of progress demonstrates a lack of holisticity when looking at the results of their alcohol policy. The lot will cut the alcohol fee by 6 pst. This will significantly increase violence in society, and also probably increase sexual violence. When Finland reduced its alcohol taxes, the crime of violence increased by 29 p.m. Finland has now reversed this policy. The proposals of the Progress Party will in turn require more police, more prison sites and more health services, and it will cost far more than the Progress Party itself has at its disposal. With the budget submitted, the Government has the power to put justice policy in a comprehensive perspective. By working along several fronts at the same time, we prevent crime and secure society. I hope several grandmothers will dry to go out in the street. Then we need an active fight against crime and a strong community. It's our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e572	I have a simple question for the representative Bjørnflaten. A short time ago, the majority decided to ban the purchase of sex in this country. At the same time, the sale of sex is not prohibited. And then my question becomes simple: who is it you've thought that these girls are going to sell sex to in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e579	The Norwegian sex market has changed significantly over the past few years, and we see an increasing incidence of foreign prostitutes in the streetscape. That's the main reason why we now thought it was important to impose a ban on the purchase of sex. There's reason to believe that many of these girls are victims of forced prostitution, victims of human trafficking. The experience shows us that it is very difficult to make any demarcation in this regard, so we thought it was important to introduce bans now. Many people have asked why we don't also criminalize selling sex. The reason for that is precisely what I pointed out, that many of these are already victims, they are victims of forced prostitution, they are victims of trafficking in human beings, they are victims of poverty, they are victims of addiction, and therefore we believe that it is not right to impose an even greater burden on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e586	The representative Bjørnfacen was inside the police several times in his post. But I want to challenge her as follows: In the summer of 2007, 120 years of police work disappeared as a result of new working time regulations, without any action or strategy to compensate for them. From the new year 2009, the new working time regulations for police lawyers are coming, and it has been suggested that dozens of annual works will disappear as a result. How does the 2009 budget take account of this collection of prosecution capacity in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e593	At the time of the introduction of working time regulations, there was also a background that included: The Joint Police Association was among the most keen to get the working time arrangements in place, because it was thought that there was a need for the police to have a more regulated working time. I also see that the working time regulations have produced good results in many places where you used to have a backup guard and where you now have an active lucky day service. I do not agree with the representative when she says that we have not taken this into account. As I was in my post, at the end of the year we have strengthened the operating budget, and we are further strengthening the operating budget for the police, which means that it is possible to employ 300 more people. I'm referring to the fact that the police lawyers' union, PEL, has also gone a long way in supporting the current government in terms of our description of reality, and supporting the current government in the work it is doing to strengthen the police. I am very pleased that there is now a dialogue between the minister and the organisations about, among other things. the working time arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e602	The chairperson of the Committee was in charge of the electronic redress system, and praised it on the basis of the few results already seen. So I would essentially ask: can it be expected in a further development of this that what was presented in the preliminary draft consultation on this, namely that electronic compensation could also be used in custody cases, is something government parties now want to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e607	As the representative of the Syversen was in the Chamber, it is a test procedure for the time being. And even if the first results so far are positive, it is also important that we evaluate the scheme before we come back to how it might be expanded and how it should be used. But I assume that if the results are as positive as they have been up to now, we will also consider it in relation to custody. Then I would also like to say that we are going to have a debate in the spring on the criminal welfare report, where the very alternative to compensation is becoming important, and where this is one of the important means of preventing relapses and contributing to a good return to society for the defendant and the sentenced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e615	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e618	Four years ago, it was the first budget debate for this Judicial Committee. If I don't remember correctly, there was a slight nervousness – you can use the term – ‘thing’ here that wondered how to do this, and how to fix it – just the same way that the undersigned stood here eight years ago together with the then opposition politician Storberget. So for some of us, the learning curve has been longer than for others. What is at least a fact is that the Judicial Committee has worked well together, as the chairman of the committee also pointed out, and basically we agree on it all, mostly in the big picture. But then I also thought, since I've had the pleasure of sitting on the Justice Committee for eight years, that I had to look at what it was like before. So I've gone back and read the debates for the autumn of 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. If there's anyone who's wondering what we talked about then, I'll give you a brief feedback on that. We were talking about a lack of police. Is that surprising? Is it new today? No, no, no. We talked about an increase in crime. Is it new today? No, no, no. We were talking about solitude, the contents of the solitude and the solitude queue. Are we talking about this today? Yes, we do. We talked about quick reaction in 2001. And we're still going to do that. We talked about a lack of operational resources at the Norwegian police station. Do we still do that? Is there anyone who recognizes it? Yeah, probably most of them. And we talked about, among other things, violence in close relationships, as we do today. Then I could possibly have concluded that we have not come any further, but I assume that some people would say that this is a direct mistake. The fact is, however, that we are discussing the same things, and the question is, have we solved some of the major problems and challenges we have in the justice sector? I don't think so. It's possible we've done something with them. It's possible we've come further in relation to DNA. It is possible that we have come further in relation to violence in close relationships. It is possible that we have gone further in looking at the challenges that the Norwegian police have seen together. It is possible that we have come closer to looking at the interaction between the different aspects of the justice sector. But with respect to reporting, we haven't solved the problems. So I'm assuming that those who stand here in four years might be discussing the exact same things. And that's not necessarily wrong, but it probably shows on the contrary that there are no simple solutions. There are no shortcuts here. There is only one way to solve this, and it is through a long and targeted work where you can focus on what should be – and is – the most important thing. It will, of course, depend on where you stand politically. But for my part, it was quite interesting and also a little bit fun looking back at this, because it was a little alarm clock relative to: what are we going to do today? What are we discussing today? Yes, we are discussing the same thing as we did here in the autumn of 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. So if I were to move a little further, I've also taken the liberty of looking at what the Right Representatives did in the last period. When I look at what the Right Representatives did in the last period compared to today, I have to ask myself a question: if today's Justice Profile for the Right is correct, then I would argue that those who sat here for the Right in the last period did a bad job. What is at least clear is that today's Right-wing representatives have a significantly higher focus on the justice sector, on combating crime than they had in the last period. It may have a natural explanation. It is possible that it is as simple as you put in government, and therefore had some leadership/restrictions for what you could, and what you couldn't. But I might have left the right answer to that myself. But with respect to reporting, I think that right today is doing a good job, challenging things that are important. I had, with respect to reporting, liked to see an equally active Right in the previous period, and that should have been possible. The right had even – if I don't remember completely wrong – the Minister of Finance. They had a party leader who was in government. So when the story was written, the possibilities were present, but for different reasons, what could have been done did not happen. But I'll leave that, as I'm done with that part of the history description. Another thing that I think is worth taking with me is an interview on the News Channel with then Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum at the PF National Meeting at Røros. In view of the political crisis that has been discussed now, he said: I experienced something similar when I was Minister of Justice. I tried to solve it, but it was very difficult. My proposal for what I had to do to help finance some challenges was to do two unpopular things. I put on the part of free legal aid, and I doubled the fines. That was the tool I had, and the opportunity I had to solve the things I was set to solve. Again, I perceive that the then Minister of Justice – and he is still here – is an up-and-coming and honest person who is not afraid to tell me about how he sees things, and he should have respect and respect for that. But I also felt that he was very open and direct in relation to the fact that he ended up in a situation where he had to choose a poor solution to move on. But he chose to do it because one was more important than the other. Both I and the then big-time representative Knut Storberget think I criticized him a bit for both, but he did because he thought it was the solution he had there and then. He must have respect and honor for that. If we go a little further and look at what's happening today, I've taken that freedom and looked a little bit in various newspapers. The online newspaper has an article on November 11th this year, where Erling Grimstad is interviewed. He says the police have completely lost control of financial crime. He says we have mafia-like conditions here in the country. He says, ‘– Police have completely lost control of financial crime. This fact has a very negative impact on society. I don't want this at all." So, of course, you could say that Grimstad is wrong. Then you can look at the Evening Post on 29 October this year, which has a front page where it says that 410 posts in the police are unoccupied. It is also referred to as ‘on weekend, four officers of 250,000 people’. It is possible that this is a greater challenge than the then Minister of Justice Dørum had. But at least it's a challenge that I can't see that the red-green government has come up with a solution – so far. Another case – Sunnmørsposten 21 October: ‘Freit for drug sales’. Head of the Sunnmøre Police District Narcotics Department, Sinde Ryssevik, reported: ‘The seizures we make are almost random. Unfortunately, it is free for heavier substances on Sunnmare today, says Ryssevik. The reason is simply that the police at Sunnmøre are standing completely without the opportunity to talk to informants." So what you're doing now is giving up on crime. Furthermore, it is stated in the Official Journal of Drammen on 23 October: ‘The police officer should actually clarify drug crime. Instead, he must drive the police patrol in the square." Prioritisation? Yes, possible. It's possible that it's red-green priority. But if that's a good priority, I reserve the right to be highly doubtful about. In the October 26th issue of the journal of Rome, it says: ‘Did not have time for 29 calls.’ And on: «Two police patrols and a total of four police officers. It was the police crew on Rome's rich night to Saturday." Then you've taken out a print from the police log, where you briefly referred to the reality of Rome that night. There were two cases of pro-mille driving that were reported, with nothing to do with it. There were three fights with which nothing was done, and there was also theft with which nothing was done. If that's what you're talking about in the budget position, that the local police are important, and that people feel that you can get support and response when you need it, yes, then we have a challenge, and unfortunately it's not small. On Friday 28 November, Dagbladet had a case where the police warned against staying at Karl Johan and Grünerløkka to avoid ransack. Is it so to understand that parts of the capital are now becoming an exceptional zone because ordinary citizens cannot go there with the danger of being exposed to crime? In that case, crime has won, and the law-abiding citizens have lost. It's a situation that we can't have. Let me finish this part by pointing out a press release from the National Audit Office in relation to financial crime. They issued a press release on 6 November, including the following: says: ‘Since book-keeping and business controls are key instruments in the work of these agencies against economic crime, the decline in supervision and controls is not in line with the assumptions for increased efforts in this area,’ says Jørgen Kosmo.’ In other words, it's not that it's only in relation to the visible crime that the red-green government fails – but it's also that in central fields, as I see it, both the Council of State and the parties seem to be engaged in fighting, namely financial crime, they don't deliver. Finally, in the autumn of 2004, the current member of the Judicial Committee, Gunn Karin Gjul, said about the budget: ‘The working party takes the situation in the police seriously This problem is a combination of structure and tight budgets. [[...]] In order to maintain good policing and to ensure good staffing both during the evening and during the weekend, the individual Länsmannskontoret and the individual police station need more money for operations and unoccupied positions... It is our duty to say from and ensure that the safety of ordinary people is not impaired." So now I've briefly explained some of the things that various media have shown. I actually think the representative Gunn Karin Gjul's description from the autumn of 2004 can actually be used as well today. So I would say that even though the red-green government has increased the budgets – they have, of course, done so, something else would have been spectacular, not least in terms of wage and price increases and other challenges, and the profile you have had – I think it is time to promote a new slogan, at least on our behalf. It should probably be: Out with Knut. It is possible that it is inappropriate, but I think we need, through the election to next year, to get a new course. So a little bit about what the Progress Party itself is doing. Some people may have been waiting for it too, but I expect it to be quite familiar. For our part, I hope, and we have an ambition, that we will hold on to the profile we've had at least over the last eight years, with a greater commitment to the Norwegian police. We believe that the police are among the best in prevention, and are one of the best tools in fighting crime. So we need more operational resources for the Norwegian police. We need today, since it's claimed and it's a fact that we lack police-trained people, to hire more civilians. The government does, but we still think you have more to go on. So we're going to claim that we need an investment budget. When times are tight and you're struggling with your budgets, you have to put some things aside because you can't afford everything. Then we think that we should consider setting up a scheme, as well as what we had before, by getting a central funding of some of the investments to address the challenges we actually have, and recognizing that this is the case. Then it's also that a budget is made up of large items and smaller items. For the Progress Party, it has been important to focus on the job they volunteer. We've recorded that this government has also said something about, and that it's important to have them in all parts of society. Of course, we support that. Another matter that has been on the map now, and with which the government has done a job, concerns the landslide judges. The Justice Committee has met them. We've taken on some of the challenges they have, but we still believe that we have a job to do and a piece to go to get to a proper level. The same applies to the situation with regard to the recruitment of judges, which we consider worrying from our point of view. Furthermore, before I go down, I will include our suggestions in the vote. We have also this time chosen to make some proposals that we had of course hoped the Government would be in. One of them relates to the interaction between criminal justice and psychiatry, child protection and the education sector. It is that when children are affected by this, you have to work across the board. Just as I realized that the Council of State commented on it in the previous case, so a budget alone does not solve a problem, especially since you do not have an exclusive right to it. Then you have to solve it together. Research is also a key to knowledge. The Right Party and the Advance Party have a proposal that we would like to see the majority join, but it has chosen not to do. And, not least, we clearly believe that it is now time to look at the justice sector together and get an analysis of what is needed within the different parts of it, an overall plan. It'll also give you better assumptions to be able to have a proper budgeting, we'll claim. In order not to forget to mention one of the things we are often accused of talking about, namely, punishment, I would say that we want the Government to present a case that deals with the level of punishment in this country, so that we can compare it a little bit with the level of punishment in other Nordic countries. Now the state council is about to present the penal code to us, and then we'll see what kind of references he has. So the last point: it's still so that a lot of things with a known perpetrator are settled. That's what we think we're looking at. I perceive that the Riksadvokat is critical of it. I understand that the Council of State has clear opinions on how it should be, but there we still have a job to do. Finally, I would like to address our proposals, and at the same time say that the Progress Party will support proposal No. 22, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e711	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e716	I am pleased that, in the Committee's comments, the Progress Party emphasises both the importance of combating economic crime and not least the importance of the role of the tax haven in this work. I refer you to a joint comitology, which says: ‘The Committee further points out that establishments such as the tax offence, the customs duty rate and the credit supervision are doing a very important job in detecting crime. The Committee welcomes the fact that the work of tax measures against financial crime has been strengthened in recent years. The Committee would stress the importance of maintaining sufficient resources for these departments to continue this important work.» Then I find it strange that the Progress Party in the Financial Committee, on the other hand, is doing the opposite of what the Advance Party in the Judicial Committee wants, namely cutting the customs and tax system and the credit supervision. So my question to the representative is: who are we going to believe in, the representative of Ellingsen who wants to fight financial crime, or the representative of Leirstein in the Finance Committee, who wants to cut these agencies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e728	This actually reminds me of a question I got last year, but I will of course answer in the same way I did last year. We believe, of course, that it is possible to streamline public agencies as well. I think the question is timely, not least when I register that also the government parties now believe that we should streamline the Norwegian police by merging operating centres, among others. That they are concerned that we are in favour of a possible efficiency of the customs tariff, the tax rate, etc., they must be, but at the same time they want to go in for it in the case of Norwegian police. What's most worrying, I guess depends on where you stand politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e735	It is not a hidden policy that the Progress Party will have a liberal alcohol policy. The donation and sale of alcoholic goods shall be lawful almost 24 hours a day. A City Council in Oslo from the Progress Party has said that the grant should be easy to obtain. He has also said that it should be easy to lose. The last part we doubt, but anyway, it's going to be easy to get. Then we see that the police say: ‘Things indicate that the Nordics and the high availability of alcohol are a poor combination. In relation to times of gift, one should go back in time rather than in time in the future.’ Then you refer to a fake plan in Oslo, which, among other things, The party of progress came forward. It was slaughtered by the Oslo police, among others. based on what they say. Then my question to the Progress Party is: how can it be combined to strengthen the police and at the same time cut 670 million? Do the taxes on alcohol and have a liberal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e749	This I think I also answered last year, but I'm going to do it again, of course. I perceive that the question asked by the representative Chaudhry is directly immoral, since it comes from a person who belongs to one of the parties that constitutes the majority government. Can the representative, Mr Chaudhry, refer later today to one tightening of the alcohol legislation proposed by this government? Not a single proposal has been made. Then you come and put your index finger on us! At least we have been consistent with our policies, as opposed to, among other things. SV. Another thing: I recently read that the oil fund has invested NOK 10.5 billion in various companies, such as the United Kingdom. produces alcohol. It is possible that it is more morally correct than having a policy that has a substance, and where one is consistent, which I perceive is that the representative Chaudhry to those degrees is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e758	There are two cuts in the draft budget of the Progress Party that I would like to ask questions about. One goes on a little bit of the last answer, which is a cut in the alcohol charge of 670 million. kr. There are strong indications that such a cut leads to an increase in the violence situation in large and small cities. What is the readiness of the Progress Party in the event that the indications strike? The next question is integration, with a cut of 971 million. kr. We know that there is an extreme situation in a number of countries in Africa, where there can suddenly be a violent drag in the influx of refugees to Norway – stronger than the one we have today. Does the Progress Party see a possible rapid decline in the number of refugees in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e767	Let me take the first one, which concerns the alcohol charge. Then I actually challenge the representative Samuelsen to see a little wider about this. It is quite correct that when the alcohol tax was lowered in Finland, there were challenges in relation to increased violence. If you go to Denmark, which has a higher alcohol consumption than we have and greater than in Finland, they have a significantly less violent problem than we do. So I think you should be very careful to draw conclusions. It may depend on whether the Norwegian lightning is more like the Finnish than the Danish, but it gets other answers. With regard to migration, integration and the challenges in this way, it is no surprise to the representative Samuelsen that the Progress Party will seek to help people wherever they live as closely as possible. We've never been followers of taking people here first, partly integrating them, and then sending them back. We think that's worse for all stakeholders, and we think it's a worse and more expensive solution than helping people locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e776	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e779	This seems to be a kind of history class, where everyone is going to confess what you've done before, and, finally, what you're going to do in the future. But it is also possible to say to the chairman of the committee that this government did not come to completely empty drawers and lockers in the department either. Also, the government that sits today brought with it leaders and things that had a past here in the Storting before you took over. Both children's houses, police councils, etc. are examples of cases where there was a basis and where efforts have been made to meet both initiatives and leaders from the Storting. There is reason to question the Government's understanding of the everyday life of species for the Norwegian police. Governments and red-green representatives are banging around with many numbers and statistics, but that seem to impress few other than themselves. And it's worth remembering that the police agencies actually said that the 2009 police budget proposal is disastrous. People today experience too often that the police don't stretch to. No matter how close you live to a police station or a janitor’s office, there is no guarantee that the police can come. And if it's the gentleman in the neighbouring municipality many miles away who's been guarding, there'll be questions as to whether the incident is so serious that it can be defended. Few crews and large guard districts in practice mean that the threshold for what you move out for is getting higher. We hear about communities that are plagued by drunkards who are not being taken, and burglaries that have to wait until the weekend. People's fear doesn't count that much. A comparison of watch lists in 2008 and 1998, carried out by the Joint Police Association, suggests a marked decrease in operational personnel, in East Finland in fact more than half a half. The police director wouldn't comment on the matter. More interesting is the fact that the Minister of Justice is thinking about the figures that have emerged. And even more interesting is whether the Council of State believes the Staff Committee has caught up with the real challenges in Police Norway, or whether he will follow his party colleague Thomas Breen, and consider the proposal for a police study that plies deeper into the societal needs and challenges that must form the basis for dimensioning the police force of the future and determining future skills requirements. Statistics can be used for so many purposes, but the absence of visible police in public space cannot be explained out. With the last draft budget in the period, it is clear that the Minister of Justice’s announced ‘year of police’ never came. Such a lifting breach cannot be weighed out, even by record high levels of recording at the Police College. The problem is that today's police crisis is not solved by police officers who have completed their training in three years' time. Then, the second must be more and more money for operation, so that police officers can employ civilians in 2009 and hold all seniors who are motivated to continue, if conditions are to be made right. On the right, the proposed 2009 police budget does not intend to resolve the policy crisis. The Chief of Police in Bergen is quite clear that the operating framework in 2009 will mean fewer employees. To me, making an additional allocation in the autumn to compensate for the higher costs of violence alarms and new biometric passports, as a contribution to the strengthening of police operations in 2009, is a rather poor diet. Liability for the police not to function properly cannot be placed at the opposition. That's what the government has to do after three years of power. Compared to his government colleagues, Knut Storberget may have won the media battle. Worse for the police is that he's lost the budget fight. Neither in the budget nor in the new age can there be any clear strategy to get out of today's police crisis. Faced with poor police operating budgets, the Minister of Justice has referred to statistics that reduce crime. But statistics are history, and the bad budget time for the police is now. The picture in 2008 is somewhat different from that of the Council of State statistics: fewer and fewer prisons are reported from Hordaland. The prosecutor does not conceal that this is due to lack of capacity. Drug and public order disorders are rarely reported and depend on police activity. It is not surprising that the percentage of information goes down when the police are pressed for time and people. Nor is it surprising that the police are getting fewer when the reporters learn that the police have no resources to investigate. And when not-known perpetrators are taken, even when the reporters put the evidence on the table, respect for the law breaks down when crime does not have consequences. During the summer, the report of the crew project made clear recommendations to reinforce police efforts to keep track of serious organised crime, while at the same time ensuring the close police role and prevention. The introduction of new police working time regulations in 2007 lost the 120-year work unit overnight. For the new year, new working time rules are introduced for law-enforcement lawyers, and new tens of years of work are exhausted – without mentioning this at all in the budget. One of the standard answers of the Council of State when challenged about police resources is the DNA reform. What the Council of State overlooks is that the success of the DNA reform stands and falls with the fact that the police actually have the resources to move out and secure the tracks, to investigate and have police lawyers to ensure that the cases are closed. With a well-managed police force, DNA reform can be an effective weapon in the fight against crime. With an understaffed police, the reform can be a great burden, because there are expectations of a revolution in the percentage of disclosure. The draft budget follows up the crew report at one point: increased admission to the Police College, with full count from 2012. In addition, the government is without strong grip, and senior policy is left to the police districts. In the case of civil posts, it is almost a joke that 20 posts will be allocated in 2009 to 27 police districts. The government should have grasped the report's recommendation on 1000 new civil works with much greater determination. It is a fact that there is a significant manning gain in liberating policemen from e.g. watches and transport missions. We know that Oslo District Court alone can seize dozens of police officers. In its alternative budget, the right has strengthened the police by 220 million. to provide operational budgets for the operation of the department, which will both provide seniors and provide 160 new civilian posts until next year. In a pressured manning and resource situation, police are forced into tough priorities. Understandably, the most serious crime must go ahead of the less serious one, and lastly prevention. The police are sorry, but they say they have no choice. Right-wing fears the long-term consequences of a police officer who is away from the prevention tasks. Government parties point to a large number of police councils as proof of the fact that prevention is taking place. But we're afraid the police are going to be a sleep cushion. Meetings between police and local authorities can never replace police outreach activities in schools, youth settings, presence in traffic and visibility in places — at all times of the day — where many people travel. The police council itself does not guarantee that prevention takes place in practice. Experience with SLT has shown us that many municipalities say they are doing it, but there is a long way between the municipalities that are really doing a good SLT work. The effects of the financial crisis now appear to be striking Norway with great force. Many are affected by bankruptcies, lay-offs and redundancies, and the risk of the legal limits being challenged. At such times, it is so important that the police have the ability to enforce the law. The community cannot live by the fact that economic crime is not being persecuted. The budget proposes increased appropriations to combat financial crime, but not enough, in the opinion of the Right. Erling Grimstad, former First State Attorney and Vice-Chairman of Ecokrim, now warns against what he feels is a deprioritising of matters of financial crime. He fears that Norway is losing the fight against mafia activities because the police are unable, willing or resourced to investigate financial crime. It should worry an overall government when the police only have the capacity to investigate a fraction of the tax and social security issues. Substantial resources are being neglected within the Community and welfare systems are being exploited to the greatest extent. The right is concerned with cultivating the fruitful interaction between public and private and non-profit institutions that make valuable contributions to the rehabilitation and re-establishment of prisoners after settlement. Others offer activities to the family and children of prisoners, and others re-enter as interlocutors and support for insults in criminal matters. This is a scheme Right will make nationwide from 2009. Preventing better, reacting faster, clarifying more, and rehabilitating better are the red-green mantra. In reality, we are witnessing today a development in which we see that prevention is threatened, the response time in the police is increasing, the clearance rate can be discussed, but at least it is going down in some police districts, and the effort for rehabilitation in relation to the goals that have been set is not where it should be. The budget for justice is unbalanced, and it affects both the police and the citizens. In Norway, we have a tradition of hard work, and an overall opposition has challenged the Government to do so in order to ensure a close and visible police force and to create secure communities, whether in the lower part of the Grünerleukka or on Skjervøy, which is now being shaken by drug problems involving 13-year-olds. On the right, the importance of police prevention in order to stop drug use and trafficking will be emphasised. Right does not want a development in which the municipalities feel compelled to engage weights in order for citizens to move safely outside. The right has provided a basis for resolving the policy crisis in its alternative budget. Finally, I would like to refer to the vote and address the proposals that the Right has there. I would also like to signal that we will support proposal No. 22, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e835	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e840	From the representative of Aspaker we have once again received a description of the Norwegian police, which I think is coal black. I have to say a little in agreement with the question of the Ellings of the Advance Party over the sudden turnaround of the Right – from position to opposition – in relation to the focus on police matters. It has even gone so far that it is unclear what you think about the importance of the duty of peace in order to resolve the crisis. I think this is in quite stark contrast to what the head of the National Police Association said at the national meeting a few weeks ago: everything is not black. After all, it's better now than before. I believe that the reality description of the head of this union, who has 95 pst. by the police lawyers and most police officers in their fold, is wrong, and that the Right is correct, since there is such a contrast between their description of reality and the description of the reality of the PEL, the Association of Politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e847	This is an interesting question. I don't know who's going to have a monopoly on the truth, because I think the truth is more nuanced than the government parties admit. I hear you push in front of those who fit into the picture of the reality of Police Norway that is created by the government parties. The chief of police in Bergen says he gets an operating budget in 2009 which means that he cannot be employed in all the positions. When the police around say that they do not get the watch lists to go up, that they do not manage to provide the service to the audience they want, this is taken seriously. We're seeing a police department in the process of locating. We want bigger police budgets, and over the years we have shown that we want to follow up the police. The right has been very clear that it is not the duty of peace that we challenge, but we challenge the government parties in this room to give the police the operating budgets they need to fulfil the role of the police and also to take care of the organized serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e856	It was very interesting that the representative Aspaker jumped nicely and elegantly over the revision that the representative Ellingen presented here regarding the four years of right-wing power. The second image, the second component, over which the right jumps very nicely, is prevention. This government has granted SEK 28 billion in free money to the municipalities. Nevertheless, it is such that the preventive, non-statutory services are cut in Right-Handled municipalities. On the other hand, Right wants more money for the police to fight crime that is precisely the result of the absence of prevention measures. Do representatives of Aspaker see a connection here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e861	It was really good that I got this challenge, because it gives me an opportunity to say that there is no evidence that the Right-Communities cut in terms of prevention. I have a broad dialogue with the local politicians of the Right, and I know that they are putting on prevention. I know they're busy with the SLT, I know they're busy with the police council. I know that the Right Budget is a budget for home, home and work security, and it is also a budget that builds up under the fact that the municipality sector in Norway is going to be able to do its part of the job. Then I would like to say that in the government parties perhaps you should notice that it is actually now in a good part of Right-Handled municipalities that action is taken in terms of donation times etc. precisely to see if this can help to dampen the muzzles, and as a input to improve prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e868	The right-hand side of the board proposes, in a commendable way, to increase the police's appropriations by 220 million. kr. I assume that it is financed by, among other things, cut-off in the reception of asylum by 700 million. kr. At the same time, the Right proposes to increase the number of quota refugees by 500 and increase the appropriations allocated to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the neighbourhood of the refugees. Knowing that we have problems, serious challenges, in Chad, Darfur and at all in Sudan, in Somalia, in Congo – are the appropriations proposed by the Right to meet the refugees in their neighbourhoods sufficient in relation to the great movements of the masses that we have there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e875	We base our draft budget on the discussions that have taken place here in Stortinget on what is expected in the case of asylum seekers and inflows into Norway next year. I believe that we have a good and solid arrangement for assistance to the areas in which the representative Samuelsen was involved. There must be no conflict at all between investing in the police and the security of homes, homes and jobs in Norway and the fact that we should both integrate, live and assume obligations towards people in distress in other countries. I think it's going to be a pretty sought out design of a conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e880	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e883	Security is a well-being. Security is a prerequisite for a functioning democracy. It is also the basis for personal and human development. It's a priority task for the SV and the Government to make society safe. Security is created both with preventive work and with close and strong police force. In order to create security in society, we must start early — yes, already in kindergartens and in schools. SV and the red-green government have worked hard to get full babysitting in the country. We're almost in the goal. Only a few – and most of them civilised – municipalities are left. Full childcare means that the socialisation process begins early and in educational and safe settings. Children with a minority background are also given the opportunity to learn Norwegian at an early age. They don't bother with the language when they start school. Mestring characterizes the everyday life of the children. It gives rest in school everyday, which in turn makes the school interesting and rewarding for children. Such a school creates good and safe citizens. This government has made teaching materials in high school free of charge. It gives young people greater opportunities to complete high school. We know that over 40 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, primary school is the highest level of completed education, almost none have higher education. Free school and increased bets on so-called drop-outs further increase the chances of young people betting on higher education and becoming a resource for the family and society. Involved young people are safe young people. From 2005 to 2009, we have increased the local government budget by over 28 billion kroner. This money has, among other things: to good prevention objectives aimed at children and young people, such as recreational clubs and unorganised sports. I believe this is the best policy to keep young people away from drugs, crime and other negative, undesirable behaviour – in other words prevention! Here strands the opposition. Despite good conditions, kutter civilised municipalities, such as Oslo, in unregulated good leisure activities for children and young people and in low-threshold services for vulnerable groups. Prevention is also not doing the wrong things. In that case, there is a restrictive policy on alcohol and spirits. Here, the alcohol policy of the Progress Party is a good example of doing the wrong things. Also in 2009, the Advance Party will reduce the alcohol tax by DKK 670 million. Increased access to alcohol means increased intake. And we know what increased consumption of alcohol means. It means greater burdens for individuals, for their associations, for our health care and in this context, given the general calm and order and the need for order in our streets. In Oslo, the City Council, resigned from the Right Party and the Advance Party, proposed a roster that was regularly slaughtered by the Oslo Police in the summer. The Visepolitimester in Oslo said: ‘Things indicate that the Nordics and the high availability of alcohol are a poor combination. You should go back in time in relation to times of gift.’ He went on to say: ‘We have said many times that we are using a disproportionate proportion of the uniformed resources overnight for Saturday and Sunday. Our people save lives every weekend. Should we have even more places with the same challenges as in the center, it goes against what we want to spend the resources on. In addition, this will have negative consequences for the living environment.’ It's a cross of thought that the same parties that are yelling about the manning crisis in the police are running a policy that increases the need for the police and that the police themselves think is not good. Another example is that the Progress Party reduces the credit supervision appropriations by 12.3 million. kr. The rate of duty and charge will be cut by 150 million. kr. Wouldn't this mean less control of crime? Does this not mean increased expenditure for the same police as they want to strengthen? In order to create security, an effective close-up police force is needed. The government has increased the police budget each year, with a total of DKK 2 billion from 2006 to 2009. The police have had a real increase of 365 million. kr in 2008. This increase continues in 2009. We have taken the situation in the police, which is also described in the crew report ‘Police against 2020’, seriously. That is why we have increased the number of police students every year since we took over government responsibility. Next year we're going to record 552 students. This is high. The Minister of Justice has said that 150 experienced policemen have postponed their retirement. This is an important group of people, who have unique competences that the police need. The Oslo police are doing a very good job and get an increase in their budget. I am pleased that there will be two new police posts in Oslo next year. I hope one of them comes to the Furuse. The neighbourhoods have long wanted that. One of our biggest contributions to the Oslo police is that we have reduced the pay queues, from about 3,000 judges in 2005 to 460 judges now. This means that the police don't spend much money on, among other things. to pick up and bring custody prisoners to and from the courts. All the police districts will enjoy it, but Oslo will get the best out of it. The DNA registry will be strengthened next year. It is a centrally funded reform that will relieve the budget of the police districts. In addition, experience from abroad shows that several offenders are being taken with the use of DNA technology. This will once again relieve the police budgets. The streets of Oslo shall be safe for all who travel in Oslo. I very much appreciate the fact that the police give good advice to everyone who lives in Oslo, such as showing caution, being careful, going with friends, not taking pirate drozers, etc. But I don't like the police counseling people to travel in some places in Oslo. The last advice was not to go in the lower part of Karl Johan's street – properly in an intoxicated state. But I believe that every single millimeter of Oslo's public space should be available to anyone who lives in Oslo, and has clean flour in the bag. It will be a democratic problem if the police ask us not to travel in certain places. The Oslo people have demands for security, and it's to be delivered. For the SV and the Government, it is important to have effective and targeted criminal care. The government has provided a criminal health message with a main focus on effective punishment. We want the prisoners to use the reconciliation time to prepare to come back to society as good people. We therefore want training in all prisons of the country. In addition, prisoners shall have access to the libraries. One of the instruments proposed by the Government is to introduce a return guarantee. Central elements of a return guarantee will be to ensure post-release residence, treatment for addicts, training/training opportunities, financial advice and assistance on debt problems and work. On behalf of Oslo's population, especially children and young people, I'm very happy that a children's home is coming in Oslo next year. This will provide a more comprehensive and coordinated offer to children who have been subjected to abuse. In 2007 a children's home was established in Bergen and Hamar. In 2008, children's homes are established in Kristiansand and Trondheim. In the short term I have left, I want to talk about a very important topic, namely the safety of women. I am very pleased that proposals on the legalisation of the crisis centre offer – both for women and men – have now been put to the hearing. There's a lot left to give women the help they need, but we're on the right track. In addition, I am pleased that Alternatives to Violence are strengthened in the budget, in order to be nationwide. Again, the prevention of violence is the best aid our women can get. I would also like to add that we now have family violence coordinators in all the police districts of the country. On the SV side, these are important measures to ensure the safety of women. We are proud of it, but we will continue the fight to secure women and everyone in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e930	It is tempting to start by saying: Hallelujah – all crises are solved, the representative Chaudhry has spoken! But that's not what I'm going to do -- I'm going to challenge Chaudhry on something completely different. A short time ago, the representative Chaudhry and I took part in a debate in Ila prison and discussed custody. It was in a sentence where I realized that the representative Chaudhry was very critical of the use of custody. In the budget setting, the Progress Party and the Right have pointed out that there are some challenges around it, not least phasing out after completed reconciliation, when returning to society. I can't see that the representative, Chaudhry, has in any way signaled where he is in relation to these challenges. And then my question becomes: is it that the representative Chaudhry uses his role as a politician and presents a message depending on where he is? Is he a reindeer SV when only SV is present, or does he take over that he is also part of a majority school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e936	I also remember something from that debate: an inmate asked Ellingsen what people could fear if the Progress Party came to power after the election, and the answer from the representative Ellingsen, if I remember correctly, was that all parties agree on the main lines of Norwegian criminal policy. My reply was that then there is nothing to fear, then there is no need to change the government, because we deliver what the Progress Party agrees with. So it's that our message is the same wherever we are. We've always been critical of custody. We think it's punishing someone for what you haven't done. We think that's wrong. The most important thing now, though, is to give all the people who are inside, the offers that come in the criminal services bulletin, so that they come out as better people. That is our response to those who are in prison and to the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e943	The representative, Chaudhry, is concerned with prevention, and that's good, but then I want the representative to explain how it can be that in three years with more money for distribution than any other government has had, in fact, there is a shortage of child protection places, a shortage of places in juvenile psychiatry – how it may be that the scale of bullying is increasing, and that the police have to cut off prevention. And I'd like an answer that concerns a little bit more than Oslo, but he can also take a little bit of Oslo, given that Oslo is the municipality that suffers the most from the conversion of the municipal economy that this government has done. And when we first mentioned it, I would also like to have an answer with regard to crisis centres, which he was concerned about: this should then be included in the framework grant, which was opposed to the previous period, because one feared that a number of offers would then be cancelled because of the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e950	There were so many questions that I might have needed half an hour to answer them all. I'll just pick a couple. First, to the drug sector. The government has spent DKK 3 billion in the budget on the escalating plan. It will mean a lot to the drug sector and all those who need help in the coming year. I said in my main post that we have already delivered 28 billion kroner in free money to the municipalities. At that time it is the responsibility of the municipalities to deliver low-threshold services to, among other things. addicted to sleep. And there it is, in fact, that the representative's own colleagues in Oslo kutter in everything of low-threshold offers, among other things. To the Blue Cross, among others to the Job project. My advice to him is then that he goes back and reminds his own colleagues that there have been 28 billion kroner and that they have to increase the low-threshold offer to people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e959	I noticed that the representative Chaudhry had some advice for the Oslo police, among others. the fact that people should not be warned against staying at certain places in the Oslo centre at certain times of the day on a police professional basis. Now, there's probably a reason these places are so insecure that the police find it necessary to warn people against being there at certain times of the day, for example. the lack of resources to have patrolling police in the areas concerned. So I'd like to confirm that it's actually the way the representative Chaudhry warns the police against giving the advice on a police professional basis that the police themselves think is necessary to prevent crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e966	We're both representatives from Oslo. It's our city. Security in our city is also our responsibility. I said in my speech that the police should give police professional advice, for example. to go together, to be careful, not to take a pirate dross, etc. But I mean there goes the limit. We cannot accept in our city that the police say you should not stay there and there. It will be a democratic problem in our society. I believe that everyone who has clean flour in the bag is entitled to travel in Oslo City at all times of the day where they wish, and then it is our responsibility, both the politicians and the police, to ensure that the city is safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e976	Here's the script for Chaudhry. I think I'm going to have to add that to it. In any case, there may be some nuances between a post from SV and a post from the Christian People's Party, although I have to say, when I read the position of the Judicial Committee – and unfortunately we are not present in that committee, at least not for a year – that the joint comments actually agree on a great deal of basic in Norwegian justice policy. And that might be reason for including in a debate where the inequalities that are cultivated are usually. In fact, we are talking here about the central area of the state: the security and legal security of citizens, which the budget of the Justice Committee will help to ensure that this is done properly. And there's been a fight about the description of reality this fall -- whether it's a safe society we have, or if you're almost on the verge of a kind of breakdown. You have to be careful in these hours of work, and be careful with what you say, but it's clear that the kinds of actions you seem to see among the police have focused on both what you get, and, maybe even more, what you don't get. Then there has been a further focus on the means to ensure that you have sufficient resources to enable the police to function properly. When this harvest is evaluated, I'm not so sure if the union will be overjoyed with the result, but it's going to be a task for themselves. In any case, I often think it – in the justice debate that we have here now, and in others – is fast becoming a numerical debate. It's quite right that the majority also writes in the setting, that it is granted more than ever. At the same time, it is equally true that costs are higher than ever, and challenges are greater than ever. I just want to take an example from Bergen. I received an e-mail a few days ago from someone who has applied for Bergen. Everything was basically clapped and clear that he could go from the police high school to the employment that awaited him in the Bergen police district. But the answer is that no one is hired anymore in that district today. and probably not in the foreseeable future either, because there are no wages for it. Then you could say that they have more money than ever, but the result for the people of Bergen is that there are less operative police than in many, many years. It also has to make a certain impression on the red-green and state councils, I think. So that's not just the question of money allocations. There have also been quite considerable structural changes within the police, for example: in the case of working time arrangements. I don't think there's any doubt that it also contributes – although it's right, from the police point of view – to the fact that the police get less and become less operative as a result of these regulations, which are now, as far as I understand, to be extended to other groups. That being said, it is particularly important that policies in other policy areas are put in place which help to minimise the need for police. This is generally the case in most areas. The representative Chaudhry was in the care of the russian and boasted of the plans for the escalation of the government. Yes, let's take care of it, because it's actually a chapter of grief and, in my opinion, contributes to the fact that it's more crime than necessary. If we take the health region that both Chaudhry and I belong to, health south-east, the waiting time for acute treatment is increased to now maybe up to 6-7 weeks. If you put the word ‘acute treatment’ up to 6 to 7 weeks, everyone will realize that it is not very consistent. It's emergency treatment. In the case of long-term rehabilitation, the waiting time is both three and four months. What is most eye-catching – I really hope the representatives of the Red-Greens will take it along – is that this government has launched such a hard-handed bidding regime against the drug institutions that more than one has to put the hook on the door. That's the result of the commitment to the care that we've seen so far, and that, in my opinion, makes the fine words, which the majority writes in their position, come short when you meet reality. It is significant that, for example: The rescue arm no longer has an agreement with Health South-East regarding rehabilitation sites in the care of drug users. It basically says how to split a well-functioning offer that no longer fits into the tendering regime that this government accepts is taking place within health regions. What is even more regrettable is that a tendering regime also does not ensure that we get a differentiated care for individuals, and does not primarily care for the system. Well, then we'll have to discuss the criminal code later. But I want to say that I think there are a lot of good estimates in the message that the government has submitted, and I think it will get a lot of excitement when it comes to treatment. But all over the world, in criminal matters too, I tried to find out that we have a lot of offers, different offers, that take the individual's needs seriously. Therefore, I would also like to see – and hope that this is something we can work together on – further strengthening the voluntary organisations in the work they are doing, not least in post-protection, and hope that there is something we can see when the message comes to the Stortinget for final treatment. Then I will give the representative Chaudhry the right in that there is also a connection between alcohol policy and crime prevention. After all, we have seen a number of changes in convalescences in several municipalities around the country, not least as a result of the fact that the police themselves have pointed out that there is a clear link. You already knew that, but it might be a good idea to confirm it further. Unfortunately, there are some municipalities that think the police's indication is completely irrelevant. Unfortunately, the municipality we are now in, the Municipality of Oslo, where the Right Party and the Progress Party – and I fear with the Left on the tow – will continue to have such a liberal alcohol policy and stipend policy that more police is needed than what would have been necessary with a more sober approach to it. I would really recommend everyone to read the Oslo Police Consultation Opinion on the alcohol policy action plan presented by the City Council. The political authorities of the Municipality of Oslo are quite the same at this point. It should give parties who tend to listen to the police, a reason to look at this again. We'll never get enough police, I think. This is why it is equally important to contribute to a policy that underpins police work, not countering it. Then to the voting. There we support the proposals No. 1-13 and Nos 17-22. In our alternative budget, we have strengthened the police in various areas, both in Oslo and in general, and in Økokrim. We increase the rates of Free Legal Assistance and also strengthen the voluntary organisations in the field of criminal justice. With that I have given a vote. We do not have our own proposals, they we promoted in the financial position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1007	In criminal matters, the Labour Party is concerned with the rehabilitation and treatment of the convicted, in order to facilitate a crime-free presence. There is a great difference between the party in thought, word and action when it comes to whether the punishment should also be some form of home. In any case, it shall be subject to severe punishment and shall last a long time. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have previously co-existed on a human justice policy where the punishment is the loss of freedom. How does the Christian People's Party view the possibility of cooperating with a party that says they are for re-introduction guarantees, but that is consistent with the progression in the soning, which would mean that so to speak all prison sentences should be sonned in closed prisons, which are little pleased with the rules of leave and the rights of leave? I haven't even mentioned the alcohol policy, where there may be a big difference, because there are some parties that have the motto to reduce the alcohol tax as much as possible. Will the Christian People’s Party accept such steps back?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1018	It could be very interesting to take a longer debate on the grounds of punishment and what to think about in the future in that direction. I think a lot of what the representative Heggo said corresponds to my vision. The punishment must, of course, be a response. So it's also going to have a rehab side by itself. We will have considerable time to discuss this in the context of the announcement made by the Government. With regard to the possibility of cooperation with other parties – I expect that it was the Right Party and the Progress Party to which it was referred – I would say that when we had the previous treatment of the criminal services message that is still governing, it was absolutely possible to find good proposals and common policies also with the Right Party and the Advance Party in that area, so I am not so much concerned about it. There may be some disagreements, but they are also possible to overcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1025	The Christian People's Party has a view of immigration and asylum policy that is very similar to the SV's. We're happy with that. Christian People's Party is seeking cooperation on the right towards the election and in the next period. At the same time, right very much money, 700 million. in the field of asylum policy. It's $971 million worth of progress. kr in integration measures. Then my question is: Isn't it going to be uncomfortable for the Christian People's Party to seek cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, which is so strict in asylum policy and integration policy, because the Christian People's Party has a human asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1035	With regard to the discomfort of disagreement in asylum policy, I must say that I can certainly get considerable advice from the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, who represents a party that has taken her in the field of asylum policy just a short time ago. So the discomfort that might have to be felt by it, I can probably get closer acquainted with it then. It's at least quite eye-catching that the red-green government has the power to get theses out in that area. If and if there is cooperation with the Right in a given situation, I am absolutely sure that we will find agreed solutions, without theses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1042	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1045	Let me begin by giving a little comment on the answer to the two questions that I asked to the Right and the Advance Party respectively. I was told that it was a sought-after issue to set up police resources against what is happening in developing countries, and the asylum policy with which we are going to operate. That's possible, but this is a priority. We could use that as an alternate word. When the Progress Party talks about the importance of helping people near their home, no one disagrees with it. But then you have to give it priority. If I am not mistaken, the Progress Party has just cut the aid appropriations, and then I do not think it is going to go on. But leave it alone. We're going back to what we're going to discuss today. I note that, in the budget we have for debate, almost all attention has been paid to the elements relating to the police until today. I should like to point out, at the outset, that the budget contains very important policies in other areas as well. Not least, I want to highlight the preventive perspective. In terms of prevention, this government has done a lot of good. There is no doubt, however, that the challenges are great. In my view, it is important that we pay attention to the great benefits of investing in prevention versus making repairs afterwards. Prevention should be a priority task in all policy areas. So back to the police. Of course, the focus on the police has a lot to do with the concerns we have seen in and around the police in the last few months. Policemen's protection of their own leisure time has put their finger on a major challenge, namely the resource and manning situation. This is not a challenge that arose now in the autumn. So let's be sober enough to admit that the reasons are back in time, even years ago. Regardless of who is responsible for the situation we have today, it is up to the police and politicians to take responsibility together and find solutions that can help improve the situation. In several areas, the budget shows the right direction in relation to this: among other things, a historically high number of police students are added. This is absolutely necessary if we are to have a police coverage in the long term in line with our neighbouring countries, which the Central Party believes we should have, not least in view of the large geographical area covered by the Norwegian police. In addition to training more police, I believe that it will be absolutely necessary in the future to focus more on whether there is sufficient consistency between the tasks we want the police to perform and the resources available to the police. Authorities and police must jointly put even more pressure on efforts to find solutions that contribute to more police force in the short and long term. The centre party is particularly concerned that we have enough resources and sufficient staff to maintain a close police force with a wide range of tasks. Prevention, as I mentioned earlier, should be a priority task, and then, in the opinion of the Centre Party, local anchoring of police resources is an important prerequisite. If the police are to be able to effectively prevent crime, it is important to have good local knowledge and close local cooperation. I could have said a lot about the police, but I also want to mention a few other things from the budget. I would like to highlight in particular the strengthening of the rescue helicopter service, which means that we can not only continue today's preparedness, but also establish a new base in Florø in 2009. It is also gratifying that the cows should be removed and that more content should be added to the set. I want to highlight the ban on the purchase of newly adopted sexual services. The centre party believes this is an important part of the fight against prostitution and trafficking in human beings. At the same time, we recognise that a ban alone does not solve the problems. We are therefore pleased that the Government is following up the ban on funding projects and measures that can improve the situation of prostitutes and help them out of prostitution. Finally, I would like to point out that the Central Party is pleased that the Land Change Courts are getting a completely necessary lift next year. The appropriation is increased by 20 million. kr, e.g. for investment in new technical equipment and for increased remuneration to address the challenges of recruiting qualified judges. Soil courts are not least important in these days when there is a significant increase in road and rail development. The centre party would stress that a well-functioning land change court is a prerequisite for the rapid launch and implementation of socially important development projects. In addition to transport projects, this also applies to the development of wind and small power. As you know, the size of the population decided to reform the land change activity back in 2003. The reform included, inter alia: As of April 2004, he became a district judge. Although the referees now have the same obligations, demands and limitations as other judges, it is a fact that there are still large pay differences. Although the services of the Land Change Court are highly sought, the Court has had to deal with major recruitment problems that may in the long run have serious consequences, among other things. for major development projects. The central party is therefore pleased that the increase in appropriations in 2009 included: must be paid at an increased rate. It is important to follow up the case of the Land Change Court in the years following 2009, in order to ensure the necessary recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1073	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1076	It's always interesting to listen to the representative Samuelsen – something I've had the pleasure of doing for many years, and I've been going on with it, at least for a while. The representative was involved in an important area, namely that policy is about priorities. The representative comes from an area that is struggling with police coverage, great distances, and he was concerned with local knowledge and the importance of it. Then I think it's surprising that you're not even more offensive to the challenges of the district. What may surprise me most in this regard is that the region of the representative Alf Ivar Samuelsen has great distances in terms of custody transport, where large police resources are used. The Progress Party has taken on board the challenges facing it, and has written a note pointing out that Mid-Hålogaland has a particularly great challenge, and that there is a need to look at increased reconciliation and care capacity here. So the government has chosen not to do that. Is that a good and conscious priority on the part of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1085	I thank you for the question. Once again, I should be honest to say that in some areas, we have not reached the means that are needed. That is why I made it so clear in my speech that it is very important to bring the directives we give to the police, the prerequisites we give for the tasks they are going to carry out, and the financial framework that is. There is no agreement, but I find that we are on the right track, as a certain man said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1092	The representative Samuelsen and the government parties use the term ‘protection of their own leisure’ in terms of the situation of policemen, with an undertone. Especially in District Norway, we see that the local police are in the process of being confused. How is the protection of personal leisure by the police different from that of other workers for their own leisure when they have a challenging working situation? The centre party has always been in the first place with regard to taking the employee's lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1097	I do not see that there is any special difference between police protection of their own leisure time and the protection of other workers' own leisure time. We know that historically, the police haven't had a strike. They are in a different situation and feel well based on the amount of work they are required to do, that there is reason to act. I have a great deal of understanding of that, and I hope that the Government through its further work is able to put sufficient resources at its disposal to avoid escalating the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1104	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1107	The fundamental task of justice policy is to ensure the security of citizens based on the rule of law. Individuals must feel secure that offences will be investigated and charged. The left considers that it is at the heart of a rule of law that, as a general rule, only those who represent the authorities should be able to exercise power over citizens. Otherwise, it could be tempting to substitute for the person who ‘shadows’ this, to say something about what you think about history description. Because there's something I've experienced the times I've been in the Committee's debates here in the Chamber, it's that there's been a lot of history in the last three years, as the representative Ellingsen pointed out. My horizon isn't as long in this area as it is Ellingsen's, but I think I'm refraining from coming up with more history. After all, no one has a monopoly on it. On the basis of this year's budget, we choose to prioritise more money for the police. Unfortunately, there is a difficult resource situation for the police in several places in the country. Examples of that are many of them. We also want to increase the staffing of the police, because we don't want an important state, but a clear, active and visible police force. The left considers that there is a need for increased involvement of the police and, in particular, for strengthening the outreach and the fight against organised crime, including financial crime. We're glad the government is increasing the recording at the Police College. We proposed this earlier this year, and we believe that it is an important and correct measure. What we have also pointed out in several rounds with the questioning of the Minister of Justice is that the capacity of what exists is overfilled in many ways and that alternative solutions need to be considered where this could be localised. Of course, I am not going to hide that I have pointed to the area in my own county – for several reasons. Our county has always recruited heavily to positions of so-called authoritarian character, both in the defence and in the police, and there are localities, among others. the former camp of the Guards. While we're training police, we think it's right to use civilian positions, because it could relieve trained policemen. Civilians can take over several of the tasks, many of which have been dealt with earlier in the debate, such as: the transport of prisoners, detention and the strengthening of office services. At the same time, it is necessary to increase the number of police lawyers. On that basis, the Left has also proposed to allocate 66 million. to the police in addition to the budget of the Government. Of this, we have proposed 22 million to the Oslo Police. kr in addition to the government's premium. That increase will give Oslo Police District 44 new civilian posts, which can release police-trained personnel for operational purposes. We have also seen that it is a challenge for asylum seekers who have finally been rejected to remain in Norway. Part of the solution should be to bet on return work. Rapid return is important for individuals who have been rejected and for maintaining the legitimacy of the asylum institution. The Left has therefore proposed to grant something more to it, in addition to what is proposed by the Government. The left today addresses a proposal for basic legal research. The left has also focused on basic legal research in this year's budget. The Left wants to continue a vigilance for legal research in cooperation with the Research Council. We have therefore made proposals today that the government will return to the Stortinget on a reinforced commitment to legal fundamental research. Otherwise, I think most of us agree with what the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten said, that we want Grandma to move freely and safely in the street, which many have been involved in the debate. I want to link some comments to the land change. The left-hand side is not known in the committee. We are fully committed to the Right and the Advance Party has written in its note on this. We believe that the land change court is a particularly important court, with a lot of jurisdiction, among other things. on dispute settlement. We believe that this is so essential that it should not have been treated in a vote. We want to strongly support the comment written by the Right Party and the Advance Party. Otherwise, I would like to raise the Left's proposal and give an explanation of vote on what proposals from the Right and the Advance Party we want to support, since we are not in the Committee. The left will support the proposals No. 1-7 and proposals Nos. 9-12, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. We support proposal No. 14) by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and proposals Nos. 17, 18, 19 and 21, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1133	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1139	The government has facilitated a DNA reform in Norway, and it has been decided that DNA analyses should be centrally funded. This means that we are freed from operating resources for the police districts that we can use for other police work. Introducing the DNA reform is one of the most important things we do in order to improve the possibilities for a faster resolution of crime, for example. Winning crimes and – perhaps even more important – acts of violence and rape. From the draft budget to the Left, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Skelstad, whether the Left does not want to follow up the DNA reform, as they re-prioritize 30 million. Dr from the DNA reform to positions in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1149	The left agrees that DNA is an effective tool for the resolution of crimes. However, we believe that the register has become more extensive, and we are concerned that citizens are still being registered and monitored. So we want a slightly more limited register than the majority wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1154	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1157	I think, with all due respect, that there is at least the seventh time I'm in this kind of debate on justice policy, first in opposition, then some good years in position. And I must say that I share many of the views of the representative Ellingen on how these debates go. The reason why I am also concerned about this is that, at this budgetary procedure, I think there is reason to point out, first of all, the great consensus it is about very important parts of the justice sector. It's a pleasure for the Government, and not least for me as a trade union council, that many parties end up about a lot of politics. Secondly, I think we should be careful to apply the strong characteristics as the representative Aspaker made in his contribution. I don't think that benefits political work, and it doesn't help to create security for people to use that kind of characteristic. The paradox is this: if you look at the situation of the police, in many districts we see a happy decline in significant areas of crime, and we are in a situation where the Norwegian police are more manned than ever – taking into account that the record at the Police College is also increased to a record 552, as opposed to the low 240 when Aspaker's party traps were put in place by the government – and then I have problems to see that it benefits the political debate to use the name disaster budget. It is also important to look at what this government has said in the political declaration it is holding, the Soria Moria Declaration, with some retrospective reflection, to deliver, and what to do – also for the broadest part of the debate: We have chosen to establish a security guard in all the rescue bases in Norway. Building a new base in Florø is within the budget. The right and the other opposition parties chose not to do so when they were placed in the previous period. We have chosen to increase the income limit for free legal aid, which means too many thousands of households. It's in this year's budget. The opposition parties chose not to do so. We've chosen to spend over 100 million. kr extra on Norwegian police linked to the DNA reform. The opposition parties chose not to do so. In these four years, we have chosen to follow up what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, that the reconciliation queue must be reduced. When we took over, the queue was 2 500-3 000 judges. Now it's under 500 judges. There's ambition about and good prospects that we're going to get to zero. Right in position chosen to not take that job. We have promised in the Soria Moria Declaration to consider building a children's home. We've chosen to build six. We have chosen, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, to build Alternatives to Violence across the country, as opposed to the previous government. We have chosen to do the highest police college admissions over time, as opposed to the previous government. We have chosen to put the issue of violence against children and women on the agenda, with both money, legal issues and other operational measures. We see that the frequency of reporting increases, and that more and more children get help. The last government decided not to do so. We have chosen to start building Gulating Lawyers, which costs us a lot of money, and which hopefully will also help to further improve the efficiency of the courts, as we have seen over these years. We have chosen to establish a completely new emergency contact for the police, which costs 3 billion DKK–4 billion in investment, and which has a significant impact on police security and the operational capacity of the police to detect crime. We have chosen to raise the situation of victims of violence, as is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, among others. by extending the compensation system for victims of violence. These are some of the points that we have chosen to settle, which makes it possible for us, with today's budget, when we go into the fourth year, to say that what we have promised in the field of justice policy action, we are fulfilling. That doesn't mean that we're in the goal and that we're satisfied. Rather, on the contrary, we see that we have significant challenges. For the more children's houses we build, the more we see the need to do more to the victims, but also to make the reactions to those who are sentenced, better. That's why it's absolutely essential that we now also get to grips with what is not specifically mentioned in the Soria Moria statement, but is about the content of the ransom. I am very pleased with them from the opposition, among others. The representative of the Syversen, who goes up to this pulpit and says that the content of the Criminal Service Communication, which was presented here in September, has a lot to do with it. I believe it is essential that we be able to bring together a broad majority around those measures to ensure legitimacy of the response, but it is also essential because there is a considerable amount of work that needs to be done if we are to be able to obtain content in the return guarantee, and if we are to be able to get more on the right keel again after settlement. One of the most important things for us in the position and in the Government of the draft budget to be adopted now is the first step to give those who are in and out of office a completely different content of punishment. It may be a much more important debate for the future than the debate we have on the actual situation of the police, and to what extent we have the opportunity to combat crime. In any case, it's vital that we get the percentage of information. If we get more, we also have to make sure that the reaction that comes helps to spin more. Therefore, they are important to us the agreements we enter into with the municipalities on housing. The representative of Akhtar Chaudhry was in his post, that we are now building educational facilities in all prisons, is in place. That's why it's important for us that funds are now coming to more drugs. There are three open, but there will be more to next year. That's why it's important for us to also get to grips with what's pointed to, among other things. from the Christian People's Party, that we must strengthen the voluntary part into criminal care in order to build better social networks. There we are only in the beginning, but I hope that the Storting also notices that you are starting to implement many of the measures that you have actually announced in the Storing Message, and that we are open to take a discussion around. But we have it busy in many ways. Because maybe the biggest challenge in bringing down crime is how we fill the content of the reactions. In addition to the fact that the reconciliation queue has now been removed, it gives us a great opportunity to turn some of the resource use into just dealing with those who are inside and zones, in a better way than what we've done before. So I would say that on the other side of criminal justice, there are significant prevention challenges. I am surprised that the representative of Aspaker, in his speech, almost sneezes the police councils and makes them a negative case. Why has it become like this? Is it because everything has to be negative, or is it because the idea or the implementation comes from another team? More than 200 police councils now operate around the whole country, and we see that this is important in terms of police force and police resources. In Arendal it is reported that after the closure of the cranes earlier, 20-30 pst have been experienced. Decline in the crime of violence – it says in the Evening Post today. What does that mean for the police resources? Saving a few hours at night will result in a significant reduction in the crime to which there is an unusual amount of police force. Here I believe that especially the Right has a significant challenge if you now want to disqualify the efforts of the Police Councils. There is reason to be particularly alert to the police situation despite this. This is why the Government has initiated a close dialogue with, among other things. Joint Police Association. That's why we're increasing the recording at the Police College as strongly as we do. We're struggling with the fact that we don't have enough policemen. That is also the background to our proposal for appropriations, which is a strong reinforcement, in my opinion, of the police budgets, and which will make it possible for us to get more policemen to work for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1221	I asked a question to the Minister of Justice in the autumn that the lack of crew in Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts is so precarious that the management has decided to close the ‘Third-Line Section’ and transfer the Spanish to the service as operators at the Operation Centre. The council's answer was a standard answer, as he has answered a lot of the questions in the fall, that everything is going to be so much better next year, that there was a larger admission of students. He also showed that Stavanger has good results in this regard. But those who are known in the area know that Stavanger is far from Haugesund and another police district. Thomas Breen was confronted with this, and Thomas Breen replied that he thought the answer to the Minister of Justice was unusually foolish. My question to the Council of State is whether he shares the assessment that Thomas Breen made at the National Council of Police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1228	I don't give stupid answers. When it comes to police personnel issues, it is quite right that I have almost given a standard response. It would be strange if I started to change the answer to the same question, because that's the same question that is now being asked by the Progress Party and the Right in particular, in terms of the police crew out there. It shows in many ways how insistent the judicial debate has been – I kept saying well, to use a current expression. I think it's important that we get out of this question, because it gives the same answers: you strengthen the budgets, you contribute to increased admission to the Police College. But if we're just going to focus on this out in public space, here in the Storting and in the general political debate, it's going to go wrong both in terms of prevention, and, as I mentioned in my main post, in terms of responding better. I don't want a justice policy that's so demanding that we've just looked at it. We must have looked at everything. It'll benefit the police, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1237	If the council had listened, he would have heard that I was not the one who characterized the budget as disastrous. It was the police organizations that consulted the Judicial Committee, both the National Association of Police Officials and the Joint Association of Police. It's almost New Year's, and then new ATB is coming for police lawyers, and it's estimated that tens of years' work will disappear from the prosecution stage. Then I have two questions for the Council of State. First of all, doesn't the Council of State think that this is information that the Storting should have? And: What is the reason why this matter is neither mentioned in the budget nor in the new age? But more importantly, perhaps it is to ask the Council of State if he now has a plan for how he will replace the tens of years that disappear, while at the same time we have a DNA reform and we have expectations that there will be more issues, and there will be a need for at least the capacity we have on the prosecution side of the police, in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1246	Our plan is in the budget, and it has been known for a long time what we think about this. Let me just take Oslo as an example, where the right now suggests that you add another $30 million. kr, and the disaster shall be cancelled. If you see what that will mean for Oslo, it's my claim that you would earn more in Oslo on police force by getting Right in Oslo City Council to shut down the cranes at 0 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. It would mean a reduction in crime, but the time the police are out would probably be worth more than 30 million. are able to deal with civil matters. Nor is there anything in the Right Budgetary Statement that would have meant that the issue of the prosecution's situation or the police's situation had been addressed. I believe that the budget that is now in place for Oslo – and also for the rest of the country – has good room for further development of the police as we wish, and right now also to begin to accept the increased resources that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1255	It was a real self-esteem with which the Council of State began its contribution. In the old days, we got a scotch home from school, and here it was at least checked for all the good things – it is certain. It was almost that I began to wonder if the legal state of Norway started about. ==References== But it may well have happened something positive before as well, under other governments. However, I would like to return to a question I raised with the chairperson of the Judicial Committee, namely the issue of so-called electronic home-soning, where the chairperson of the Committee actually opened up – in line with a first draft consultation – that this form of compensation can also be considered in the field of custody. Is that also a point of principle on the part of the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1263	First of all, I have to say that – I kept saying – when no one else does, I get to do it! I don't just do that to tell you that there's a lot in the budget that's good. We have gathered a cross-political majority on this, too – in the case of the rescue services, in the case of DNA, which there are many who are involved and support, etc. It's a job that's done. I actually have it on my heart and believe it is crucial now also to the population that you do not blackpaint the situation, as we have seen in the last few months and weeks. With regard to the question of home-sonance, today it is possible to use large-scale prison surrogates as an alternative to prison. And I'm in line with the head of the Justice Committee: when you have access to ask for a human being, for example. to take up residence at home or in a geographical area, the scheme may also be extended accordingly. I'm open to that, but it's an assessment that you get to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1270	A lot goes in the right direction with respect to this. It's not the big disagreements -- the way I can see it. But we were in the middle of the debate the little bit problematic about having enough policemen, and that the capacity of the educational institutions has been detonated in many ways. I am aware that there is a temporaryity with the relief on Kongswinger. I have asked this question in a few rounds earlier, without now coming back to normal. I could imagine challenging the Minister of Justice – in one minute’s time – about this: What does the Council of State think about in the future when it comes to recording, and the possibilities that now lie ahead in the horizon?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1279	We are now running a very high recording at the Police College – so there are 552 students until next year, and there are 432 who have been recorded this year. I remember that under the previous government there were 240 at the lowest, so there are over 600 more policemen trained in this four-year period. It's an important historical statement, because it says something about the background to why there are so few policemen who are graduating today. We've blown the roof of the Police College, which can't take more than 432. That's why we now want to use Kongswinger, the practice center on the Setter farm, so that you can do as much recording as we do next year. Then we have a work going on in the department to look at how we develop the police high school system of the future. I am aware that the replicator is concerned about Værnes. I have been at Værnes and have been presented with the plans there. We've said so far that it won't be relevant for us to consider any relocation of the Police College in Oslo, but we're dependent on getting more legs to stand on, and that's where we haven't yet concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1288	In fact, I am pleased to note that the government has taken up something that the Progress Party has been very positive about for many years, namely hiring civilians in the police to release resources for police operations. I think that's positive. The government has granted the ‘swimming’ sum of 10 million. kr for this work. My question to the Council of State is as follows: If we know that we have 27 police districts, this won't be a little muse in the sea, and that will be about 27 police districts. NOK 370000 on average per year. the police district and a position is approximately 600,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1295	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the word «musepiss» is parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1298	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1303	We now believe it is absolutely essential that we get more civilians into the police. I fully agree with the replicator that if it had only been the 10 million. That now lies as an addition in the budget, one could use for it, it would have been what I daren't say, but that the replicator was inside. It would have been too small. I have to say that of the large part of the budget of the police, which is several billion dollars, significant amounts are spent on civilians – among others. on police arrest, on transport, but also on other tasks. We want to develop this further, but we have set a clear limit – we do not want to get private into the police in the sense that you have a private business. You have to hire people in the police to handle this. I also think it will be a challenge in the future and an opportunity for us to use it more widely, until the major recordings come out of the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1313	Well-being is important to the security of our society. The relationship between real and felt security, well-being and crime is complex. But it is clear that the government’s strengthening of common welfare systems and fair redistribution is one of many important contributions to reducing crime and increasing the security of our citizens. It is an overall objective of the Red-Green parties that the police, in liaison with other public and private actors, should prevent crime. This is what we do, among other things. through the establishment of well over 200 police councils across the whole country. There is no doubt that by having a much greater focus on prevention, we can save society and individuals too much pain and loss. I am therefore very pleased with the focus the Minister of Justice has had on this, and we all see that the results come in the municipalities where concrete and binding agreements have been put in place to implement and develop this cooperation. For example, I can. mention the results over the last two years to the largest municipality in Hedmark, measured in population, Ringsacht. There's juvenile delinquency halved. In Kristiansund, the crime of violence has been reduced by over 30 p.m., with simple measures. The same can also be said from when the unknown trade unionist Arne Johannessen was a Lensmann in Sogndal. There they had a relatively large problem of violence that they could not solve with traditional police methods. The solution there was better lighting of a specific public outdoor area and restriction of opening hours for serving. The point of mentioning this is very important, that we do not lose sight of the simple solutions to prevent crime, and that we point out that the police alone cannot have ownership of the crime that is taking place in society. As far as the situation of the police is concerned, we have repeatedly discussed it in this Chamber in the last year. In the last few months, we have seen that the Joint Association of Police has spent millions of dollars carrying out a massive impact campaign that intends to provide a poor description of the Norwegian police. It's legitimate for a trade union to work for better pay, but I have to say I'm very concerned about the form this campaign has. There is no doubt that the campaign of influence of the Police Federation also creates some unnecessary fear among many people, especially the elderly in the population. I find it unfortunate that some of the police's employees contribute to it, when we all believe that their main job is the opposite. It was therefore liberating that the trade union head of the second large union association of police officers, the National Association of Police Officers, was much more nuanced about the situation in the Norwegian police at their national meeting a few weeks back. It wasn't that you somehow thought everything was good, but you thought we were on the right track, and that it's better now than before. On several occasions during the autumn, I agreed with the Head of the Police Union that the manning situation we now have in the police, we politicians must take self-criticism for. The main reason we now have an understaffed police force is that over the course of the 2000s, we had too few students at the Police College. I believe that the main responsibility is for the Stoltenberg I government and not least for the Bondevik II government. If the Bondevik II government had had the same results on the training of policemen after four years as the government is going to have, we would have had almost 700 more policemen out in the street now. This is a significant number. It's e.g. the double number of annual works of all overtime used in 2006 in the establishment. We had not had a police force that systematically had to use overtime to fill up their watch lists. In this perspective, I believe the Right's way of acting in the police debate through the fall is evidence of great political cowardice and irresponsibleness. That they have so far not recognized once that they themselves have to bear responsibility for today's manning situation, making the criticism they come with against the sitting government become like kicking open doors. After all, we have already carried out an analysis of how many police officers we need, and we follow up this analysis at first opportunity. I'm very pleased about that, and in the long run, this grip is going to be the most important thing for us to continue to have a qualitatively good police that manages to follow the goals the Stortinget expects us to have. The red-green parties are increasing next year's police budget by 216 million. kr. That is, during this period we have strengthened the police by about 800 million. kr actually. We've also built up the settlement queue in a short time. There is no doubt that the settlement queues such as the Bondevik II government have calmed down and looked at increasing, have generated more crime. The fact that convictions could risk waiting for years to settle for their deeds has led many in despair to continue their criminal acts. The disappearance of the settlement queue also means that we can now gradually lower the occupancy rate in the prisons, so that we can have more custody sites released. This in turn, as several have pointed out, will lead to the police not using so much resources in the transport of custody prisoners around looking for free space. We're also going to spend about 10 million dollars. kr next year on the centrally funded DNA reform. Our expectations for the reform are that it will contribute to a higher level of clarification. The fact that it is centrally funded will lead to research assessments and not economic assessments that will determine whether police districts are using the extended option. I would also like to point out that the government's focus on better cooperation in the department is important. Getting better practices on cooperation across police districts will contribute to a more effective police force. Developing better cooperation beyond the borders of the country will also contribute to the same. We see that crime is becoming more cross-border, and then it is important that we also follow up on commitments and cooperation with the authorities of other countries. The government's work on the Prüm agreement will be a central moment for this, in addition to, among other things. Schengen cooperation and other cooperation forums such as Europol and Interpol. I have experienced being quoted twice today from this pulpit. I might take that as an honor. But I would have appreciated if the quotes were in the right context. At first, I was quoted from Right Aspacer as being positive about a police study. Yes, that's right, but there were some assumptions ahead of it, the representative Aspaker. The idea was that it was important first to put in place the crew study, that is, the crew report that was presented this summer, because in the Soria Moria statement, we had pointed out that we have an understaffed police officer. Then I also said that it was important that we now carried out an operational analysis of the Norwegian police force, to see if that increase of 25 pst. in the resources that we've had in the last ten years, are actually being used correctly. When it was done, I said that I was positive – or at least not completely reprehensible – to see if there was a need for a police study. Then I also experienced that the representative Solvency Horne quoted me. I have a little bigger problems with that, because what she was quoting is, first of all, not correct, and second, there are a number of assumptions about the question that came up in the debate, to which you did not refer, and that makes my answer completely wrong in that context. It would have been nice, when you were first quoted, that at least it wasn't completely taken out of context. Finally, I would like to point out that I believe there is room for a more effective police force. The evaluation of police reform points to some of those opportunities, and so does the supervisory report of the Oslo Police Directorate in 2007. In this context, I would also like to point out that the response from Ellingen in the exchange of lines for a while back was a bit strange. We want to make it more effective to free up more, but we do it as we add far more resources, not what the Progress Party does in relation to the tax rate, where they cut resources and still need more efficiency. I believe that it is important that we now, in the important dialogue between the Minister of Justice and the various actors in the police action, look at all the opportunities that exist, which have been highlighted in the evaluation of the police reform, which has been highlighted by the Oslo Police District Supervisory Report, and which have come as good suggestions from a number of the organisations associated with the police action. I hope that the parties at Stortinget contribute constructively to solving the strained situation we are actually in, and that we do not contribute to creating more insecurity in the population than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1341	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1344	First, I just want to apologize if Thomas Breen feels wrong, but that's what can happen from time to time. There has been a lot of talk about crisis this fall – financial crisis and police crisis. I want to focus on a slightly different crisis, which it hasn't been so much on, and that's the criminal code. Then one might well ask: Is there a crisis in criminal custody? Aren't the cows on their way down and everything in their best order? The government boasts of almost every day that there is a historical commitment to criminal care. The Minister is also called a Minister of Criminal Affairs of the police. If you go into the numbers in the criminal justice system, you see that the increase is only a result of the mass of buildings being transferred to State Building. The budget has no increase in operation. Crime prevention requires a lifting of operations in order to maintain an adequate level of safety, but not least in order to provide professional content for the settlement of the prisoners. There have been more people coming in today. It is adopted next year, and it has great ambitions for content and high quality in professional work. But this isn't free. There is a need for money to operate in order to really get the criminal health service message. All the good programs and projects that are there, and not least contact officers, cost money. Nor will sufficient funds be allocated for the proper operation of measures already established. The criminal services themselves, referring to a project that is now opened on Evje, say that it will be pure storage. Eight million. NOK is allocated to 20 places, and there is not much content in the payment of that money. It is also regrettable that the government does not maintain the recording at KRUS. It is now important to keep it under pressure for years to come. We know that there are a lot of people who are about to lose their old age pension, there's a shortage of professionals, and it's important to have professional competence both for safety and if we're going to get proper content in the compensation. The progress party thinks it's completely wrong signal to give, and the content of the compensation is only fine words in party speeches if we don't get any more trained at KRUS. We note that the government's investment in operations in 2008 was only a vague bluff, and that next year will be as weak as in recent years. The Minister of Justice's heartchild these three years has been getting rid of the atoning cows. He'll be ready soon, he'll have to. But the Progress Party is concerned about the Government's efforts to reduce the queues. As we see it, you just move the problems from the inside to the outside of the prisons, and that's completely the wrong way to go. To quote from the popular edition of the Criminal Service Bulletin, it says that punishment has more objectives. It has to be deterrent to others, it has to make it impossible to make new crimes while punishing the sentence and it has to be rehabilitating. Then it's wrong to move the ticket out into the open. It is better to focus more on content, and there is a need for operational means if we are to be able to do this. A few weeks ago, we could read a little piece in the Evening Post, where it said: ‘Let the prisoners go free for Christmas’. Not until the system of home-sonation is in place, one starts to relax on the set-up. The party of progress is completely opposed to the alternative solution. There is extensive transformation of Norwegian homes into prison. The big mountain also boasts that he has reduced probation. He should actually be so tough that he completely abolished it, because 61 000 prison days are a lot. It's not nice to see the cows disappear. It's something that conflicts with people's sense of justice. We are also disappointed that the Government does not establish transitional residences, also for those sentenced to detention at Ila. There is a high risk of letting prison sentences directly into society. It is important to put such housing in place, where criminal services can control this group of prisoners. It was nice to hear the committee leader's commitment to the victim, and she points out that there's going to be a lot of talk about the victim in the new message. I just want to say that there are more references to the bibliography than there are pages where it says about the victim in the criminal health report that comes. Finally, I just have to say a few words about the DNA bet. Last year we had major debates on this and analytical capacity. It is especially now to sit and hear the Bjørnface talk about both capacity, «second opinion» and competition in relation to what is now being developed in Tromsø. We already have that capacity of GENA in Stavanger, and it's impossible to understand the logic that you can't use the private, but you have to build something completely new in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1380	The Council of State underlined the importance of consensus in justice policy, that it is a value. I agree. At the same time, however, the Council of State spent a great deal of time polishing and naming the representative Aspaker’s posts as marked by unfortunate ‘characteristics’. It's been a long time by this Council of States. Everything that doesn't fit into the reality he's trying to create through the plentiful array of press releases x the number of information workers has published is either described as unsubstantial, or to do his homework. The selective way of seeing the world was also the background that the Council of State had major problems before the PF national meeting at Røros, where he almost had to run out of the hall after the speech was given. With a majority behind and with more money than ever, 2008 was not the year of the police, despite the promise of this Minister of Justice. 2009 will be, but it will not be now either – possibly with the opposite sign. You have more money to distribute, but you have not used that space to strengthen the police. It's not a characteristic, it's a fact. And then, the representative Aspaker asked a question twice, first to the committee chairman, then to the council, and the question was very clear. It said: What is the significance of the new ATB for police lawyers? The chairman of the Committee did not respond, and the Council of State did not respond. There is nothing in the budget. The issue is that the Storting as a body should have all the information the Storing needs to take its budgetary decision. It is actually completely uninteresting for Stortinget as a body to be shown to conversations to be held in the back room with one or the other organisation. Not at one point has this government informed the whole Storting about what the effect of new ATB on police lawyers is going to be. To put it this way: it's probably okay that the opposition has not always got everything, but a prerequisite for the opposition and the Storting to do its entire homework and adopt a budget based on correct and correct information, is that we have the whole picture and get a description of the situation. The background for repeating that question once again is that we got to know about this almost by chance when we traveled around the country. It is also quite striking how very much information is kept away from the Storting, information you can find out almost by chance by visiting all the places that will seem so amazing, whether it's children's house or police. I don't think it's right for a Council of State to answer by sweeping away a question that is actually a basic premise for us to take a budget decision. The fact that the way is going is perhaps a good principle to have on other things, but not when it comes to basic information such as a government, to ensure that the Storting as a body is given, so that decisions can be made and the budget used as a management tool all year round. I repeat the question: what is the significance of the new ATB to police lawyers for the police's annual work, the total use of resources in the police? And what are you going to do to pay for the lack of jobs that it will be because of that? And how have you finally intended to inform the Storting about the work done on this, and we have not been informed about it? So finally a little bit about that some black paints. Right and policemen around the country have been accused of black painting. But what are we doing? What we have mentioned is that many police employees are at risk of not getting help from anyone other than weight gainers. For example, two policemen against 20 in my police district have been totally dependent on the help of sentinels in order to be able to perform the service at all. It's no wonder that family fathers and mothers in the police, like everyone else, think it's okay to be pretty safe when they go to work, know that there are crews there who can help them if they get into a sharp situation. There have been situations in which policemen have been ordered to watch, despite the fact that close family members have been dying. I don't think it's a matter of protecting about leisure time. I think it is a matter of being able to have a job, where you feel that you have an employer who operates in a way that other employees can naturally expect. The extent of serious threats to police officers and their families is increasing every year, and there is a need to break the Working Environment Act as much as possible to get it all to hang together. It is not accidental, probably, that the Oslo police district is under supervision and has been fined by the Labour Inspectorate. I'm not going to pretend that the Right can magic away all of this at 1, 2, 3, but a prerequisite for doing our homework is at least that we get answers to the questions that are asked, and don't get polemics back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1399	When dealing with justice policy, it is important to see the whole chain of criminal cases together to get a good result that ensures legal certainty for citizens and a safe society to live in. It is important that the victim of a criminal act be taken seriously and followed up by the police, the investigators and the court. But it is also important that the person who is to be judged for a criminal offence feels that he is getting a fair trial. There has been a lot of talk about the police today, but another important actor in the criminal chain is the prosecutors in the police, who have an important job in running the investigation and bringing matters to justice. Right-wing representatives have referred to the ATB for the police lawyers. They have asked questions several times, and I expect the Council of State to comment on them later. Another important player is the ten state attorney offices we have in Norway. They're the ones who process the serious issues. The 2009 budget included an increase for this stage in the two-million-dollar criminal justice chain. kr. The idea is that this increase should mainly go to Oslo State Attorney's Office. They serve the densely populated area of the country as well as several major cities that bring with them serious crime in this region. Furthermore, it is important that the courts have the opportunity to follow up the cases before the courts in a proper manner. This means, among other things: that the duration of proceedings is reasonable and that the premises are suitable for setting the right and the day-to-day operation of a court. That is why I am pleased to note that the 2009 budget introduces a start-up grant of 20 million. kr to newly built Gulating Lawyers in Bergen. The construction is scheduled to be completed in 2011, and it will end when couples who sit in the hall waiting to be married sit side by side with people waiting to be held in custody. The law-enforcement court shall have a framework reflecting the seriousness of criminal proceedings before the law enforcement authority. Furthermore, it is important that the courts be able to keep down the balance of their cases. There has been a good job from the Court of Justice and the different courts in recent years. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has proposed more use of conflict councils as a solution to criminal matters, and it has, during this process of mass destruction, been stressed that we want more use of conflict councils. The 2009 budget includes an increase for the Councils of Conflict of 6 million. kr, which makes it possible to use more of e.g. the so-called major meetings, which have proved to be effective in several fields of action, including: in bullies. We also saw that the selection that the Government put down after the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2005–06, on alternative criminal responses for them between 15 and 18 years of age, highlighted the conflict council as an alternative for young offenders. It doesn't help to be right if you don't get it right. That is why I look forward to the Government not long before submitting a major communication on the legal aid system in Norway. We spend a lot of money on legal aid this year, but it's uncertain if we use it the right way. In the 2009 budget, we increase the income limits for legal aid recipients to DKK 246 000 for lonely people and to NOK 369 000 for couples. This allows more people to be covered by the scheme. However, it is important that we also support the specific legal aid measures, such as the Gate lawyer and student law assistance measures. The street lawyer works against drug users and gets clients who rarely seek lawyers to get their rights, if they know at all that they have rights. It is important that they are given the opportunity to look for work, so that they reach this group. In conclusion, I just want to say that the government is more than fulfilling what they say about children's homes in the Soria Moria Declaration. There the government says it will consider establishing a children's home during the ageing period, but in fact there will be a total of six pieces during 2009. Good job!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1422	I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, who is so very concerned about alcohol policy and the crime it causes. But Akhtar Chaudhry is, as I see it, actually a supporter for those who serve crime in connection with alcohol. By means of high charges, we actually encourage crime through smuggling. Crime through smuggling creates violence, creates misery and creates uncontrolled products in circulation. And this is actually a lot worse than having availability, legal control and legal sales at the tipping points. High charges, as the representative Akhtar Chaudhry is concerned about, create nothing but misery. They lead to smuggling liquor flowing across this country, and it helps to create the misery we see through the violence that we see, among other things. has in Oslo. Smuggling liquor and drugs — to include them — are at the root of all evil. If the representative Chaudhry is so busy getting good control of the alcohol policy, he should be a supporter for us to lower the tax, for us to have controlled forms of alcohol donation in this country. The government has been and is occupied by victims of violence, and that's good. Once the government has invested funds in its budget budgets for victims of violence, we are satisfied with it. But I'm a little skeptical. Victims of violence go through a difficult period of time when they are going through hearings and legal proceedings to obtain any compensation mechanism to compensate them for what they have been subjected to. Then it would have been very good to have someone to lean on, an agent who could help them through this heavy time, so that they could manage to figure out through the jungle of laws and regulations, that they could get the help they need, and not have to use their resources to obtain the compensation they are legally entitled to. A victim officer would be involved in contributing so that these victims of violence did not get a heavier daily life than they have after having been through something as terrible as it is to be a victim of violence. I am also a little surprised when I look at the government's cut in compensation for fellow judges. I think it's petty to cut the small compensation for fellow judges who are involved in legal proceedings. In fact, participating in a trial is a challenge. It's not easy to sit there again and again and listen to what the different people tell us about in court, what actions they've been subjected to. And so they're going to sit for free and do this. It is petty that they cannot receive this small reward. If it doesn't make it easier, it's at least a pass for them to take on that problem. It may well be excused that being a fellow judge is a civil obligation. Yes, it is. But it is actually a citizen's duty to be a politician, too, both municipal politicians, state politicians and big business politicians. Thomas Breen mentioned cross-border crime. It's a fact, and it's becoming more and more of it. It would have been interesting to hear with the representative Breen if he could not then be a little more concerned about how many and who enter this country, and whether we could get a better control of it than we have today. Finally, about the manning crisis in the police: it was predicted by both the Progress Party and others that we would have a crisis in 2008. The police force claimed the same thing, and that crisis actually came. What has done that we have not received it before is that the police through their efforts have helped to maintain some sort of law and order in this country. But now it's over, and what's done is fine. We have high admissions at the Police College, and that's good, but it won't help until many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1435	Security in everyday life is the goal of the Government’s judicial policy, an active, holistic and knowledge-based justice policy that enhances the security of society. It presented the budget in a good way to comply with the Soria Moria Declaration when it comes to crime reduction. It is important to look at justice policy in a broad welfare policy perspective, where good welfare is conducive to the elimination of differences and the prevention of crime. The government has recently submitted St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies. The Labour Party believes that punishment that works is decisive to prevent reoccurrence crime and to safeguard society. The message focuses on the fact that the forms of reconciliation should not be more strict than is necessary and that the execution of the sentence should enable it to choose a life without crime when he/she has completed the sentence. Since Norway doesn't have life sentences, everyone is going back to society one day, maybe as your neighbor. The Labour Party is pleased that the message focuses on increasing the use of alternative forms of compensation for prison sentences. There is no point in using closed prisons for those with short sentences, especially first-time convicted and young people. The crime scene is not a good training, where young first-time convicted people have to co-exist with older bark criminals, connect networks and get wrong imagery and heroes. In contrast, community punishment and electronic compensation are good alternatives here, and the percentage of cases of community punishment is about. 20 pst. for one in two to be reincarcerated in prison in five years by common prison sentences. Rapid criminal reaction is important, both in terms of people’s confidence in the criminal system, and in the rapid response that allows the offender to settle separately, settle with society and move on with his or her life. In order to achieve a more effective fight against crime, they are red-green in their work of removing the reconciliation queue and giving the soning new content, very important. It does something about people's perception of justice when judges who go out in the open and wait to come into the atoning, make new laws. We have reduced the pay queue from nearly 3,000 in 2006 to less than 500 in the fall. The removal of the casting queue also gives better quality, as the coating percentage can be lowered. In addition, spare places are released. The temporary arrangement introduced by the Bondevik II Government in 2004 concerning the progressive release of detention places has been changed from a maximum of 20 days to a maximum of 10 days, and the scheme is to be completely terminated once the queue is gone. The Labour Party is also satisfied that we have managed to phase out the duplication. This comes, for example: of a large investment in new prison sites, almost 400 new places are established between 2006 and 2008, and there are 251 new places in prison in 2010. KRUS has also received increased absorption during the period. As of today, unfortunately, the capacity is detonated. And we're looking at an after-school offer for the prison officers. The licensing of criminal services has increased in excess of DKK 1.2 billion in nominal terms over the period 2006-2009, including EUR 80 million. This year, in other departments, to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church and the Ministry of Knowledge. This is particularly in order to strengthen educational provision for those deployed and to ensure health and culture in the creation of new prison sites. It is absolutely crucial that, in addition to the follow-up under restitution, a holistic provision should be ensured at the time of release – the return guarantee is the keyword here. It is not a question of special rights for those involved, but it is a question of whether they should be aware of and be able to benefit from the offers and dishes they already have today. It is the hours and days after release that are most critical for how to proceed with the lax, and the central moment is to ensure settlement, treatment for any drug dependence, possibility of training/training or work. Securing the detached one is absolutely necessary to prevent recurrences. Many people lose both the work and, if necessary, the school place and the place of residence when they have to enter prison. Then it becomes a paradox that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed to electronic reconciliation. In case of electronic shelter, one must go to work and one must be within the four walls of the house 24 hours a day, with the exception of when one is at work/spherical, and thus will have met two of the most important parameters in order to succeed in getting out of a criminal track: work and housing. This is what they are against. The foundation is used, among other things. that all do not have their own housing. So instead of putting the effort into getting all the housing, one is against a good measure. Many countries have one form or another of electronic accomodation. We've put ourselves in an arrangement similar to the Swedish one. The rate of relapse is very low, so it has a success story there, and I hope it's here. I would also like to highlight the important work that volunteers are doing against convicted people both within prison walls and when they have finished zoning. If we want a review of the contributions of voluntary organisations that receive funding via post 70, this is to be able to devour the offer in return for the return guarantee. It is also the case that some prisons have flooded with supply, while others lack supply. A review will provide even better and accurate provision, and the distribution between prisons can be improved. The government will extend the framework for the use of alternatives to prison sentences, especially for young offenders, but also for others. We will extend the framework for the use of community sanctions and delinquency, extend the system of drug programmes with judicial control, change the decisions on minimum prison sentences, and replace prisons with community sentences when no cure can be paid. When we know that about 60 pst. It is important to strengthen treatment and rehabilitation measures for those entering prison. It's great that we have three new Rusmestring units in place in addition to the three we've already established, but that's not enough. I am therefore very pleased with the additional 5 million. kr, which allows us to add additional rest units. It is also important to put the search light on women’s atoning conditions. Here we have a way to go before there is a level playing field between the supply of men and women. The fact that Bredtvedt Women's Prison has now been offered about Stifinner is a major step in the right direction. In addition, we need to do something about the provision of work for women. Work must be of such a nature that a person qualifies for a job outside prison. I want to focus on another important theme that concerns security in everyday life: the Rescue Service. The Norwegian rescue service is organised as a cooperative between a number of public, private and voluntary organisations. Thus, when an accident occurs, we double the effort. It is important and crucial for a good rescue service to maintain their efforts by volunteers. By doubling the supplement from six to twelve million. The Government has clearly signaled that the work in the voluntary rescue service is of great value. In addition, we are now receiving rescue professional advice, which has been requested for many years by voluntary organisations. It's a good piece of work the red-greens have done when it comes to the rescue helicopter service. This is where the Government will take a lot of praise. In fact, the decision on a 24-hour continuum watch was taken as far back as 2002. When the red-green government took over in 2005, only the sun had been on guard. Today, in addition, all the basses, Banak, Bodø, Ørland and Rygge, are in place. In order to strengthen preparedness also in the North-West, the construction of a new base in Florø is under way. This base will be in place in 2009 with a standby and a doctor starting from the start. To maintain a high level, Stortinget is a proposal for an additional 33.75 million. kr for the rescue helicopter service. It's going to be working on replacing today's Sea King helicopters. Today, maintenance costs have been relatively high, and the helicopters unfortunately have to be part of the ground due to maintenance. The aim is still to phase new helicopters into the 2011–2014 period. The time factor is decisive for saving lives, and with these grips, the government has secured 24-hour security at all continental bases, increasing service quality and significantly reducing response time throughout the country. This government is actually saving lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1481	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1484	I want to address a matter that is very important for today's Norway, namely how to recruit more people with a minority background to the police. When every ten Norwegian citizens and every four Oslo citizens have a minority background, it is important that our police reflect this society. A police force with all of Norway’s colors represented will enrich society as well as the police. I'm aware that Police Norway is making an effort to recruit more people with minority backgrounds. This effort, however, needs to be stepped up. Unfortunately, there are too few policemen with a minority background. In my opinion, the police have to use more channels to reach young people with a minority background. In fact, the best means would be policemen who themselves have a minority background. Here I refer to Iman Lotfi, a police student in his third year at Police College. She was contacted up to several times by young girls with a minority background during her period of practice when she was out on the street and patrolled, writes the Daily Newspaper today. Advice efforts need to be reinforced, and more efforts need to be made to reach young people with a minority background. A good measure will be to move the Police College to Groruddalen how many people with a minority background live and work. Seeing the police in a non-dramatic situation, meeting police students in the café, at the store, at the Post Office, passing the Police College every day, etc. will increase interest in becoming a police officer. I believe the police have to be careful to blackpaint their profession too much. This can lead to poorer recruitment of both the majority and the minority population. The police are doing a great job. They have a very important function in our society, and they have reason to be proud of their profession. So I'm going to use the last 45 seconds to respond to Ørsal Johansen's alcohol policy ointment. He and his party are for the free flow of alcohol. That's what we see in the budget -- the 670 million kittens. kr in the alcohol levies. But before he brought this ointment against me, he should have talked to someone who's ruined their lives because they don't have full control of their alcohol consumption. All experts also believe that access is related to use and consumption. He should talk to children who have parents who abuse alcohol, to see what consequences it has for them. He should talk to those who are exposed to blind violence, as very many intoxicated people practice against innocent people around him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1497	Initially, I would also like to say that I think it is very positive that there is such a great deal of agreement on the long lines of justice policy as what has emerged here, and I look forward to having discussions on important issues of principle for spring, such as the criminal record and the penal code. There are some articles I have to comment on. First to Right Elisabeth Aspaker and André Oktay Dahl. They describe the statements of police organizations as a disaster in the police. At the same time, I record that the head of PEL, Curt A. Lier, has recently said that it was worse before. And that's absolutely right. We have not only continued the police budget that the previous government carried out, we have also strengthened it. The right even suggested a cut, which we turned when we took over. So we've more than doubled the number of students at Police College, we've introduced the DNA reform, we've done a number of steps to strengthen the police situation. I want to challenge to the Right what reactions they experienced at their police mission at the annual meeting of the Joint Federal Police Department just now. Did the Right feel that they had credibility in their police efforts in relation to the policy they themselves shared when they were in government? So I would like to comment on Jan Arild Ellingsen's contributions to efficiency. He claimed that we want to streamline, and that there is no difference between our desire to streamline the police action and the desire of the Progress Party to streamline the tax rate. But that's a pretty formidable difference. Over the years we've been running, we've increased the appropriations for the police by over 800 million. kr, whereas the Progress Party wants to cut the tax rate by more than 200 million. kr only for the current year. There are two widely differing starting points in terms of efficiency. It will have dramatic consequences not only for the fight against economic crime, but also for the possibility of cross-border drug seizures. It'll put us far back. As far as Solvency Horne's articles are concerned, I would like to point out that the commitment we have made to criminal services now leads to a fall in the prison coating. This leads to a much better everyday life for both the prisoners and the staff in prisons. So I would like to spend some time on Ørsal Johansen's embarrassing explanation of the Advance Party's alcohol policy. I have to see if I can come back to it afterwards. Finally, I would just like to make a recommendation to the Minister of Justice, and that concerns the custody capacity in Central Hålogaland. I hope that the Minister of Justice will be able to assess it during the time that is left of this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1512	I think we've met a sore toe today at the red-green parties. When you use a lot of posts here now to criticise the fact that the Right is too busy with the police situation, I take it with the greatest calmness. It was just to be lacking that the Storting should not be concerned about the situation in the police, about the problems people experience that they have, and that we should not be concerned that we should have a police service throughout the country that actually meets the conditions and expectations we have identified through the police mission message and through the police reform, and that there is actually cross-political agreement in this room. Then the representative asked Anne Marit Bjørnflaten how the Right was met at the Police Joint Federal Assembly. I'd say we got met very positively. It is clear that there will be something else before the police say that there will be enough money, but I feel that the grips that the Right had taken in its alternative budget are actually welcomed. Several civil positions and a central senior policy were in fact among the things that were highlighted, to which it was referred. In fact, we also fully agree with the Joint Police Association on another important point, and that is that we need a larger and more thorough police study to get a decision-making basis that is safer and better than the Manning Committee so far has been able to give us. I must again ask the Council to comment on these new working time regulations. It is not possible that he can leave Stortinget today when we are going to adopt the Justice Budget, without the Stortinget being informed of the outcome of the negotiations that have been concluded, and if he can say anything more about the remaining negotiations that I understand remains when it comes to, among other things. Oslo. I'm convinced that it's possible to make the police more efficient, and I think, in particular, there's a lot to come up with better technological equipment. Right will warn against physically locating the police to fewer and fewer places, with only one result, and that is that the response time is increasing. When you talk to people out there, it's said that yes, we reorganize out of distress, but not out of desire. You don't locate the police in fewer places because you think it's favorable, so you do it because the budgets are so tight. Finally, I have to be allowed to clarify a misunderstanding regarding the police councils. I've never heard of the police councils. I think the police councils are important. What I warned against is that the police councils are going to be a sleep cushion, that just we meet in the police councils, we can lower our shoulders and not be so concerned about whether the police are doing their preventive work. It must be a supplement. The coordination of police councils with regard to prevention at many levels in the community is important, but it is very important that the police are able to fulfil their prevention role even after the police councils have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1527	First of all, I just want to tell the representative, Aspaker, that I have not realized that someone has criticized the Right because they are too busy by the police. However, there are, among other things: I criticized the Right again today for not having enough political courage to admit that they actually also have some of the blame for the situation we are facing in terms of manning. The reason I took the floor was the ointment from the representative Ørsal Johansen. I also got a direct challenge from him. I find it strange to hear Ørsal Johansen's reasoning on smuggling liquor and increased crime and the lack of understanding of the charge and the connection with crime. Research and experience from other countries have well documented that there is a clear link between crime and the reduction of alcohol taxes. That context, I think, is almost impossible to disprove. In this picture, the Progress Party opens its eyes and creates an even more difficult situation for the police. It's a choice, and I respect that. Then I got a challenge about the asylum institute, they thought we were going to be more concerned about it. I believe the government has made a good deal of it and improved it on quite a number of points. Having said that, I still believe – and I think the Government too – that the most important thing in terms of integration and crime is that we still have a good integration, and it can be even better. There is, of course, an entire Atlantic Ocean ahead of the Progress Party, both in terms of action and in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1539	Increased charges create crime and make the smuggler and drug traffickers flutter across the country, said the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen in his inaugural network. Now I did not know that there was a charge on drugs and that that was the explanation. But it's now outlawed. Is the Prohibited Progress Party going to cancel? Let's ask ourselves that. What happened in Finland when the fees were substantially lowered closes the representative Ørsal Johansen's eye completely. Finland’s turning around has also clearly passed the house. They just turned around because alcohol consumption increased significantly, and violence went straight to heaven. We know that there's a connection between consumption and price. And for information: low prices give rise to increased consumption. 60 pst. of those who commit crime, are the effects of drug abuse on the drug scene. 60 pst. of those who perform the selection in Oslo, the Russians. This is, in fact, a clear signal that we still need to have a restrictive alcohol policy, not a release, as the Progress Party here called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1548	I think it is important that we also have an alcohol debate. That's also why the Right has a health policy sample that has come to some conclusions that we should look closely at in the programming process, so that we get a realistic relationship with the alcohol policy. However, I find it strange that this overfocusing on a legal product such as alcohol is underfocused on drugs, for example. The progress party has taken up. I think it's very special that you use all your energy to criticize the Progress Party, and indirectly also partly Right for our alcohol policy. Because what we see is that more and more people don't get help. This government, which is allergic to ‘private’, has not exactly improved its care, and where a whole range of offers are at risk of being closed down or have already become so, because it has ideological barriers to walking. And then comes the proposal on the distribution of heroin. I think it's amazing with a state council that thinks high, but I see that the justice fraction of the Workers' Party has already turned that proposal down, it's not going to be the current policy. But it tells me that you're going to continue with the exact same drug policy you've had every year. There is no discussion about the most fundamental problem of justice policy in Norway, drugs, but it spends all its time on the legal substance alcohol. I think that's special. Then there's been history here. The working party has always been good at writing history. They say it's the winners who write the story. It's not always easy when you lose and win choices every other time. But in any case, in seven out of eight budgets, the Right has granted more money to the police than the Labour Party has ever done. In addition – I know that people are tired of this – suggested an increase in the number of places, 125 in two years, at the Police College. The present opposition politician Knut Storberget, who evidently knew much more than he said, suggested nothing more at the time. When it comes to interpreting the PEL as a truth witness to the government's own policy: there were therefore two police officers per year. 1 000 inhabitants in 2002, now it is 1.8. To put it this way, I doubt the truthfulness of the committee chairman's statement. In addition, PEL clearly stated during the Committee's budgetary hearing that they relied on the reality description of the PF. So, in addition to that, PEL is the one that's taken up with us. that you are not prepared for a new ATB for police lawyers. So I think you might want to be a little bit careful when it comes to using single statements in a national meeting speech as full support for your own real business cut, which is probably going to go further in the police, and maybe the effect is even worse when you get a new ATB for police lawyers. I want to end my speech by commending – not too much, but partly – the members of the government parties in the Committee on a constructive approach to our proposals, even if they do not vote for any of them today. But there is at least a lot of agreement on justice policy, so it's okay to hope that at the Chamber we could agree on support for some of the good proposals that could get the Council of State to work even a little harder and better than he's done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1562	Let it be said right away that I have a great sense of health policy selection in the Right, which has focused very clearly on the Norwegian fight against crime. I hope it gets through. That would be very important. If you look at alcohol against the role of drugs in relation to crime, it is not the drugs that are the big and dominant, as the representative André Oktay Dahl said. 60-70 pst. of the crime of violence occurring in alcohol intoxications. So we have to dry down to make a settlement with the drug that many of us also have legal dealings with, and understand that it contributes to a lot of crime. One of the reasons we have relatively little crime in Norway is that we have had an active charging policy and have a wine monopoly, and we also have other rules that work well. I would also like to take a strong distance from what Mr. Örsal Johansen said, and rather ask him to read the attitude of the Right Health Policy Committee, which has a lot of good in it. With regard to the issue of care in Midre Hålogaland, which has been raised in particular, there is also a matter that I have asked the department to look at. We need custody places there. We've probably got parking spaces in the north, but we need special care places there. And that's why I hope we can take care of it in the future. Then it was said that reorganization in fewer places results in a lower response time. I just want to comment on it. In Follo, where you have this trial project, you're now trying to reorganize to get fewer places. It gives you better response time, because you get another Follo patrol, so you actually have people who are at work, and cars that are out to move out, instead of having a lot of closed offices. So we have to be nuanced about how we measure the police's impact, especially against response time. I would probably prefer a model that gives reasonable access to a loner's office, while we have a low response time. In Follo, we know that the distances aren't that long, so that the model that happens in Follo, it has to be interesting also for a part that's right, that's concerned about getting the most out of the heads. So, the question of the terms of employment of law-enforcement lawyers. It is true, as was said by the representative of Aspaker, that there was a residual negotiation again, so that you are not in port on that issue. It would be nice if I came here from Stortinget's pulpit and said that so much will that reform cost when it is not fully implemented. But I want to promise the Stortinget and also the representative Aspaker that immediately we have an overview of any additional costs – because it is something different than it does for ordinary policemen, it's probably a little simpler in fact, and perhaps something more reasonable – and this is actually in port, I'm not going to hesitate to brief the Storing in the appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1579	First, I want to say that I have registered that the representative Chaudhry has started the election campaign for his candidacy here in relation to more police with a non-Western background. If you read the Newspaper today, it actually says that it is not internal status among non-Westerns to work in the police department. It's a challenge in itself, as Akhtar Chaudhry should take to his environments. Then there has been a focus on the crisis in the police in several posts here today. I have to say that I have been left over by the Council of State, because he gives the same answers. It seems like we're on completely different planets. For reality out there -- we read about that in the newspapers every day -- it's that most people are affected by the crisis. The police are not moving out, the cases are being closed because there is no capacity, etc. That's the reality. PF warned against it last year, and the Progress Party warned against it last year. What's the warning for next year is that it's going to get even worse. It is not useful with the standard response that more students will be trained next year, unless the police have resources and resources to employ more police. I was a little surprised that the representative Bjørnface did not comment on DNA. I also had a little time in my post on it. We had a big debate about the principles of analytical capacity should be state-owned or whether it should be private. About the DNA analysis centre in Tromsø, the representative of Bjørnflaten said in December that it's also about having a place where you can get a second opinion, and we don't have that today. When we read the comments on the government parties about DNA, the arguments are that we need to have more capacity when the police are now going to take more tests, and we don't have that today. We actually have that capacity in Stavanger, but it seems like it's just the location that matters, and just because you've got it in Tromsø, it's okay to use the capacity there. Fortunately, it's only less than a year left for the election. Then it's time we put in place the extra capacity that we already have today, because Tromsø is going to spend many years building up the same capacity that we have over there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1594	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1597	I had no need to say anything if the representative Horne had not taken up this last matter. It is strange that she is trying to reduce an important societal theme, namely the integration of people, and believes that our institutions, among other things. the police, shall be representative in a candidacy debate. I had expected a bigger and better reflection and support from the Groningen representative Horne in this field. After all, we all have a common society, with a shared responsibility for people, including those with a minority background, to enter into, among other things. The police services. I believe that the police are much more deserving that people with a minority background are in the police than the minorities are. They are, too, but I think the police are much more well served that we have a colorful police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1604	The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1607	This is not the time to rush up, but I note that the Council of State on questions about the ATB for police lawyers does not think it is worth informing about that process, not even verbally, when presenting a budget, which is the management tool. I think that's a little bit of a concern. This is not the way to handle the Storting. The obligation to provide information, the obligation to provide information to the Storting does not apply to individual fractions or government lots, as far as the opposition is concerned as to the other batches. If this is the way one intends to align the flow of information to the opposition parties, we have at least received confirmation that, as it has been practiced in the last three years, majority parliamentaryism does not necessarily mean only positive things, nor in the governance relationship between the government and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1614	I record that there has been some interest in the alcohol policy of the Advance Party. I spoke earlier today about the consistency of things. It is clear that we have agreed to lower taxes on alcohol, among other things. because we think today's fee level is too high. So we're going to take the consequences. That's one of the reasons we're strengthening the police. But here's a nuance that those who have attacked us don't take with them. We are followers of the normal use of alcohol as a contaminant. We're to those degrees of abuse. Since it seems like use is synonymous with the automatic creation of social problems, it is tempting to say that we are followers of lower car charges. Does that mean that we automatically open to people breaking speed limits? It's, in my opinion, a fantastic logic of the majority that's completely non-substanceal. Then I see that the Council of State is talking about he has fulfilled the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. Then there are two possibilities: either the level of ambition of the government has been incredibly defensive, or it has been set so low to check how far you have reached. For reality outside the audience and those affected today are miles from what the Council of State describes. Reading newspapers! Look at the news! Come on! I have said that I would like to see a particularly positive description, for example. by Police-Norway. You'd like to boast of multiple students' recordings. Should those in need of help today wait until 2011? Is that the solution to the red-green government? It takes three years to train more policemen. In that case, you live in an illusion, with respect to reporting. I believe that much could have been done. I see that the Council of State was at the national meeting of the PF and turned around with 52 million. kr. I guess that's below 2 million. kr per. police district. It is very possible that police force comes out of it, but it is, with respect, to report, not particularly impressive. It is possible that the Council of State is impressed by itself in the mirror, but there can't be many others who are particularly impressed by it. Otherwise, I will join those who say that there is a great deal of consensus in the justice debate in Norway. If we take 5-10 pst. on both sides, the shades we disagree with. I think that's good, because it's kind of a quality sign. If there was no disagreement, the debates would have become all the more boring. In this way, I am pleased that we have political disagreement, because that is what creates dynamism, it creates politics, and that is what is the basis for elections – and soon that is the choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1623	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1626	I feel that the opposition is trying to create a picture that it is only now that we have addressed the manning challenges of the police. It's completely wrong. If the representative of Ellingen has not found out, for example: has been a stepping up of the number of police students over the year, which leads to more than 100 more police students coming out next year, I think it's sad. To the representative Horne, it could be that the reality of Horne doesn't match reality. I also want to comment on Horne's statements about the DNA bet. I was very surprised when I heard it, as far as I can remember, it was a unanimous committee that pointed to the need to build an environment in Tromsø. One of the reasons was that we also wanted to build up an offer where you could have a course of education in parallel with building up the analytical capacity. I wonder if this is completely new signals from the Advancement Party regarding the DNA bet, which we have previously agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1635	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 971]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1653	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1671	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1689	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1707	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1724	This is a directive which is a follow-up to the Commission's May 2003 action plan to be included and modernise and harmonise EU and EEA legislation in respect of shareholders' general meetings. These include: is entered here, is that one should be able to vote either as it has been, in his own person or through a representative, or through the use of electronic means. This is a modernisation and a renewal in relation to what has been. Norway has come a long way in this work, and it will be implementing it in a way that makes the whole EU subject to legislation. This facilitates the ability of shareholders to be active owners of companies even though the geographical distance between the shareholders and the owners is large. As I said, this is something that Norway has come a long way with, and now the whole EEA is becoming part of. It is worth noting that there is a unanimous committee in favour of the suspension, but the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right believe that it should have been clearer from the text of the proposal that the legislative changes necessary as a result of the Directive will only have an impact on public limited-liability companies listed on regulated market places. One could thus have avoided any misunderstanding that all public limited-liability companies are affected by the proposals contained in this Directive. These members also believe that a change in the law on public shares must make a clear reference to ‘public limited-liability companies admitted to trading on a regulated market’, so that there is no misunderstanding about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1731	The Directive contains rules designed to modernise company law, and it is a unanimous committee in favour of the introduction of the Directive. However, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party and the SV, would point out that shareholders in Norway already have much of the rights deriving from the Directive, but that the Directive provides for a slightly more detailed regulation of the rights. However, the possibility for shareholders to participate in the general meeting under the Directive through the use of electronic media involves an important change. This change strengthens the ability of shareholders to participate and to exercise influence at the general meeting. The majority of the Committee refers to issues relating to the requirements accompanying the Directive which have been raised also with regard to public limited-liability companies which are not listed on the stock exchange. We have then pointed out in our note that this has been discussed in the Letter of Consultation of the Ministry of Justice of 4 July 2008 on the implementation of Directive 2007/36/EC in the Law on Public Shares. This issue will therefore be addressed in the context of the odelstungsproposition dealing with that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1740	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1756	This matter concerns the suspension by the Judicial Committee of consent to the approval of Decision No EEA. 58/2008 of 25 April 2008 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2007/63/EC of the requirement for a report by an independent expert on the merger or fission of limited liability public limited liability companies. It is a unanimous committee that is in favour of incorporating this Directive. The implementation in Norwegian law requires amendment of the law, cf. The second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The Committee requests the Storting to agree to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee. The Directive introduces a new paragraph. 4 of Article 10 of the Directive on the merger of limited liability public limited liability companies, which derogates from the requirement that independent experts review the draft terms of merger and draw up a written report to shareholders. The exemption shall apply in cases where all the shareholders with voting rights of the companies involved in the merger agree to that effect. The requirement that an independent expert review the draft terms of merger and draw up a written report to the shareholders has been implemented in Norwegian law. It will be necessary to introduce an exemption from the requirements for cases where all shareholders with voting rights in the companies involved agree to do so. In April 2007, the Ministry of Justice sent the Commission’s proposal for a directive to be consulted and promoted its own pro posal with the necessary legislative changes, as set out in paragraph 1. Ot. pp. No 78 for 2007-2008. The directive will not have any financial or administrative implications for the public. However, this would allow for some simplification for the companies in a merger situation. The Committee approves the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2007/63/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 November 2007. The draft opinion of the Committee was forwarded to the Foreign Affairs Committee on 4 November 2008. The Foreign Affairs Committee informed in letter of 12 November 2008 that it had no comments on the draft.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1775	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1791	We're about to deal with St.meld today. No 22 for 2007-2008, on social security. First, I have to record an incursion on page 38 of the setting, where it says: ‘The Committee also considers that the experience gained in setting up the Joint Emergency Response Centre in Drammen must be evaluated before proceeding.’ The correct one shall be ‘a joint location of the Emergency Notification Centres’. St.meld. No 22, on social security, in my view, is a very comprehensive communication. The notification is very important and contains key questions on how to coordinate and strengthen crisis management and plan for accidents and disasters at national, regional and local level. That's why we believe that it's a shame that we've been working on this message, that it hasn't received even more attention. Because I'm absolutely convinced that the themes mentioned in the message had earned an even broader societal debate. The most central elements of the message are: strengthening and transforming civil defence climate problems, which are becoming more and more relevant here also in the country the legalisation of municipal emergency response obligations bet on non-governmental organisations NVE as nationally step-by-step on helicopter bases I am at least very pleased that the Government with this message has raised the climate threat as an ever-increasing threat to our society. A survey last year showed that eight out of ten Nordics believe that they can be affected by a natural disaster. Most people experience this as more likely than being exposed to avian influenza, food crisis or a terrorist act. Why? Yeah, I think people are smart. They believe in researchers, who say that global climate change also affects nature at home, that greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere affect the temperature of the air and the sea, and that any increase in temperature affects ocean currents, winds, rainfall and much more. For this reason, most people think that there can be a link between climate change and, for example, climate change. The flood in Drammenselva last summer, or prolonged drought, which caused us in the South to get the largest forest fire in the country since World War II. It is soon just the Progress Party that does not believe in the climate scientists. Rather, they listen to Swedes who say that the United Nations Climate Panel does not know what they are doing. They refuse to take reality because we don't have all the answers – yet. The working party has a completely different angle of incidence. We believe that climate change is a reality, that it does not disappear by itself, and that we need to act now to minimise the consequences. I think the government has made this important big message clear. Ensuring social security is not just about climate change and natural disasters. It's not just about dealing with events and crises quickly and efficiently. It is also about preventing events and crises. It is about preventing action against key social institutions and terrorist attacks on Norwegian soil. All public agencies are responsible for preparedness, security and crisis management in their own area, and this principle is important to maintain. No one is better suited to dealing with a pandemic than the health sector, and no one is better suited to preventing power failure than the power sector itself. However, when a crisis arises, it is essential that communication between the different levels of government is speeded up. I am therefore pleased that the Government is developing the new common communication link between emergency situations, and that this new emergency network can also be extended in the long term to include other actors, such as those involved. non-governmental organisations and civil defence. This will provide an important cross-sectoral opportunity for communication that is crucial when accidents and disasters occur. It leads me to work with a common emergency number for the emergency situations. This issue has been widely discussed in the Committee, and there has also been a significant focus on it during the open consultation, and not least in the media. It is a unanimous vote by the Committee on Emergency Numbers. There are good reasons to think that it can be easier with just one emergency number, for example. 112, which is what is used in many countries in Europe. At the same time, it is important to listen to the views of the institutions on this. It's especially AMK headquarters spokespersons who think we're going to get a worse service by bringing the services together into one number. The Committee therefore considers that this should be given considerable importance. It is also the case that the Government continues to work on this issue and, in this context, an inter-ministerial sample has been set up to make its recommendations during 2009. In addition, it will be important to gain experience from the Drammen co-location project. The Committee therefore asks the Government to return to Stortinget after further investigations have been carried out. I will also today boast of the efforts of the volunteers in rescue work here in the country. In one accident after another, they work side by side with the Civil Protection and Emergency and Rescue Service. We saw it in Upper Oaker last summer, and we saw it in Ålesund in March. We can't make it without them. I therefore think it is quite appropriate that the government went in to double the grant to the volunteer organisations in the rescue services in the current year and to increase the rates of participation. It also has its own professional indemnity insurance covering training, exercises and actions. The Committee is committed to extending as far as possible in order to maintain the spirit of vigilance that prevails among these organisations. In the years to come, it is necessary to focus on incentives to ensure recruitment and, in particular, to ensure the high level of competence of voluntary organisations. Another important area that will strengthen the role of volunteers is that they have a place in the HRS/LRS context. These recommendations have been endorsed by an overall committee. I think I have the whole committee behind me when I say that we can't strongly emphasize the important role that civil defence has in its function as state resources in the event of accidents and disasters. In this context, it is important that civil defence has the clothing and equipment necessary for them to do a good and professional job. In fact, civil defence is increasingly used as a resource for emergency and rescue operations, and the Government has also implemented an adaptation of the crew. These are measures that we all fully support. There have been difficult discussions in the Committee on the location of civil defence competence centres. The Working Party believes that these centres should be used mainly to meet the needs of civil protection, but that it is also important to maintain the centres of preparedness and competence that can be used by both the public sector, the rescue services and industry. The working party and SV therefore do not go in to co-locate Vagle clay in Sandnes with Starum, as proposed in the message now. In our view, it has been demonstrated both from the county council in Rogaland and others that there is actually a real need to keep the camp where it is today. Finally, a little about municipal fire protection and HV. The Committee agrees that, in some respects, it may be appropriate to establish intercommunal fire protection and that overall, it will provide better protection for the inhabitants than one fire protection in each municipality. One problem, however, is that fire protection in the small municipalities is becoming more expensive by merging. The Committee therefore asks the Government to attempt to in some way stimulate the merging of several small municipal fire protection systems. Home protection is today a major and important resource for emergency and rescue situations in the event of accidents and disasters. HV assists several times a year with crews and resources in large and often complex accidents and disasters. Over the last few years, HV has been supplied with equipment that can make them a very important resource. However, I am somewhat concerned that the threshold for requesting assistance from HV seems to be somewhat high, and that this is because there is a lack of understanding and interpretation of the aid instructions. The Labour Party will therefore work to ensure that there is a more unified understanding locally and regionally of when you can ask for assistance from the HR, so that once the accident has occurred, you are aware of the resources you can claim. The case has also been dealt with by the Judicial Committee. There have been some comments, and I expect you to explain them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1867	There is a great deal of consensus in the comments on the Social Security Communication, and there is every reason to rejoice that there is a great deal of consensus about what has now been put in place and that we are going to have a good stake in social security. The Christian People's Party is committed to this with the place of non-governmental organisations in the field of social security. Here, there is also reason to boast of what the Government has now provided by increasing funds to non-governmental organisations. But the Christian People's Party questions this with the emergency network. There is no clear indication that non-governmental organisations will also have access to the emergency network. In the financial situation, we have put forward proposals for tax exemptions for gifts to non-governmental organisations and also for VAT exemptions for non-governmental organisations, which will significantly strengthen the economy. Will the Workers' Party go in for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1876	As far as the areas covered by the representative Sahl are concerned, the areas covered by a budget debate and the Ministry of Finance are concerned, so we have not discussed them when we have discussed this communication. The more this message goes on overall action and how we can coordinate and get an effective rescue and emergency service here in the country. With regard to the areas covered by the representative here, I believe, as I said, that they belong in a budget debate, and they were also up when we debated the state budget a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1881	Signe Eye does what most in the Workers' Party do: they do a big number of that in the Advance Party we do not necessarily lay down what we call flat for the claims made in connection with climate issues. It obviously does the Working Party. But I notice that Signe Eye in its argument is constantly using the words «we believe», «it can be» and «possible». Then I wonder, since she is so sure about this question and believes that the Progress Party is so completely wrong: what does she know about this that we do not know? I can almost ask: Has she solved the climate question? So she's basing herself on a lot of things that she probably can't answer, and she thinks we're supporting the Swedes in Sweden. I do not think that is a particular parliamentary presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1888	When I say that ‘we believe’ – and perhaps that’s exactly what I’m saying – it’s because we’re not sloppy in all areas of this case. But there's so much pointing towards climate change being big, going to be big and going to be even bigger if we don't do anything about this, so we're taking the problem seriously. But if you read the whole setting, you can clearly see that the Progress Party has major problems. In some areas you leave the comments, in some areas you're inside the comments, because you don't really know which side you're going to be on. The impression we get when reading the whole setting is that it's kind of starting to slow down, that you also want to be part of the comments and recognize that climate change is something that takes us into account, and something that we have to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1895	Then I would like to ask, where are we going in and out, which Signe Eye clearly points to? I don't know where we go out and into the notes. What is it she leans on when she is so sloppy about what the cause of these climate change is?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1900	I can't start reading the whole setting, because it's pretty long, but it's only in one place you go out, and in all the other places where we point the climate change, you're in with us. That's exactly what I'm saying, that we're not obtuse, but there's so many signs that we have to take this seriously. We have so many researchers, and also the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, to support us in feeling quite confident that this is something we need to take seriously. That's what you do in this message as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1907	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1910	The Progress Party is concerned that our society should be as well equipped as possible to deal with unforeseen disasters and crises, be man-made or have other causes. The Progress Party has been and is committed to ensuring that both defence, police, health and other public actors have sufficient economic conditions to ensure the security of society. It is important that routines and other formal cooperation be developed between the different social actors, so that our overall preparedness is addressed in the best possible way where it is needed. Formal cooperation between different public institutions, such as defence and police, is becoming increasingly important in a world where threats and challenges often change character. The Party considers that the National Safety Authority, the NSM, has a special function in this way. With the dependence we have on ICT in our society, it is particularly important that we are prepared for Cyber Warfare and other threats to critical infrastructure. In this way, we want the Government to develop a national strategy to ensure that the country is the best equipped for a possible Cyber Attack. That is why the Progress Party in its alternative budget wants to increase the allocation of NSM considerably. The Progress Party is also concerned that organisations such as Home Affairs and Civil Protection are being adapted to the new threat images and that closer cooperation between these organisations is being started. Civil defence has shown that they can provide high levels of competence beyond the borders of Norway as well as Home Security through the service providers in Afghanistan. Civil defence, like the Home Office, needs a local connection in order to have the necessary local knowledge within its core areas of responsibility. The Progress Party therefore wants to maintain today's centres of expertise both in Trondheim, at Starum and in the Vagleleiren in Sandnes. The Progress Party hopes that further work on increasing awareness and coordination on social security will be fruitful and that it will lead to a more robust society in view of various threats to our society. St.meld. No 22 for 2007–08 spans a very large range, among others. preparedness and crisis management at the central level, preparedness at the local and regional level, the NVE as a step-by-step management body, natural events, loss of critical social infrastructure, pandemic, terrorism and other security-threatening activities, accidents with dangerous substances, challenges in the north, electronic communications, satellite communications and navigation, power, water and sewerage, oil and gas, transport, banking and finance, food supply, cultural memories and symbols and cross-sectoral instruments to ensure critical infrastructure. In addition, there are rescue services, emergency facilities, civil protection and support systems for rescue and emergency situations. If not enough, defence assistance to the police, civil-military cooperation in operations outside Norway and, even more so, civil protection cooperation in NATO and international crisis management. So it's a large area. This means that we could have debated this matter all day if it had been possible – and each chapter is important. One thing that the committee had at the hearing, which was discussed, was a common emergency number and a common emergency call centre. One was for this or against this. Now the Stortinget will not take a decision on this matter yet, but the Stortinget will be brought to the attention of the case in an appropriate manner after further investigations. This sounds reasonable, and the Progress Party accepts it. In this context, it is important to listen to land that has this system and that knows how it works. Otherwise, there are many things you can talk about today. In its comments, the Progress Party, together with the Right, has called for an investigation and monitoring of how the police reserve can be used in a better way than is the case today. We believe that an enhanced police reserve used correctly can constitute a significant resource for society in a crisis situation. You can continue with the Civil Defense and the need they have to modernise. Civil defence needs to adapt to current and future needs if they are to be able to perform their function as a reinforcement resource in a relevant manner. There is a great need to replace old equipment with new equipment that matches the challenges of civil protection. Another theme that can be mentioned a little bit more about among many others is our water supply. This is vulnerable in many places because of old pipes and an infrastructure that can easily turn out to be large populations in the event of sabotage, accident or disaster. I would then like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1937	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1940	During the hearings of this communication, there was one dominant case, and there was the introduction of a common emergency number. This issue has now been removed from the controversial sphere by the Committee's desire to gain experience from the co-location of centres in the Drama. It is true, then, that the rapporteur says, that there is every reason to complain that there is no public attention to anything more than this. I agree with her that this is an important message, but it does belong to one of the many laws of politics that when there is broad consensus, there will be no great attention. But I want to commend the case rapporteur for having just seen the possibility of dragging this case up to such broad consensus as it has become, and I think it is a considerable strength. But there are still some important questions left, and I want to underline some of them. One of them is the comment made by the Committee on the coordination responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice. The National Audit Office has pointed out significant weaknesses, and I would like to stress the need for them to be corrected and that the result must be reported back to Stortinget. Otherwise, there are some things that are quite clear after the work on the message. One of them is the significance of the Civil Defense. I say with little self-criticism that I think too few of us have taken the tasks of civil protection and the framework conditions sufficiently seriously. I think we have to find out that the civil defence has been run quite a long way down in terms of appropriations, something like that. has been expressed in almost elementary equipment deficiencies. It cannot continue. My faction in the Defence Committee may take a modest step, with, however, a grip, in tomorrow's position on the 2009 defence budget, where we propose adding 20 million. kr for protective clothing. I believe and hope that this can be followed up in the 2010 budget by adding more funds to the Civil Protection Agency. We just need to take this more seriously. When it comes to the issue of competence development, I would like to refer to the comment on the right in the setting. We want a comprehensive impact and cost analysis. I have to add that there is in this that we do not now want to make any changes to the existing centers until we have received such an overall review. That means that, even if we are not the proposers, we will, in a subsidiary way, join the proposals of the Progress Party, No. So 1, because we don't want any changes here until we get this review. So I want to say quite briefly that I think the question of terrorist threat is something that should be raised. I'm sitting with a bit of a nervous feeling that in Norwegian society we don't take the terrorist issue seriously enough. After all, we were reminded that this is a global phenomenon, most recently in Mumbai, where, according to the press, it was actually on the verge of a Norwegian citizen being hit. Too many people here at home probably have the feeling that terrorism, as well as American concern, is linked to 11 September 2001. But we should remember that in the years that follow, this has hit Europe and other parts of the world repeatedly, and we have no letter that this can't either hit us here at home or affect Norwegian citizens and interests abroad. That is why it is necessary to keep this high on our agenda. With regard to these, I would just like to make the following brief comment: we do not take a position on what is said about the plan law, because that matter is under consideration in another committee. In terms of the police reserve and population alerts, where the Right takes hers, a later speaker will come back to this. But I want to link some comments to these on climate, hoping that this is not a private settlement between the two vice-chairmen of the committee, but that it is possible to participate. I have a little difficulty in understanding the comments of the Progress Party. I see that the party goes out of the comment on the general concern the Committee has, but there is a strong commitment to the concern about the environmental challenges in the north, in the Arctic region. There is a great deal of concern that the effects will be significantly faster than in the global climate. It is referred to as ‘a threat to people’s livelihoods and to coastal communities in the north’. This is quite strong – and I get to say quite welcome – recognition from the Progress Party. If you're going to interpret this in a very friendly way, it's a good thing that the Progress Party has realized that if they've ever thought about it in the vicinity of the government offices, they're going to have to accept – unless they're going to get a clean majority here in the Chamber – the climate agreement in Stortinget as a job prerequisite for the government that had to come then, yes, before you even start negotiating about anything. This is probably the glide flight that the Progress Party here is about to take, and I would like to welcome the glide flight. In the case of proposal No: 2, from the Progress Party, I'm kind of in the mood for it. I perceive that the comments of the government parties far on the way answer the problem that has been raised here. It is not that some of us have any problem stressing that there must be extensive plans against the danger of a cyber attack, but the Stortinget should not, of course, open doors, which we may have had a tendency to do. That's why I didn't want to support this proposal. But I hope it will be possible during the treatment here in the hall to come to a reasonable agreement on what we are facing, and then, as I said, without the need to open doors. So, finally, I would like to stress the Committee's comment on the rescue helicopters. Because there's no doubt that this is expressed a lot of concern. I must honestly say that I have probably always been strongly in doubt about what makes sense in the new round of government has decided to go. I'm not sure if it's well-founded. What we know, at least, is that it takes more time. This means that we are hanging on to today’s Sea King helicopters longer than necessary – and a unanimous committee writes that they are ‘approaching to outage and are expensive in maintenance’. We know at the same time that they have a limited range of options. That is why I stress what the committee says, that the acquisition of new rescue helicopters must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1964	I had actually thought that this would be a debate between the two Vice-Chairs, but since the leader has thrown himself in, I could imagine making some arguments in relation to what he said. He categorically states that the Progress Party does not actually understand this – that is my impression. But when I read in the setting, on which the right has also been involved, it says that ‘climate change can pose a threat’, that it can ‘cause’ and that it ‘may be climate-related’. How, then, can the chairman of the committee be so sure that it is the way he would clearly give the impression? I read on page 33 of the settings under the Risk, Threat and Vulnerability Image.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1978	First, thank you very much for allowing me to take part in this debate. I had hoped that Width would now confirm that he is about to start the glide flight towards government cooperation, but I understand that he is not – and that is in itself okay enough for me, I guess I have never concealed that. As far as the substance itself is concerned, I would just like to stress that the Party of Advancement itself, in the Commentary on the Arctic, uses the word ‘can’. I believe in many ways that that makes sense, because of course we lack some knowledge in this area. But the point is that even if we lack knowledge, this must not prevent us from acting. If we don't, we're going to cause irreparable damage to the planet and our environment. That's what's been under the climate agreement, and that's why it's so important to do it. I hope that the Progress Party will not sit still until the crisis is already irreversible. It's come far enough as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1987	No more people have asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e1990	This social and security message has the sub-title ‘Cooperation and coordination’. We know that we spend a lot of resources on social security, but if there is good enough coordination, can we always ask questions about – organise this in a good enough way? The previous social and security message was entitled ‘Society security and civil-military cooperation’, and that debate was not least marked by the terrorist threat, which Petersen also addressed as a topic. There is no doubt that we then found that the fight against terrorism is a civil task. Of course, this is also a police task. So we've got that pretty good in place. So there's no doubt that climate is part of social security work. If we go to Sweden and look at their ‘defence preparation’, and if we go to the United States and look at their threat pictures, the climate is obviously on the top ten list. It's clearly fixed for everyone. We know that this also results in local decisions across Norway, for example. where to place a hospital. Dry a place a hospital on the edge of the beach? It doesn't. In Molde, a hospital moved ten kilometers just because one didn't dare lay it where it could be a river wave. Moving it to which it may be placed in case the sea level should rise. We know that there are a lot of people who need to make sure that the Norwegian people are safe, and we've built a lot of resources over a long time to get this done. But is the cooperation well enough, and will this be coordinated well enough, so that the resources benefit people? A big event that we had here in Norway a few years ago, one could sum up like this: Why didn't nobody call the police officer in Troms? It was an electron sac. The police officer acted as a little confused. What people left behind with the impression was that here it wasn't coordinating well enough. Here was a little uncertain about who was responsible. No one was in doubt that this went up to the highest level in the country – no doubt about it. At the same time, one wouldn't do things more politicized than good. But we should be even better at making the best use of resources. We have also seen in smaller local rescue operations that the relationship between the Home Office, the Civil Defense and civil organizations has been a little unclear. The various actors have our doubts about their role: Should we be there? What time are we going to enter? Who's in charge of this? We know that we are capable of this in connection with the role of the county councils and municipalities – but have we done enough practice on this, and are there clear enough legal backgrounds to make the best use of resources? We've seen some examples that we can get even better at this, and I fully trust that the Council of State is doing the best he can to get this done. As the message is now leading, there is nothing to prevent the best from happening. But here one must also assume that it is the local self that needs to know what to take responsibility for, so that we keep up the so-called subsidiarity principle – that all crises should be interpreted at the lowest possible level. Then we know that the principle of liability and equality are fundamental. There have been no changes. Here are good opportunities for those who want to do what they can locally. We know that the climate also partly plays in relation to this with race. We have major challenges in More and Romesdal, not least in the municipality of Stranda. Here we monitor the situation. We're telling people. We've had a big exercise, where the Council of State and several others were present, so that through it we give security to people, that we're actually trying to follow along. If the major crisis should occur in the Great fjord, we know that we must be able to evacuate, and then we must be able to alert. But we're up there. We've cleared the money that's going to be going to, and we've got to some kind of national racial protection center when it comes to that type of race. That one now also goes in and says that the NVE should be responsible for it, we are very satisfied with it. And then we're going to think that there might be something to pick up in the planning and building law, because the old people, as we say where I come from, didn't build where there was a danger of race. They didn't build where there was danger of flooding. We may have, with our technological advances, gone a little bit 'in spite of' nature, plus that nature behaves more extremely now than before. It is important to get a thorough treatment of this in the municipal etats, so that one does not build where one knows it can get flamm or race. That's what I think this message is adding in a very good way. When there's a common emergency number, I'll say briefly that we from SV's side are very positive to it. Once again, it is a matter of being able to use resources for the common good. This must be possible. We're recording the recordings that came from some of the health services. Now, if we wait for the job selection, we'll see if we can make the best decision to make the best possible use of resources. So I'm going to say in the end that I'm very happy that we've got a common note about civil-military cooperation -- again, exploiting resources in Defense and between the civil here at home, in total defense, and of course out in international operations. We see that what is happening in Afghanistan may be the beginning of coordination between aid organisations – national and foreign – in order to have good relations between the military contribution and, of course, police and assistance organisations. Here we can do something ground-breaking. That's why, of course, it's home in a social and security message, because it could be an increase in security both for the civilians in the countries we're in, and of course for the civil and military personnel from Norway that's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2018	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2021	The government parties, including SV, are in favour of a co-location of the Competence Centre at Granåsen at Trondheim and the Competence Centre at Starum. I thought that SV was for a strong and strengthened civil defence, and that they would not go in for anything like this. It's said a little bit about economics, but there's an unrealistic economic gain in this, and it's probably not all about money either. So I'm a little surprised that SV is involved in that co-location.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2026	Co-operation, coordination and – in the case mentioned by the representative of Bredvold – co-location can help to strengthen civil defence. So we're going in for that piece. Then, of course, we'll wait for the fire reports, including the fire reports. what is to happen in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2032	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2035	For the Christian People's Party, it was important that the coordination responsibility for the civil security of society was added to the Ministry of Justice and Police. This coordination responsibility was made clear and strengthened, inter alia, by: the establishment of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and by providing the National Safety Authority with a professional reporting link to the Ministry of Justice and Police. The coordination role shall now be clarified and defined in a revision of the guidelines and the role of coordination shall be strengthened. That's good. The good emergence of voluntary organisations has long characterised Norwegian society. Norway has reached 4.7 million inhabitants. Norwegian voluntary teams and associations have three times as many members. Unfortunately, in general, the Government is doing too little to reward and encourage the enormous idealism and spirit of virtue that exist in the Norwegian people, despite the fact that volunteers constitute a significant resource in Norwegian society. It is good that a Joint Committee recognises the efforts and importance of voluntary organisations in this context. The voluntary rescue organisations provide with locally known crews and constitute an important element of the Norwegian rescue service. Thus, voluntary organisations are an integral part of the Norwegian rescue service, and public emergency situations depend on their resources. It is good that some action is now taken for the volunteers, but in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we still have some steps to take before we can say we are satisfied with the public contribution to the voluntary organizations. Civil defence is the State's reinforcement resource to assist the emergency and rescue situations in the event of accidents, disasters and crises. In order for civil defence to be able to fulfil this social responsibility, civil defence needs to be upgraded and modernised – and urgently. In recent years, civil defence has not had the money to replace old and worn out material, to learn enough with new crews and to train the entire main effort force. Most of the materials of the Civil Defense Disaster Response Departments are 40 years old. The crew uniforms are well used for 30 years. Then it goes without saying that they are reasonably worn and provide little protection. There is little protective and safety equipment available. Civil defence lacks vehicles, bilge pumps, power units and sanitary equipment. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this situation needs to change. New material must be in place. The budget for the exercise must be increased. Civil defence needs modernisation now. The Christian People's Party will strongly warn against the introduction of a common emergency number. We are aware that an interministerial sample is working on the matter and that there is a need to hear about the experiences of other countries and to listen to advice from stakeholders. But the warnings from the health sector are clear and clear, and these weigh heavily in the decision of the Christian People's Party to take in this area. In the previous Social Security Communication, it was set up to continue testing and to move forward in the process of developing telephone-based population alerts. It is disappointing and worrying that these processes have stopped. The technology is in place. Better alerting can save lives and radically simplify the work of governments in the event of a crisis. This is about preparedness. Typhoon alerts must be supplemented by other population alerts. North areas are subject to increasing international attention due to competition for strategic raw materials. It presents security policy challenges. But we are also facing serious and comprehensive environmental challenges in the same areas. In the long term, these may represent a threat to the life base of coastal communities in the north. The government has recently presented a summary of its Northern Region bet in a booklet which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, contains little concrete information about the North Region bet that was promised. But, right should be right, oil protection in the north is strengthened. A new rescue agreement between Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia has been concluded but has not yet been signed. Continuous bystander of the rescue helicopter service in Bodø is in place. But from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, much remains to be done before we in the area of social security are up-to-date with the major challenges facing the strategically important northern regions. The issue of sovereignty is at a time of increasing international attention due to competition for strategic raw materials such as oil and gas and, in particular, the fight for the huge and renewable fishing resources in these areas. In addition, environmental challenges represent a threat both to people and to coastal communities. There is no need to rest on their laurels in terms of social security in the northern regions. If the Government seriously believes that the northern regions are Norway’s most important field of activity in the coming years, it will have to grow sharply. The first phase of emergency network deployment is under way. That's good. It has been working for a long time to replace the old analogues of police, fire services and health services. The goal is a nationwide connection that can address any communication needs of the emergency services when they need it and where they need it. Modern radio communications are an essential input, whether in the face of organised crime or in the handling of major accidents and complex rescue operations. At the same time, a comprehensive transition from analogue to digital technology provides a historic opportunity to bring everyone together in a common communication network for the emergency and emergency seats. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important on previous occasions to stress that step 1 must be followed by step 2. The whole country, not just the East, needs a new emergency network. In addition, the Christian People's Party has stressed that non-governmental organisations must have access to the same common emergency network. Voluntary organisations rely on a good relationship in order to be an effective and good partner for the public emergency and emergency seats. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important point that organisations are involved, and that they are involved in the work and receive the necessary training, so that they can make use of the emergency network. Climate change can pose a threat to critical infrastructure. We know that climate change will create major challenges in the security and preparedness context of the future. We've seen extreme weather, forest fires, severe breeds and avalanches. This has to be taken seriously. It is good that a coordination group has now been set up at ministerial level, as the Stortinget has previously requested. In the transport sector, climate change is already a challenge, and it is especially in relation to race and pace we see it. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, racial security is a priority area. In addition, we are committed to ensuring good and comprehensive research on the climate change we are facing. In addition, it is positive that the Committee in the configuration includes a point, as was also underlined in the examination of the previous social security message, namely that all departments must follow up, so that each sector reviews its emergency legislation, and improves it where necessary. It is essential that security and preparedness are part of all areas of society. There are many parts of civil society that have much to learn from the Defense in this regard. Finally, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2077	The left does not sit in the defence committee either, so I thought I would say a few words in the matter. I think it is good that the setting is so sumptuous. I also think it is gratifying that there is an overall committee that expresses its opinion on the important role of non-governmental organisations, and for the Left, society is more than the State. I have some comments on that with personal data. We think the IT security is too bad. Combined with the increasing collection of individual data, there is reason to be concerned. Otherwise, it is rather disappointing that the government does not see better use of the police reserve. The left agrees with the Government that the police reserve cannot be used as a compensation for the lack of police. It's not meant to be. The left's view is that the police reserve is a resource for society and not an alternative to the police. It's an addition to just the police. Today, the police reserve is 900 motivated persons. In the past, the police reserve has been used with good experience in, among others: crisis drills. It is the view of the Left that such use can be further developed and that one can use the police reserve for new tasks. We are pleased that it is working for a common emergency number. We've programmed it, and we believe that this will be a clearly simpler system when you need help quickly. Many have been involved in civil-military cooperation. I also want to point out that a greater degree of interaction should also work with HV, where it is natural. Finally, I have some comments on climate change, which initially created a little orthographic debate. It's true that we don't just have a big race challenge. Even with the constant variation in weather types, we will have a major problem with what one might call clay slides, and since there is a lot of settlement near the sea areas, in the marine area, I think this too should be included and assessed. Especially in Trøndelag, much of the population is in the marine area, and there will be a risk of emigration, possibly claygrass, in this area. Otherwise, I would like to comment on the proposals that lie here, that the Left will support proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. We share the same view as the representative Petersen, that it's natural for someone to come back with an investigation. But we are not voting in favour of proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2098	I will first of all be allowed to express my view of the Committee's position as a valuable reading and that everyone has done a good job. That is what I say first and foremost because I believe that this field deserves great and broad political upswing. That's why I also believe that all parties seem to have gone a long way to reach consensus on most points. I think that's very important, because, first of all, this is fundamental principles in relation to some of the most serious events we can face. So I also share the considerations that the representative Petersen made in his statement, that this is in many ways one of the most important political issues we face, but matters that receive very little political attention. We've worked a lot on that in the department and in the government, but we quickly noticed that when the message was to be published, it wasn't a newsstand in the media. It is preferable for the media to report on the track if things go wrong, and then you should have good answers. I believe that much of what the committee – and the committees – draws up here helps us to get better answers. It's important for two reasons. Firstly, we are facing no minor challenges in the area of social security – we are facing major challenges. I am of the opinion that the prevention work we can do, including: on the issue of climate is absolutely crucial. One may disagree with the more factual basis in relation to climate change, but when we discuss it from a societal perspective, we should operate according to the precautionary principle. We should in many ways let the doubt of proof benefit social security. That is why I fully agree with those representatives who have stated that emphasis should be placed on climate as a very important background factor in looking at social security in the future. The first, then, is that this communication deals with very serious situations, potentially serious situations. The second thing that matters to this message and to this treatment in Stortinget, and which also makes it a very important policy, is that – as I see it – both the message and the setting have real political implications in itself that are of great importance to the budget – whether it be civil defence equipment, civil defence force, civil defence organisation, or the focus we give on volunteering, the police, the defence, the Home Office, and the issue of emergency networks, which are important political challenges for us, both budgetary and otherwise. In this way, I should probably have wished we had more attention around this, because it deserves more attention. The teacher can rarely blame those who meet at the hour, because there's a lot of absence, so at least we get to say that those who are here have contributed to doing the job. The main task of the government in relation to this is to prevent. Nevertheless, if events and crises occur, the aim is to deal quickly and effectively with them through the use of society’s national resources, clear structures and responsibilities, clear command lines between civil and military actors – which, in my view, have improved, we have had challenges, but it has improved – and sufficient competence at all levels. This Communication addresses social security with particular emphasis on the major and complex events with a high societal impact, the security of critical infrastructure and the security challenges facing society, and the tools and resources that can be deployed to prevent and manage such events. Here we all have a role to play at the central level, but also at the local level. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring citizens against natural hazards. The challenges of e.g.: in some cases, there will be too large a risk to be managed by local authorities alone. The government has seen the need for more comprehensive, effective and reinforced assistance for tailor-made prevention. The Government therefore proposes in the Communication that state administrative tasks in the field of step-by-step prevention should be carried out by the NVE. The government will also present a proposal on municipal emergency response. This means that all municipalities are now obliged to produce a cross-sectoral risk and vulnerability analysis and a contingency plan that tells which measures are to be taken in different types of crises. I want to add here, in terms of the tasks of the municipalities, that we already see that many municipalities do an unusually good job in crisis situations. Either in the case of floods, races or fires, we have seen significant progress, in my opinion, in relation to how the municipalities handle such tasks. Ålesund – razed in the housing block in the Mountain Road – showed a municipality that, after all, mastered to do many of these tasks together with the state apparatus in a very good way when it was the most applicable. I must also mention that, in addition to ordinary constitutional responsibility, the Ministry of Justice is assigned a coordinating role in order to ensure overall and coordinated civil protection. In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has focused on the means of planning, exercising and supervising the departments in the exercise of the coordination role. As many have mentioned, the Riksrevision has carried out an administrative audit of the Ministry of Justice’s coordination responsibility for social security. It was noted that some departments feel that the role of coordination of the Ministry of Justice is somewhat unclear. The government will, among other things, in the light of this, revise the guidelines for the coordination role of the Ministry of Justice in order to clarify and define the coordination role. Furthermore, the government will strengthen the role of coordination by facilitating to a greater extent the development of national risk, threat and vulnerability assessments that could provide a common basis for treatment. There is also a need to take even more initiatives to clarify responsibilities and identify any grey areas. I would also like to add: daily there is a need to strengthen the operational coordination role of the Ministry of Justice. So let's do that. It is described on page 18 of the message what kind of grip is taken in relation to it, but it is taken with the highest seriousness. It is known that the Ministry of Justice has established the Social Security Coordination Council of the Departments, which is a forum for the exchange of information and experience between departments, and which will also be an important contributor in this way. An important theme of the Storing Communication is the protection of critical infrastructure. The Government will investigate changes to existing legislation to ensure public ownership of the infrastructure in the water and sewerage sectors and will examine the possibility of the Coastal Radio being fully or partially repatriated to the State. The government has described several strategic approaches to reduce ICT vulnerability and prevent Norway from becoming the source of data attacks against other countries. I mention this in particular against the proposal of the Progress Party No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Coordination Committee on Preventive Information Security contributes to overall governance and coordination of work strategy. National guidelines have been provided for public authorities and businesses. The Norwegian Information Security Centre, NorSIS, was established in 2006, while NorCERT was established under the National Safety Authority. These two bodies were set up to follow up the overall effort of the Government to ensure information security. I am busy with this work and will follow it very carefully. I believe that proposal No. 2 is ensured through what is now NorCERT and NSM, among others. works with. I might call on the Progress Party to turn it into a transmission proposal. There's no reason to vote it down for formal reasons, to say it nicely. At least I'm going to do what I can to follow up the work with the bodies that are just working on that kind of critical infrastructure. There's every reason to focus on this. So just a few words at the end: the community is totally dependent on the time and resources that volunteer organizations contribute to. The government will therefore facilitate the involvement of non-governmental organisations as key contributors and complements to public services and the continuation of the best elements of the spirit of good faith in the work of social security. The representative Sahl said something modest that there was some grip, and that's it. A doubling of the support has been provided to the volunteer organisations working on rescue. I believe that this is absolutely essential. It's been silent for too long. The reimbursement rates for voluntary work have increased by 35 pst, and we have ambitions that they should be regularly corrected and not stand still for 8-10 years, as they would have done until last year. And you have to have satisfactory insurance schemes, so that you don't take undue economic risk by participating in this important social work. I think it's important to secure the volunteers. So just short of the rescue helicopter service: the current grips on the rescue helicopter service are crucial both in the case of the on-site guards and the new base coming in Florø, and not least what is now to be done in the process of purchasing new rescue helicopters. I notice what the committee says in that way, and I'll take it into account in the further work. I fully agree with the representative Petersen when he says that over time there has been a lack of political focus on the tasks of civil protection. It's a timely reminder to all of us. I have a weekly review of how much civil defence is out helping people. It's no longer a passive service. There are more and more people involved in very important and demanding operations, both to find people and to save human lives. There is reason to stress the importance of civil protection in the tasks discussed in particular. this message. That is why we have proposed a strengthening of civil protection. It is a message, I have to admit, in order to start purchasing new equipment. There's a need! There we have budgetary challenges that we have to take seriously in the years to come, obviously. But I believe that the change and adaptation that is now taking place, both in the field of civil defence and the conversion of school activities into civil defence, is very correct and useful in terms of modern civil defence. It will contribute to good logistics, in particular on Starum in terms of equipment and its equivalent, and not least in terms of the build-up of skills required. The concept of social security is widely embraced. Today, we need to prepare more for a wide range of events, not just military threats. We need to be equipped for the consequences of climate change, natural disasters, pandemics, accidents with dangerous substances, the disappearance of critical infrastructure, to name a few. Terrorism is also mentioned. Then we are totally dependent on strengthening the good cooperation and cooperation that already exists between residents, households, non-governmental organisations, establishments and businesses. I think we have actually come a long way in this work, but there is still a lot to be done, and the work on the big message and the setting that is now available makes the challenges visible in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2141	The Chairman of the Defence Committee’s comments on the proposal of the Progress Party No. 2 that it was «to open doors», may be at the disposal of the chairman of the committee. Our intention to focus on concerns about ‘cyber crime’ and ‘cyber attack’ is more about a good thing not being said too often. That is what I think the Council of State shares, after hearing him before today when he talked about the education of several police students – more than once. The ambition must be to be as well equipped as possible to deal with the different challenges you face. In this way, I am pleased that the majority has shown that it is expected that the national safety authority will be given the task of continuing to work on this. I assume that NATO will be a heavy precursor in cooperation. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is there any other nation outside NATO with which Norway can cooperate, in order to prevent and meet these types of major challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2152	In the global world we live in, where information, especially via the Internet and other technologies, floats freer and freer, it is obvious that we have a lot to pick up, including from outside NATO. At the same time, we see that the Norwegian justice sector and the Norwegian civil sector generally only become more and more dependent on the flow of information, not only in Norway, but also to other countries. For example: Investigation of very serious criminal acts, we see that systems are now being built up, and if they were to fall out, there would be significant consequences for us. That is why I believe that the proposals of the Progress Party are very good in themselves. But at the same time, I refer to what we write on page 42 of the message, where we actually make it clear that this is a work that we are taking seriously. Here, I don't think it is necessary to construct particular political disagreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2159	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2162	The Soria Moria Declaration stresses that the main task of the Government is to prevent. The communication on social protection concerns, inter alia: on how to achieve effective and rapid management through the use of society’s national resources and adequate competences in all areas should events and crises nevertheless arise. The use of exercises and the creation of a crisis support unit contributed to the strengthening of preparedness. A new emergency network contributed to increasing security for safe communication between the various actors and those responsible for social security. I would like to draw up the Norwegian cooperative model, which multiplies the effort in crisis and disaster situations. Cross-sectoral cooperation is absolutely necessary in order to have a good preparedness for nature and environmental disasters. The volunteers actually play a key role here. It is important to maintain the will for voluntary action. The Norwegian rescue service is organised as a cooperative between a number of public agencies and private and voluntary organisations. By double the addition of 6 million. NOK 12 million. The Government has clearly signaled that the work in the voluntary rescue service is of great value. In addition, we now receive rescue professional advice, which has been requested for many years by voluntary organisations. It is appropriate to praise the Government for its great efforts to increase resources to the rescue helicopter service. The decision on a 24-hour continuum watch was taken in 2002. It's actually so far back. When the red-green government took over in 2005, only the sun had been watching. Today, all the bassanes, Banak, Bodø, Ørland and Rygge, are on guard with games. In order to strengthen preparedness also in the North-West, the construction of a new base in Florø is under way. This base will be in place in 2009 with a watch on hand and a doctor from the start. To keep up the high level, Stortinget is a proposal for an additional 33.75 million. kr for the rescue helicopter service. The time factor is decisive for saving lives, and with these grips, the government has a 24-hour security watch at all continental bases, increasing the quality of the service, and significantly reducing the response time across the country. There will also be work to replace today's Sea King helicopters, and the goal is for new helicopters to be phased into the 2011–2014 period. The Emergency Communications Directorate was established on 1 April 2007 and shall own and manage the new emergency network on behalf of the State. Deliveries agreements have been concluded and the first construction phase of the single digital emergency network is under way. The development of a safe digital emergency link will be an important tool for the security of emergency and emergency personnel and will enable society to cope with crises and major events. It is important here that we also allow volunteers to access and be able to benefit from this emergency network, as several of the previous speakers have done. When it comes to the introduction of a common emergency number, I agree that one should wait for the inter-ministerial work selection to reach its conclusions in the spring. I would like to underline that you do not need to wait for a full evaluation of the trial project that has been started in Drammen, but you should take the experience from there. Strengthening preparedness for terrorism and sabotage operations is important. When we know that Norway supplies large parts of the EU with gas and oil, an estimate of Norwegian installations in the North Sea will be a most topical problem. Increased and enhanced international cooperation on social security and crisis management within the EU, NATO and the UN will also be a priority area. Through a joint analysis unit dealing with the threat of international terrorism, closer cooperation has been established between the Intelligence Service and the Police Security Service. When it comes to the issue of ID theft, which was brought up by the Progress Party, I think this is a theme in the new penal code that comes before Christmas, so we'll come back to that theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2185	Social security is a major and important policy area to ensure that different actors know how to interact when the situation or crisis requires it. Incidents of different kinds, both intentional and unintended, confront the authorities with major challenges. In the case of large-scale incidents, such as terrorism and serious crime, Norway has so far, unlike many other countries we can compare with, fortunately been more cautious from this point of view. In recent years, however, we have experienced several major accidents and natural disasters that have put to the test preparedness and organisation. With its geography, with its topography and with its partly harsh weather and climate, Norway has to assume that natural disasters, such as floods, forest fires and migrations, will occur from time to time. Nor can we exclude major accidents that trigger the need for both military and civil action, such as large hotel fires, oil platform blasts or aircraft and train accidents. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges. We need to ensure good cooperation between civil and military preparedness and that we have structures that work. In order to achieve this, it is essential that social security and preparedness actors are both equipped and trained to work well together when necessary. Over the last two periods, the size has dealt with a number of issues in which social security and preparedness have been the whole theme or a sub-theme. This is an area where there is a broad cross-political consensus on organisation and handling, and it is positive. However, on a couple of points, the government parties and the Right Layer are separating. At the outset, the rapporteur stressed the importance of good communication when the crisis arose. Here the Right Government Party challenges. It's a little bit antiquarian, I'd say, over today's typhoon alerts and that that's all we have to do in the future, because there are other systems that are far more effective and that would be a much easier way of communicating with the citizens. There are modern and effective warning methods, with both fixed and mobile phones. We see that other countries, including Sweden and the United States have decided to introduce alerts to the population by telephone in the event of accidents and crises, and several countries are currently investigating the possibility of doing so. Such an effective warning of the population, using modern technology, could be both a life-saving and harm-reduction drug that the Right believes Norway must also have the ambition to use. Therefore, the right considers that the Ministry of Justice should initiate testing and preparation of requirements specifications for the selection of a modern system of population alerts and return to the Stortinge by case in an appropriate manner. During the exercise Tyr in Storfjord in October, new methods of warning were tested by telephone. A warning system based only on typhoons is, in the Right's view, little forward-looking, and we think it's actually strange when we now get a big message about social security and preparedness for the Storting, because it's not every year or every big period, that we haven't taken into account the need to update and modernise on alerts. An effective warning where people live or are in some way in vulnerable parts of the country is an important element for people to feel safe, especially in areas that are particularly vulnerable to major natural disasters. I'm thinking, for example. in the fjords of the West and North Norway where there is a risk of mountain climbs and where advanced surveillance is in place. From the point of view of a justice policy, it is also important to raise the important reinforcement resource that the Police Reserve represents for society. The right has called for concrete plans on a number of occasions to exploit the resources that the Police Reserve can provide in different situations. But this seems to have been a forgotten resource of the red-greens. The police reserve consists of highly motivated and highly qualified persons who set up when the situation so requires. But it is a prerequisite for maintaining both motivation and qualifications that the authorities ensure a good training offer and that the police reserve is properly equipped. Here's the red-green need to go in the mind box. I challenge the Council of State to turn this message into a turning point, and that the police reserve can hopefully go into a brighter future after that. I was in the situation that I was able to observe the great rescue exercise Barents Resque in 2005. It stretched out outside the Finnish coast, in the Barents Sea, and one was then able to see what demands are made on the crew and on equipment and logistics in a very thinly populated and weather-hardened area. The practice was international, and became a very realistic reminder of what is actually required when accidents and disasters occur in the north. That's why this big message is important, and therefore it's also important that we do everything in our power to look at the overall resources that society has to play on. In conclusion, I think I would like to compare this big message with the importance of wearing a safety belt in a car. If you use it, you're well protected. If you don't, it can go very wrong. I mean, St.meld. No 22 is a kind of society's safety belt. It is important to follow up the notification and it is important that it manifest itself in the necessary decisions and in the necessary appropriations in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2215	The President would like to remind you that the regulatory period is now over, but he proposes that the latest reports be finalised at this morning's meeting. The President will also call for voting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2219	I have to be very short. I think this is a very good message; it is a message that has addressed the climate issues and the challenges we face. Here it is also very well located from the climate agreement. I think the civil defense now has a lot to deal with, and they're going to get new tasks in that context. I just want to grab two things. One is – as has also been mentioned, and as the Committee on the Environment and Energy has been very concerned about – the stability and efficiency of the power supply. It has been pointed out by a unanimous committee that there is a great deal to be done here. Among other things, we have a wire network that is not up-to-date and that is not good enough. We have had events in both Styria in January and the South in 2006, which clearly states that security of supply and security of electricity supply are not good enough. Then I would also be very happy for what is in the position of the Committee on Vagle clay. I take it that Vagle camp is now being maintained and maintained, and that one will also come back to this camp's further fate in the big news of fire safety and in a new civil defence law. It is very important that this camp continues in the form it currently has and is further developed – also in relation to the civil business sector in the area. It is also pointed out by the county and the surrounding municipalities and by the business community themselves how important it is to have this camp here, with the expertise that a person owns to do a real job in the HMS and other areas. So we're very happy about that. In conclusion, I would like to say that with regard to what has been outlined about ambiguity in relation to the different responsibilities, I am pleased that we are now taking it up and making clarifications and clarifying and allocating responsibilities within that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2232	I must first say that it was nice that so many came to listen to my article. I was lucky with it! I will start by thanking the Council of State for a positive feedback on proposal No. 2, and of course I want to turn it into a transmission proposal. Then I am glad that the committee has done such a good job, not least that challenges have been raised with the new rescue helicopters. There I share that path and the direction that the Ministry of Justice has taken. I think it is good that you have ignored the unit helicopter tank. Very familiar, the first of the 90 helicopters should have been delivered four years ago, and no one has seen the spin of a rotor of them yet at least. So finally, the representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, brought up something in relation to coordination in the Rescue Service. I think that's an important area, where you can do an even better job. There, the Main Rescue Center does a fantastic job both in the south and in the north, not least by travelling around and challenging the local rescue centres. They challenge different parts of the public service sector to what kind of tasks they have when crises arise. There's a potential that's not exploited. In this way, I will only end up paying tribute to the defence committee for a well-worked job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2243	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The President proposes that the Stortinget take decisions on today's issues before the end of this morning's meeting, and asks for the Stortinget's view on them. [[Fotation, see page 978]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2253	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2260	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2322	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e2765	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3664	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-12, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 13-16, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 17-21, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 22, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–21 is included in the position on pages 56 and 57, while proposal No. 22 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3698	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3729	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3747	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3767	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit an investigation demonstrating the level of penalties for violent crimes in Norway compared to the other Nordic countries.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that it wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3783	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 14 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3801	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3825	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12 – with the exception of proposal No 8 – from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e3905	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e5842	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 20 November 2008: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments to be made so as to allow the municipalities to introduce rules on the expulsion of persons involved in aggressive and shameful prostitution in police regulations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e5861	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 20 November 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the follow-up of the law with research and evaluation so that the Storting can have its own case brought before it after the law has been in force for two years.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e5882	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of Groningen Bjørg Tørresdal, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted from the meeting of Odelstinget on 20 November 2008: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive plan to step up the provision of assistance to prostitutes, including the establishment of an outreach low-threshold therapy service and the strengthening of voluntary organisations providing assistance to the prostitution community.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e5902	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the Depositary Representative Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 20 November 2008: ‘The government is asking for a sample of representatives from the PRO Centre and the prostitution environment, among other things, to be represented. The committee shall draw up guidelines on social security measures to get women and men out of prostitution in dialogue with those most affected and to involve themselves in the design of the measures.’;» The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e5955	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 is converted into a transmission proposal, and reads as amended: ‘The Government is advised to draw up proposals for a national strategy to ensure that the country is best equipped for a possible ‘cyber attack’.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03.ana.ud109e6001	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
