ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e39	The called alternate of the Busherud County, Hilde Groenhovd, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbräten, on leave from 1 December to 8 December to visit, on the initiative of the Norwegian Embassy in Washington, Norwegian American universities and institutions in Washington and the Midwest of the Workers' Party Group on the parental leave of the representative, Mr Sverre Myrli, from 1 December to 19 December from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on parental leave of the representative, Ms Ulf Erik Knudsen, from 1 December to 16 January; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund For Buskerud County: Knut Gerde For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e99	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Gunn Karin Gjul, for Synnøve Brend Klemetrud, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e110	In recent years, there have been a number of changes in the television market which mean that there has never been greater competition and freedom of choice for us consumers. The establishment of the digital groundnet will provide the entire Norwegian population with a new TV offer during the next year. At the same time, the digital groundline has led to a change in the offer of the other distribution platforms and increased competition. The expansion of the fibre network in large parts of the country has given a number of customers the opportunity to purchase TV subscriptions from fiber operators such as Light and Agder Energie. However, if the customer has many options in relation to the choice of distribution platform and providers within the individual distribution platform, the customer's options are limited because they are forced to purchase channel packages. New technologies enable new and more consumer-friendly solutions. Technology opens up, among others: for advanced two-way communications, which will provide brand-new television services. Mass of non-traditional TV content can be integrated into traditional TV services, such as: by reading newspapers on the TV screen, accessing Internet services, films and more. And you can imagine that the TV channels can be presented in portals, such as websites on the Internet, where the audience can act and consume. What is important is that we do not build structures and regulations that hamper these new opportunities. We must have the aim of constantly facilitating the most consumer-friendly TV market with access for everyone, where the customer determines the seams which product you want, and where the quality is high and the media multiplied widely. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, on 21 October, the Media Regulatory Board presented a new report on the possibility of individual subscription choices in broadcasting and cable networks. This report has now been submitted for consultation and the deadline for consultation is 27 January 2009. The Working Party is pleased that the Government is actively working on these kinds of issues. We do not think it is right to conclude in the question whether there is a need to clarify the principle of open networks until the answers are seen in the consultation process. It is important that we have a good consultation process, where all actors are given the opportunity to make their views known. Only then will the image be complete and the conclusions can be drawn easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e125	Today we are dealing with an interesting, far-sighted and important proposal. The situation in the Norwegian TV market is that we have a few actors who effectively control large parts of this market. This poses competition and consumer problems, and the situation affects quality, content, development and innovation in the industry. To take myself as an example: I have been a Get customer for some years, and I can sign that I am one of the very many who experience the TV suppliers as low consumer-oriented. Suppliers are characterized by the power you have in an oligopoly – a market with a few large providers and many small buyers. When we complained to Get, we have only been told that you can just cancel the subscription – according to a nice customer consultant. The dissatisfaction is mentioned in the representative proposal, and I am one of those who have been dissatisfied with customer service, price and content, with pictures that have been frozen, channels that have not worked half the time and late or absent improvement and repair. Of course, I could choose to switch to the satellite, but I have had a wish for a combined TV and broadband in fiber, and no one offered me before this summer. Fortunately, I have now got a new supplier and have been able to tip Get out. Now it's probably places where Get delivers a good product, but I'm using the home situation as an example. There are some looting and haggling to switch to another TV provider, and therefore there will be a situation in this market that does not exist in other markets. A problem I have had both as a Get customer and with the new supplier are channel packets. I have a wife who wants an animal channel, and myself I want some channels with history. I cannot get this purchased separately, but I have to buy large packages with many channels that I neither want nor have an interest in. This happens despite the fact that everyone – i.e. all but the government parties – have come to the conclusion that it is unproblematic to add that it is possible to buy single channels. The proposers for this proposal believe that opening up the TV networks, cable and fibre will help us to have more effective competition between operators, consumers get more choice, and we get more digital and interactive services than we have today. Of course, the proposers are right. My small private example is just one of infinitely many who support the basis for driving this industry’s players in tighter lines legally – if you want a policy for the benefit of consumers. We believe it is important to give clear political signals about the desired direction on the issue of framework conditions for the distribution of television. Technology makes new and more consumer-friendly solutions possible, and then it does not help to sit on the hands, as the government parties do. If we really mean something with honorary words such as consumer protection, freedom of choice and freedom of expression, it must be consumers themselves who choose the content, not the supplier of a pre-determined selection. Therefore, the cable and fibre-based TV market must also be designed to enable consumers to have a free choice of television regardless of subscription. With this, I would like to mention the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e148	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e151	The right-wing intention of presenting this proposal is to clarify the issue of the opening of television networks – a proposal that has raised considerable awareness. In the public debate and during the hearings on the matter, we have seen clear contradictions of interest between those who own web solutions and deliver content on the one hand, and the pure content providers on the other. We have also noticed that it is among the network developers in particular the major actors who do not want an investigation. It is interesting to note in this context that there are small and medium-sized players who are already based on open solutions and who welcome this case because they believe transparency is the way to good profitability for them as well. Although right, for reasons that I'm going to come back to, we want a media policy based on transparency and availability, we understand, of course, the scepticism the network has expressed. Let me immediately say that of course we believe it should be profitable to deploy networks, and that we want to find regimes where profitable business models can grow ahead of the developers. Examples of this may be subscription schemes, or short and well paid for the transport of the content that goes through the networks. Our starting point is not that we mean to have the answer, but we ask for an investigation because the questions are many and partly unanswered. Our starting point is that there can be no good solution in the long term to add up to business models based on closed solutions. This has been something that consumers have found out because the capacity of the systems has been limited, much as we have had in relation to concessions on the analogue broadcasting networks. Now the technology is where we can gain free access to the digital world. Why should we not then strive to give the audience just that – access to cyber space without restrictions? So far no one has given me any good answer to that. Transparency will obviously give the audience a better offer, but not, as someone has thought, an offer instead of so-called packages. We do not have anything against the packages, but we believe it may not be right that the supplier of the package may demand to remain exclusive. So yes to packages, but we also have to be allowed to go outside the packages, so that we can pick up what we want. An overall industry of content providers supports the desire to investigate the opening of networks. For them, this is about public accessibility. A system in which someone can create private bombing routes without reversional access will over time be conducive to the audience and distort the audience's surface for those who create the content. An open system will stimulate increased production of Norwegian content and contribute to the creativity and innovation of the Norwegian digital public. It serves important media policy considerations, it carries a freedom of expression perspective, and not least hangs up a very important cultural policy back ground dealing with language, cultural development and identity in a digital age. Technological development is at a tremendous pace. As a politician, I'd like to admit that it's demanding to hang out in the swings. Often I think we tend to lie well after development. At the time when it takes to solve a political matter, with all the debates and investigations and proposals, technological development has accelerated and passed us at a good pace. Although our proposal has TV distribution as its starting point, it is based on a fundamental desire for open access – access – as a principle in future digital societies. Through the investigation we wanted, we could have set a course, come in advance of the development and contributed to an exciting direction, as well as giving clear signals to the actors. The proposal is probably annexed to the Minutes today, but I assure you that the matter will continue to exist. The right is going to work on this problem. We do this for consumers, Norwegian content providers and to give Norwegian culture the best possible space in future digital societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e170	A short comment from the Christian People's Party. Olemic Thommessen did well for the background of Document No. The 8th proposal, to which the Christian People's Party has joined with the Left, Right and Advance Party. We thought it was good that the government also gave a more positive opinion on this after a while by outlining the principle of opening the TV network, and I hope that they will bring a case on this to Stortinget. Technology makes new and more user-friendly solutions possible. As time passes, the user hears the experience of getting available package solutions on channels, without the possibility of saying no to some of them. It is quite frustrating that when you want to decide which TV channels you want to enter the room, you have to say yes to an entire package. When users say that they even want to pay more to skip some channels, but they don't have the option because you have to choose package solutions, it's quite frustrating. Even if we know that this is a multi-page issue, it is very important from a consumer perspective to get this well-lit, well-lit, and that we get a case on where the consumer's rights and wishes will come out stronger than they are today. At the same time, it is important to ensure the districts, that one gets good access, good opportunities, the same where one cage in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e179	This is not a matter of package solutions. This is in fact a matter of whether the networks that are currently built out of the private sector could be imposed on an open market. It really looks a lot like what was done when Telenor was converted into a limited company, and it was then opened up to other players on the network that Telenor had received in gift from the state when they became a limited company. That's a pretty parallel situation. I think it's very strange that the government won't agree to investigate this. It's about being involved in technological development, considering what offers people get into their own living rooms. It's not like we're going to steal this network from those who invested in it, and build it. It is a matter of imposing competition, of getting paid to offer the service of transporting data on the network that is already being developed. In the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Left noted that broadband must also be part of this, in order to limit it to just TV is getting pretty fast when we know that broadband is also offered on the same network. If we are to be able to participate in the political regulation of technological developments, it is quite important that we look at how we can offer proper competition on the networks that are already there. It has not been said at once how it should be done, but it is at least quite strange to have a government that will not even investigate it. I see that the companies have thrown themselves into this and have already begun to investigate this for themselves. Telenor has, for its part, made an investigation that was distributed to us yesterday, where they have looked at the consequences it will have for the network they have built for broadband. In the case of packages, I share the objections that the Progress Party has that there is a very poor regulation of the market in this particular area, that the providers are given the opportunity to speak to us as much as possible. Within all other market regulation, such package solutions are not legal, but for some reason they are legal for television channels. But there is a completely different debate that is really not addressed in this matter at all. I expect you to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e192	Norway is today among the world’s best-covered and fastest-developed countries. In our part of the world, only Sweden has more fiber access than us. I would like the development of fibre networks to continue at a rapid pace. It's the government's policy. I would like to refer to the comments made by the majority of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture on the need to eliminate competition in television networks and the comments made by the Committee on Transport and Communications in relation to the work of the Committee on Media Control on individual subscription choices in broadcasting and cable networks, which are currently on the agenda. As I understand the proposal of the minority, several of the questions they address, right naturally, will be included in this work. Having said that, I think that representatives Thommessen, Gundersen and Skovholt Gitmark are raising an interesting discussion, but that the focus on open versus closed TV networks on cable and fibre is the wrong starting point if the goal is to ensure that consumers have access to both sufficient online capacity and the content they want. I think we should rather find solutions that guarantee the freedom of the producer to choose the web services he wants, and at the same time allow web developers to choose the business model they think they can best fund further development of fast broadband networks. Instead, the focus should be to ensure equal management of online content, so that providers do not restrict the freedom of end-users to choose phone services, TV content and other services they want to use over the Internet tariff they subscribe to. The postal and telecommunications authorities have recently produced a report on network neutrality and are now hiring a working group of industry participants to arrive at the principle of network neutrality. I have good hope that the industry and the government will agree on an important principle of network neutrality that ensures adequate choice for the final consumer. It's important. Unless cable and fibre network owners see themselves tending to deliver open networks, opening will require regulation. As I write in my reply to the Storting in May of this year, I believe that the board of directors have the necessary regulatory instruments to intervene if the market does not function satisfactorily. We don't want to regulate unless we have to and can prove that there's no viable competition. Developments so far mean that there is no need to intervene in the broadcasting content transmission market. Builders choose different business models. Today there are already a number of infrastructure providers selling online around the country. They suggest that customers can choose their own main providers for TV content, telephone services, etc. I am sure that these providers have chosen such a concept based on a thorough assessment of this business model versus a model where they sell network access connected with telephony and TV content. I am also sure that competition between different business models is good, and that this has helped us to have many market players today and strong growth in the number of fast broadband connections. Dragging the parallel to Telenor is a little bit strange, because Telenor's network was built out of the community. The size has determined that the expansion of broadband in Norway should take place on commercial terms. So what the Right is at the forefront of today is a socialization for the community of privately developed networks. It is not quite common in this room that it is the Right Party and the Progress Party who are at the forefront of such proposals. Right's suggestion will limit the potential of fibernet developers to get their money by selling subscriptions. Of course, this will lead to a situation in which fibre networks – which is currently taking place at a very fast pace around the country, in fact, so quickly that we hardly have an overview of all the initiatives taking place with fibre networks in rural and urban areas – will most likely stop. And then the question of giving all the opportunity for participation in future digital societies becomes more than word.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e214	As my post certainly showed, I believe that both the government council and the government parties are too defensive in this matter, but I am recording the views that have emerged. Consultations are held and working groups are set up. What is very interesting about this matter, however, is that the professional organisations say that this is fully feasible, while the individual actors of course have doubts about the situation they are earning good money, and that is an easy way to solve it – for their part, but not for consumers. My question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State think that the work on consultations and working groups can be concrete in a matter for the Stortinget with laws and regulations that consumers will notice in terms of increased freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e224	As I said in my main answer, it's not like consumers don't have any choice. The vast majority today can choose between different suppliers of both TV cable, satellite, telecommunications cable and the ground network. If the situation changes so that we see that we need additional regulation, we now have regulatory tools to do so. There will be a hearing in the Media Authority. She has to be finished. How the Government decides to proceed with that work is, of course, not a good position for as long as the hearing lasts. You have to come back to it in your own way, as it is called in the language you use in Stortinget. I would just like to mention that the access regulation for the copper network to Telenor is of course an example of what we can do with today's tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e231	I got a good advice once from Kåre Willoch. He said: Listen to business with the greatest interest, but also with the deepest scepticism. I think that's a good advice. It was said by the state council that she thought that if you opened the Internet, we would get worse. It sounds like she's been listening to business with great interest, but maybe not with the necessary scepticism. Just what we're asking is that we need to know more about this. It is not known that today's business models are those that are necessarily the most profitable. We don't know this, if then the government doesn't know anything more than what we're doing. That is what we want answers to. My question to the Council of State is, if that's the case, what does she base this claim on? Is there something she's gotten from business, or does she know something that we don't know about what's profitable and not profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e238	As I said in my main response, choose one already today different expansion models. There are suppliers of open networks around the country. It's because they consider it a better business model. So far, the government has not seen it as a task to intervene in the market that is. It's a free market. There are very different business models, and the government has also focused on being technology-neutral in the work you've done, insofar as you've put some public funds at your disposal. Some people compare Norway with Sweden, but Sweden decided in 2000 to spend 18 billion kroner on fibre networks, while in Norway we have based ourselves on a market-based expansion. This means that the approach must be somewhat different in Norway than in Sweden, as there are no Community funds — at least to a small extent — used for this expansion. But the advice from Willoch is a good advice in general, that one should also have a certain scepticism. That is why we continue to work on these issues and follow the market very closely – to the extent that one sees the need to enter into regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e245	This is the area where the Government is opposed to regulating a market. It's interesting in itself, and I'm afraid it might be based on not understanding the market. My comparison with Telenor was that the copper was built out of the state, but it was given to a limited liability company, when it became a separate limited liability company. I think maybe we wouldn't have done that if we had known, like today, how important those copper wires are to competition in a lot of areas. I have a question for the Council of State whether it is really unimaginable to see that there is a market here that has developed a network that needs to be regulated. It's very funny to face a red-green government and say that this is a market that needs to be regulated, while the red-green government believes that here the market should be completely free, because there is no one who can make money if you go into and regulate this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e254	Yes, it's a bit strange, because the opposition is very busy with a regulation that can, according to what has been presented by the proposers, give a better offer to those who already have a good offer. The government is busy with the whole country getting a good deal, and then we have to look more closely at what incentives such regulation will give — or take away — in relation to continuing a completely necessary broadband development that Stortinget has said should be market-based and that will give everyone access to future digital societies. So we know that I belong to a party that wants another type of expansion. We want to spend more government money on it. We also didn't want the evolution that one had in Telenor, we wanted the community to keep control of that network. Now more people say it could have been our trick, but that train has gone so far. But at least we have to make sure that we get a development that does not prevent us from accessing everyone to the digital network in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e261	Now I don't think the council should lose the night sleep because she thinks that the Right kind of intends to nationalize someone's network or socialize this business. The question is, when we run politics and when we run governance. Governments largely base their views and interventions on media surveillance and on postal and telecommunications surveillance, which assess the situation as it is today. What we want is to hang up a sign that says something about where we want to, and that's to run politics – unlike running government. The market actors adapt to the signals we give. Should we not hang up a sign about where we want to – the road to a goal? That's what we often call a vision. This vision is that content providers should be free to reach the audience and that the audience should be free to choose. Doesn't the government also think it's a pretty good target? And why won't it help us figure out and give the answers on how we can get there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e270	It's a great target. The government has a definite goal that everyone should have access to the new digital world. It's also a good goal. Then we have to be sure that we do not put obstacles in the way of those who now want to build up so that everyone in the whole country will have access to fiber. Unfortunately, there are not so many people who have today. Internet access around towns and cities is pretty bad, although Norway is far ahead if we see Internet access on a world-wide basis. What's important here is that we have net neutrality. If one is a customer of Get, as the representative of the Advance Party presented to us, one should be able to download services from other providers. It should not be possible to close what technological possibilities exist to do. This network neutrality is the most important thing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e277	I agree with the state council's comment on web neutrality, but it's actually a different debate. I think there is some inconsistency in what the council says, because some web suppliers have developed open networks, while some have not. Those who have not done so are most often in cities because there is a very large amount of milking from consumers. Is it so that the Council of State doesn't think there's any kind of overprice here, because someone has a monopoly on the contact you have in your house? Does the Council of State think that this market is perfectly balanced, so that there is absolutely no reason to believe that there is someone who makes more money than they would have done if they had had a real competition for contact?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e282	I think here's probably where the market isn't perfect. The market is rarely, and the market needs correction and control. Here I believe the representative Skei Grande and I am quite a few, both in this case and in many other cases. I have been busy making sure that the final user is free to choose. There has been a tendency for a supplier-side supplier to try to restrict that supply, i.e., what is net neutrality. We're very concerned about that. When it concerns the market and how it works, it is right that there are different ways to build on. I know personally – as others have spoken about personal experience – local companies that have sewn broadband to households because one has just received the subscription before one has started the development. If you do what is suggested here today, it will block the possibility, because it is about the revenue of the company by selling a package. We need to take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e291	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e296	I am pleased that this proposal is annexed to the Minutes today. Like several speakers here, I find the issues raised interesting. Now the Media Authority has a case out at the hearing that I believe is not irrelevant in relation to this case. I think it would be a good idea to wait for their hearing replies before, if necessary, instructing a government to conduct an investigation. I also think, on the basis of the debate that has been here, and on the basis of the various remarks, that you are not quite specific about what you really want in such an investigation. Should this be done, I think it would make sense that you went out more widely and were clearer about what you wanted to get out of it. So I want to distance myself from what's being said by the opposition here, that this government is dragging and dragging its legs – now I don't remember if it was in exactly this debate it was said, it tends to be the review tone. We already wrote in the budget position for 2005-2006 – and it is included in today’s vote – that we see it. ‘which is important to facilitate interconnection between capacity-exploitation networks and to ensure that competitive service providers have access on equal terms to open, supplier-independent core networks and to access networks. It will limit the need for suppliers to build expensive parallel networks and increase competition in the networks’.» So it's this government's policy that's been adopted by the majority of the population. And then you have to think about how best to do it. I think it's very important that we have open networks, both because it's good for customers, and because it's good for innovation, for innovation, that we open up for more players to have the opportunity to develop products. I think it is wrong to add up to a policy where someone gets a monopoly on operating private networks. I don't want the company you pay your bill to depend on the address you have. I have moved twice this year in Oslo, and have had to change the broadband provider and the TV provider both times because the address does not match the company's zones. That's a situation I don't think should persist.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e315	It is right, as the representative of Wickholm says, that this is a rather complicated and complex field that it is important to look at in an overall context. And that's exactly what we invited you to. I have noticed that the government parties will await the hearings that will follow the media surveillance report. It represents part of what this is about. As you can see, it's all right to push it in front of you. It's also about which whole you want to go into. To the Minister of Transport, I would like to say the following: What we have now seen is that today's way of expanding the networks is actually developing natural monopolies. Part of the private actors that build up are de facto monopolists in their fields. In particular, this will apply in the outlying regions, which I expect the Minister for Transport to be particularly concerned with. Because the profitability there is marginal, there's not going to be competition by someone rolling out networks next to those that are already lying there. This means that when local power plants ally with e.g. Lighting and excavating a cable, there will be no competition in that network. The consequence of the Central Party's government policy in this area is therefore in fact that the free choice and the free access to the Internet world will be reserved for those who live in cities. Those who live in sparsely populated areas are going to get a worse offer in terms of choices. I guess that's something that the Center Party doesn't think is a good idea either. That's why it's important that we set a goal. We have to have a goal in which to advance that the actors can relate to. They need to know that when they're going to spend a few billion dollars rolling out the grid, there's a certain framework for what the performance can build on. Of course you have to make money on it. So do we. But the question is, is it just this one way to make money, or is there actually several ways you can make money? Is it the case that you have to close the door for everyone else to get money, or is it perhaps the case that if you don't let everyone go, traffic in the networks increases, and traffic should give rise to increased earnings? In that case, there's an opportunity that we should go into. What's a little bit surprising is the lack of desire for that knowledge. We do not ask for anything but that this be investigated, that we use the resources that we have in the departmental context, in the supervision, to find out how this can be done in a way that ensures development, but that we also ensure the freedom of access, the availability for consumers and for those who create content, which means that we get the best possible out of the market, for the benefit of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e324	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e340	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e349	The proposers of Document No. The 8 proposal calls for an assessment of the extension of the content and use of police attestations for adults working with children and minors. The proposers propose that the Government should promote a case ‘to extend the use of police attestations to all adults who, in their work, voluntarily or on a pay basis, are in a position of trust and responsibility for minors’. The intention of the proposers to provide security for more than one child is good. The question is how to do it. There are a lot of different measures that could have been discussed here, but I hope the Stortinget will have the opportunity to look at that problem a lot later. The majority in the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV are in favour of this proposal being annexed to the Protocol. The right and left propose that the proposal be rejected. The reason why the Committee's plurality seems to me to be attached to this proposal is that the Government is already working in this area. The plurality of the Committee, all except the members of the Right and Left, refers to the Minister of Justice’s reply that such a proposal was already being heard in spring 2009 and that it will be followed up in the new bill on the processing of information by the police and prosecutors. The requirement for police attestations for people working with children and young people has until now been introduced separately in each area over time, and the majority believe it makes sense that the requirements are now being put into context and evaluated together. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on their side, are skeptical of a bill that will impose a police record on anyone who is going to work, pay or volunteer at some point, with children or young people. It's a fact that a police certificate is in no way a guarantee that it's not being attacked. A police certificate has a limited period of validity, and one must thus often obtain police certificates for this group. These parties are also uncertain as to where the border will go for it to require police clearance. Sports, rowing, and many other organisations are largely characterized by voluntary activities and by the parenting of children. If the authorities are to require a police record for such work, it may in the long run be home and negative for voluntary work. The Christian People's Party has not concluded on the matter whether a police record is to be required for all those working with minors, but we have pointed to some problem settings, including: the limits to be imposed on the certificate. We look forward to the government's distribution and one thing about this, and one will then go deeper into the case complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e362	First, a tribute to the committee's chairman and rapporteur, who I think had a very good description of this matter. She also raises the important and correct issues. Let me first say that sexual abuse of children is one of the most cruel crimes that can be committed in a society, and that we have a duty to use the means necessary to protect children from abuse. We know that pedophiles and sexual offenders are applying for jobs and places where children live. That is why we have gradually received a very comprehensive law, with demands for police certificates for people working with children and young people – in the area of child protection, asylum reception, SFO, primary schools, etc. From 1 January 2009, it will also apply to non-governmental organisations, following an agreement concluded in the Norwegian Sports Association. The current situation is that the law is relatively fragmented and that the requirements are not viewed in context and assessed together. This is precisely why the government has sent out a letter of consultation, where, among other things, it has sent out a letter of formal notice. are proposed to carry out an overall review of police certification requirements for people with child-responsive tasks. In this respect, questions have been raised about, inter alia: the scope of police attestations and the extension of certificates to include some other crimes, such as: sexual assaults against adults, gross bodily injuries, killings, etc. There are also questions as to whether adults with child care in their private home should have a more comprehensive police record 24 hours a day. As we know, the deadline for consultation was 5 May 2008. The matter is now under consideration in the Government, and there will be a proposition to the Storting during the spring. In the work that the Government is now doing, I also think it is important to look at the issues and arguments where one is a little critical of the use of a police certificate. Firstly, we must not believe that a police record is a guarantee that there is no further abuse. We know that most of the abuses committed against children happen very in secret and are not discovered until many, many years later – perhaps never. A police record is in many ways of little use in such a context. At the same time, there is also a limit to the extent to which police certification is required for those who work at a voluntary level in the field of sport. This may have an extent limiting the activity and voluntary work. Another issue relating to police attestations is the use of resources by the police. One has to ask himself whether increased resource use can be defended in relation to what is achieved. That is why I would encourage the Council of State, when he continues to work on this matter, to also look at the objections that have arisen from the opposition, primarily from the Left and the Right, because there are very important objections. At the same time, we should not forget that the whole Stortinget has been involved in the decisions taken regarding the use of a police certificate. What we're discussing is that we don't have to get a scale and a use in the future that is kind of absurd, because it has a limited effect. Nevertheless, it is very important that we have police records to protect children from abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e377	The reason why the Progress Party wants to extend the police record to all adults who are in trust or responsibility for minors in their work, on a voluntary or paid basis is that we have repeatedly heard about issues in which adults have committed themselves to children or young people in connection with some form of leisure activity. That is why we are pleased that such a proposal is now being made in the ministry, so that we know at least that those working with children and young people have not been in the police search for either violence or morality in the past. Now, when the Right and Left in their comments say that even if you get a police record, you can't guarantee that it won't be violated, we're also fully aware of it. But at least it opens up the possibility for those who have a conviction of violence or moral crimes to seek temptation. We have also noticed that the representatives from the Right and the Left point to a greater focus on making people care. With all due respect for the intentions of these representatives' remarks, we would probably all wish that fellow humans could care more than they do today, but I am very uncertain whether what is going on in the hidden is thus being caught up. As the representative Gjul also said, people who commit abuse against children and young people are so used to doing this in secret that even if you had many people who cared, you wouldn't be able to catch this up. For example, we might refer to the handkerchief. There were probably many, both parents and others, who were shocked when the handkerchief was revealed. It is true that in that case, there would hardly have been any help with a police record, but when the handkerchief has served his sentence, it is rather doubtful whether he will again be taking part as a leisure manager for children and young people, precisely because it would require a police record from him. The right and left also use the argument that a police record can act as a barrier to voluntary work. The party of progress is of the opinion that it is rather the opposite. At least those who work with children and young people do not have any comments in police records. This is particularly important because, in recent years, there have been several cases in which offenders in child and youth settings have been previously convicted of violence or abuse. The progress party does not want this to be a sleep cushion. What we actually want is that parents who send their children to leisure should be able to feel as safe as possible by the fact that the sports team, the spy group or the church choir has actually received information that they are not convicted of violence or moral crimes. It seems to me that the Right and Left problematizes this issue almost to problematize – when you pull out the police's work and they become less visible in the streets, when you say that it will be a sleeping cushion, and that it will be inhibiting and negative. I don't understand what the Right and Left really mean in this case, but I expect them to tell us in their posts. For the Advancement Party, one thing – and only one thing – is important, namely that children and young people can be more confident than they are today that we adults take responsibility and accompany us. That is why I am pleased that the Government is doing such work, and that this will be presented during the spring, even though the Progress Party is of the opinion that it is urgent, which is also the background to the proposal we have made, and which I take up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e399	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e402	The abuses we're talking about here are one of the worst things we have in our society. Of course, as politicians, we feel that there should be no stones that have not been turned around in an attempt to stop it. But as far as this proposal is concerned, it's time we stopped at least a little bit and thought about it. The representative from the Progress Party drew up the handkerchief as an example. It's maybe in the number of one of the biggest assault cases we've ever had, and he had never been stopped by any police record. The agent may work well initially, but I actually think it's going to work against its purpose. My background – a long life in children's and youth organisations, a long life of volunteer work and a long life in school – makes me have the insight that I think is crucial to my position here. Firstly, it is quite important to have an alertness in all adults working with children, against signals in this area. It's a vigilance you should always have, even if you've got a police record of those you're camp leader with. That's the first one. Second, I think you would have found out that all of them, most of them, had never been stopped by a certificate, because these are people who don't have anything on their scroll. The reason is that most people who are asked to be camp leaders have nothing on their roller coaster. That's why they're asked to be camp leader. It's the knowledge that all parents and other adults in an organization have. It seems that the Progress Party has some kind of technical relationship to what volunteer work is. Voluntary work is the trust between adults when you ask someone about being a camp leader. It's not like you're sending your kid to an organization. No, you're usually involved in the hard work, you're usually involved in all of the other things around this that make you know all of the other adults who are involved in it. You would never send your child to someone you can't trust. We don't have to take it off and make non-profits almost a leisure offer, a business to which you can send your child. That's not how voluntary work actually works. I imagine what it's like to be a 4H leader and you're going to camp, and then you have to have another adult leader. You know that there's a dad that the kids like, and then you have to ask him if he's willing to spend a week of his vacation being a camp leader. But – by the way – he has to go into the police to get a police record, because we don't trust him to be good. I think a lot more people would answer no, because that means you don't trust them as adults. So one can also use as an argument: is this the most important job for the police, or is there quite a lot of other things we want the police to spend their time on? The last one is where to distinguish what falls under this, and what does not fall under this. Does that mean that when you're 17 years old and you're in a fight at a community party in Trøndelag, are you disqualified from working with kids for the rest of your life? Or does that mean that if you're a 17-year-old girl, you fall in love with a 15-year-old boy with whom the 15-year-old's mother reports you, you'll never get to work with kids in your life? It's for me a view of rehabilitation; it's for me a view of a distinction between what's actually a danger to the kids, and what's not that, which I think is quite wrong. I believe that people should be allowed to do also stupid things in their lives without being viewed as unqualified to work with kids. I know many people who haven't done such stupid things in their lives, but who are still not qualified to work with kids, because they don't fit it. But I also know that in the vast majority of non-governmental organizations you are not asked to do that job, because you don't fit it. I think you're going to get rid of this in the leisure sector for kids, it's about not making a single sleeping cushion. What's going on is that adults care absolutely all the time, look for signals and ask the kids and talk to them about what's actually happening. That's the only way to get rid of this. I am very afraid that a police report will stop that work and make a sleeping cushion for everyone, and that we will also kill a lot of volunteering here in the country. With this I will address the Left and Right proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e430	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e433	Since we now have a work in the Ministry of Justice that goes up against the problem that this proposal raises, I have to say that it is useful to have a round in the Storting as we now have, to hear what the respective parties also outside the Government feel about this. This is a question that has a lot of implications in itself, and in this way I see both the rapporteur and the last speaker raising a number of issues regarding police statements, which we are going to have with us on how many professional groups and in so far as also voluntary organisations and possibly other private people are going to make demands. We have fragmented that into legislation. The question of how far to go, both in terms of the extent of crime – whether to go as far as the proposers now state that violence should be included in a police record, which will cause serious problems for many – and not least the question of how far back to go. This is also true of the question of whether or not to do so. shall take into account the fact that one is under investigation and is intended and accused. I am listening with great interest to the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and also my own with regard to these questions, because I believe that they are problematicating this in a very sensible way. We need to address these difficult issues when we're going to make the new police register legislation. It's very demanding, because here we're obviously facing conflicting considerations. Most of us are clearly opposed to the fact that those who have been convicted of very serious sexual offences should have the opportunity to work with children, and we should try to defend ourselves against that. We have done this to a large extent in sectoral legislation around it, and there have been many legislative proposals on it. What the government is now working on is in many ways the framework around it. It is important for me to say that the Government also shares the view of the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party that it cannot be so far that it is almost possible to impose a ban on employment, which in the ultimate sense will actually help to create more insecurity in society, in the sense that it is not possible to contribute to people, among other things. be rehabilitated. So there are also some limits to the question of security. We can fool ourselves if we make such strict demands that people who are once convicted can never come back almost in any profession, the more we expand the certification. Here we have to find a balance. Therefore, I would like to say that in this particular matter – whether there are different outcomes on what the settings are – I should at least take along the comments and objections that are now coming from all parties, because I believe that many are very right. I would also like to make a few comments on the fact that the Progress Party is now almost in favour of discriminating violence and moral crimes for working with children. It shows how difficult this is. If it's an 18-year-old who, at a tipping point in the middle of the night in – I had almost said – acute jealousy knocks down his friend or someone else, it wouldn't be like that if he had to quit his job as an assistant at the SFO, for example. Many of us believe that we need to have some nuances in this, and that we would actually destroy a lot more if we make strict demands in terms of, for example. Young people who, unfortunately, were to be convicted of some form of violence should be given a professional ban when, for example: it concerns working with children. Here we have to bring the shades. It would be bad if he had to quit like a football coach. It might make worse if what happened at this restaurant a late night, was a signal that he was on his way out in some unfortunate situation and maybe risked committing several criminal acts, and if we tore him up from the social environment that actually helps him not to commit future criminal acts. I just want to say that in the work that is now in progress, we will take with us all the signals that come from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e456	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e460	I was actually a little surprised by the statements of the Council of State. He uses violence on a scene as an argument that you should not ask for a police record if you are going to work with a child because the person who did the violence was in a difficult situation. I have to say that for the Progress Party, all violence is totally unacceptable, no matter where it is going on, and no matter what difficult situation in which one lives. But what surprises me the most is that the Council of State says he's going to have to work with children. In fact, this difficult life situation may arise once again — and what guarantees do you have that he will not lose the thresholds he would otherwise have had? That's not what I was going to ask the Council of State about. But I think he has to make it clear whether he accepts that regardless of what happens, the convicted person should be able to work with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e469	It's a little bit unclear to me what the line is. But my point is that if an 18-year-old is convicted for a physical injury in a patio in the middle of the night, he's going to have a criminal reaction for it. It is important that he gets it, and that he gets it quickly, so that he learns. We've had 16-year-olds who go to the conflict council and clean up issues of violence. When that sentence is settled, I am very concerned that the person should not be almost cut off from working with children in the future. This must be an overall assessment, including: so the representative Trine Skei Grande is in, in relation to many other aspects than just what you can read out of a police certificate. What I'm afraid, is that if police clearance is required in these cases, many of these will automatically come to the back of the pile, and do not have the opportunity to have jobs where I believe there is no risk that he or she will be able to commit any crime against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e474	I'm glad the Council of State is so nuanced when he goes into this. I have two very specific questions. I know from my past that the Council of State has a good knowledge of non-governmental organisations and their scope. The first question is, can he say anything about how much pure paperwork this would make for the police to do this? At least the civil positions proposed by the Left in its alternative budget are needed, but perhaps the Council of State knows whether he needs more. The second question is about what I had hoped we could use more in Norwegian law, namely, that we could judge this by conviction, so that we could judge people and have as part of the sentence that these should not be related to kids, should not work with kids. In this way, one will be able to make an assessment on a case-by-case basis of whether these are persons who should not be allowed to work with young people later. Then it will become part of a judgment, and then, at least for the heart of a liberal, it will be easier to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e483	When it comes to volunteering, I think the interpellant and I share a lot of the same value-related background. Many of the voluntary organisations have taken a completely different view of this than we politicians have so far been able to construct. You've actually considered it nice to be able to recruit people like, among other things. are sentenced and worn out, whether for gain or for violence. In terms of morality, I think we're reasonably clear all of us. Volunteering has been much more open to being able to participate in rehabilitation than what we politicians actually are. That's where I think we need to be careful now, so that we don't create a code that cuts off the will to do the good job that they actually have done, regardless of political environments. It is quite obvious that it will be very resource-intensive if we go as far as the Progress Party says in relation to police statements, when we see how many people are involved in volunteering, and there will be an unusual amount of police resources. We'll look at that in the work that we're doing now, and we're ready to explain it too. Now I wasn't supposed to answer the other question, but I'd like to do it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e492	I want to get back to what I was really going to ask. We see that in kindergartens, in schools, and in sports through the Sports Association, police records have been introduced. We have also read about cases in recent years that go on other recreational activities where there is no requirement for a police record and that there have been cases of sexual abuse against children and young people. That's why I could imagine asking the State Council, since in kindergartens, schools and sports, there's no problem with police certification: why are there any problems with leisure activities beyond this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e499	I think it is very important that the issue of police certification requirements is assessed from field to field in society, especially because part of the business that the questioner is now dealing with is not part of what is immediately in public and where, among other things, it is. is a voluntary activity. Then the initiative and the wish must come from the environments that deal with children. At the same time, in the overall review, we will now look at whether we need to have some general rules, especially in relation to the issue of sexual abuse. But I must be allowed to repeat that I am, to put it mildly, skeptical to make the certificate very extensive, as the Progress Party has pointed out, among other things. in relation to violence and, to the extent that drugs — that you have been taken as a drug user at an early age — should cut you off from some of its professions in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e506	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 836]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e520	The interpellation I have here today is a matter I feel a very strong responsibility to take up, focus on and put words on here at Stortinget. It's about child protection in the Sami parts of the country. With the background and the knowledge I have of the Sami community, I feel a great responsibility to do just that. Through countless media lookups, we have been made aware of the great challenges of finding Sami foster homes for Sami children. I am therefore concerned about what is being done today to strengthen child protection in municipalities with Sami settlements, and what is being done to recruit Sami foster families and professionals with Sami backgrounds to the county councillors, and last but not least, what is being done to strengthen the use of family councils in Sami families. On two previous occasions, I have focused on the protection of children in Sami parts of the country, the last time in the Questionnaire in May 2007, when the then Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Karita Bekkemelm, said that the use of family councils in the work of Sami families in the field of child protection has increased, but that there is no integrated approach in the work of child protection with Sami families. The Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate reports that family councils are still not an integrated decision-making model in the work of Sami families. This is at the heart of my interpellation — the family council, and that we need to move quickly to get family councils to become a decision-making model in the work of Sami families in the field of child protection. Family councils are a decision-making model in which child protection provides the family and the network around the child with the opportunity to find solutions and take responsibility for their implementation. Professionals attend parts of the meeting to provide the family with the necessary information. The aim of the Family Council is to arrive at a plan for the child or youth. To help the family plan and implement the family council, child protection engages an independent coordinator. In St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, family councils are referred to as a method of working with Sami families in the field of child protection, as this is a method by which persons in the network around the family, the large family and others who are important to the child discuss and plan how they can help to improve the situation of the child. In my opinion, it is very important that we now have an advance in the use of family councils in the Sami parts of the country. Sami families are mostly large families with very many family members, and where families have a very close relationship and ties between themselves, much closer than what is typical for Norwegian families today. They feel and take a much greater responsibility for each other, and in a completely different way from what we see in Norwegian society. This, I believe, is very important that the Norwegian authorities are aware of and take into account in their further work on child protection in the Sami parts of the country. A little cohabitant or girl who first experiences being taken from their parents, and then being placed in a purely Norwegian and Norwegian-speaking foster home that may be very far from home, not only does losing her parents experience it, but is also completely deprived of the opportunity to develop her own identity, its Sami identity. They lose everything in many ways. They lose the Sami language and the Sami traditions, the culture of the Sami song and the joic, the Sami way of life, the Sami clothes and the Sami food. They lose the smell of reindeer skins, shells, mustard grass, and the taste of cooked meat and smoked meat, just to mention some of the important things in the growth of Sami children. The Child Protection Act assumes that the best interests of the child should be respected. The best thing for children in most cases is not to send them far away from their Sami environment, if it is possible to find a solution in the community and in the large family. In November 2006, I addressed with the then Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Karita Bekkemelm, whether the rights of Sami children are well respected in today's Children's Protection Services Act. The background to the question was that we had become aware through the media of various issues in which Sami children had been moved to foster homes, some were placed in non-Samian foster homes, and others moved to a hidden address. I wanted to have an assurance that the development of the identity of Sami children was taken into account in such matters, given the development of the languages of the Sami children and the belongings of the Sami culture and way of life. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality then replied that the rights of Sami children are well respected by the Constitution, the Children’s Convention and the Children’s Protection Act, but that it may be a challenge to ensure that the rights are respected in practice, as it has been difficult to provide foster homes for children with a Sami background. In my view, resources must now be deployed in this area. According to the Basic Law § 110a, the state is required to facilitate the preservation and development of its language, culture and social life by the Sami peoples. Under Article 30 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, a child belonging to a minority or an indigenous person shall not be denied the right to live in partnership with other members of his group with his or her culture, to profess and practice his or her religion, or to use his or her own language. Paragraphs 4 to 14 of the Child Protection Act provide that children are to be placed in foster homes, institutions or training or treatment establishments. The location shall be chosen according to § 4-15, taking into account the child’s specific nature and the need for care and training in a stable environment. Due account shall also be taken of the desirability of continuity in the child’s education and of the child’s ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. Paragraphs 4 to 22 provide that parents are to be chosen from persons who have a particular ability to provide a safe and well-being home to their child in accordance with the assumptions underlying their stay. According to Section 4 of the Regulation, the child protection service shall, when choosing a child’s foster home, give priority to the best interests of the child and due consideration shall be given to the child’s ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. So for the recruitment of professionals. One of the challenges of Sami child protection is to recruit people with a Sami background. I ask the Council of State to look at incentive schemes that can help increase the recruitment of professionals in general to the Sami child protection system. Training scholarships and years of compulsory education may be relevant instruments, including the recruitment of specialists. In order to be appointed expert in the counties, doctors are required to have two years of further training in the field of child and youth psychiatry. For the Sami population, recruiting Sami-speaking doctors is a big enough challenge. Getting them to undertake further training is therefore a challenge. But the need for experts is not so great either, so if one gave incentives, for example. every five years, it could be sufficient to meet the need. I ask the Council of State to look into the criteria for the appointment of experts for the Sami child protection system and to consider whether to open up more to experience and language skills, combined with a slightly lower requirement for specialisation. Finally, I would like to say and repeat that it must be that a child protection service should always consider very carefully whether someone in the large family or close networks of the Sami child can be selected as a foster home for the child. It will certainly be for the benefit of a child born with a Sami identity and a Sami background.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e552	The representative Vera Lysklätt asks if family councils should be used in several cases where Sami families are involved. The answer to the question is yes. In recent years, a lot of work has been done to make this model more familiar. The results are very good. 97 pst. of the families who have implemented the family council, recommend that model to others. An information brochure has now been developed in northern Sami, and Sami municipalities have increasingly used family councils. The municipalities of Karasjok, Tana, Porsanger and Kautokeino have been trained in this model. Child protection services in these municipalities are in favour of the way they operate and believe that it is well suited as a tool for decision-making. They consider the model to be very similar to Sami culture. Several Sami municipalities have been offered training in family councils, and according to the regional coordinator of the region in the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, a national implementation plan has now been drawn up to ensure that several municipalities that wish to do so are able to implement family councils. On a general basis, I believe that child protection understands the importance of working with minorities, including indigenous people. Nevertheless, there is a need to better integrate the Sami perspective into both state and municipal child protection. With regard to the question of appointing experts with Sami cultural understanding and language, I would say that this is important, and that this is an interest we will emphasise in the coming time. Sami children often encounter child protection with limited competence in Sami language and culture. In matters relating to Sami children, it should be noted that the first should examine the possibility of placement within the child’s family and network. One shall pay particular attention to foster home-based solutions. The Finnish foster home service has recruited several foster homes and emergency homes that can maintain the identity and language development of Sami children. Municipalities shall otherwise contribute to the provision of preventively organised offers to Sami parents. I am therefore pleased, as far as child protection in Finnmark and upper parts of North Norway are concerned, that we are seeing less and less young people being sent to institutions in the West or in the East, but that they are increasingly placed in their neighbourhoods. At the initiative of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, further training on child protection has started from a minority perspective. The Sami scheme is very heavy inside the Finnish State College. In 2009, this scheme will be evaluated, and we will assess the need for further strengthening of this offer. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will also contribute to strengthening the competence of municipalities in the field of child protection in Sami areas, through multi-annual knowledge and competence programmes. The report ‘Knowledge status and knowledge needs for the protection of children in Sami areas of Norway’ shall be used as part of the basis for a greater implementation of some selected cultural-sensitive methods. This is followed up by the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate. The children’s, youth and family budget shall continue to work towards the development of a knowledge-based child protection system that takes into account the background and culture of the individual. The Sami population, as is known, is not only resident in Finnmark and North Troms, but resident throughout the area. Therefore, it is important as a national development strategy. The establishment's regional office in the north can assist with child protection when involved in matters involving Sami families in other parts of the country. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is among others: in dialogue with the Sameting on a future strategy to strengthen the competence of child protection in terms of a Sami perspective in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e571	I would like to thank the Minister for Children and Gender Equality for a good answer. I understand that she is also sincerely concerned that we should have a good child protection for all children and young people in this country, regardless of ethnic background. I'm very happy about that. In a response to me in December 2006, the then Minister for Children and Gender Equality said that she wanted to meet the Sameting to get involved and discuss the challenges that Sami children and their families face with child protection. It is good to hear that the current Minister for Children will also follow up on the contact with the Sameting, so that the rights of Sami children in contact with child protection can be guaranteed. Another point that I want to highlight in this context is that intermunicipal cooperation on child protection services is something I have great faith in, including in small Sami municipalities, in order to be able to strengthen child protection in municipalities with Sami settlements. The co-operation administration opened up 13 attempts of inter-municipal cooperation on child protection, all of which concluded almost positively on all trials. The evaluation shows that the objective of contributing to a better and wider professional environment, better skills and better services has been achieved. While taking advantage of a larger and more robust service, organisational solutions have also been found to help ensure good user accessibility and good cooperation with partners. Both employees, users and partners have expressed great satisfaction with the cooperation. There was no target of saving money through cooperation, but there has been a implicit objective that municipalities should get better and more stable services through cooperation than they would have been able to do on their own. The overall reduction in costs, while the objective of strengthening and improving child protection services has been achieved to a large extent, calls for such cooperation on child protection in these trials to be very successful. Unfortunately, there were no municipalities in Finnmark, where we now have the largest – and the central – Sami settlement, among these experimental municipalities. Is inter-municipal cooperation on the protection of children between municipalities with samian settlements a good idea for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, and could she imagine starting one or more such attempts in one or more regions with Sami settlements?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e584	I believe that the question that the representative Lyskleatt raises here is very important. In municipalities in Nord-Troms, cooperation has increasingly been developed across municipal borders. Because it is difficult in small communities to face many of these conflicts that child-restraint workers do. You meet in the choir, you meet at the store, and it can be hard to make tough decisions. On the other hand, we have experience in child protection work in some small municipalities, so that cooperation between different departments often goes a little bit easier because the environments are smaller, and you can work with each other better because you know each other. So it has positive and negative consequences. A book is written about what it is like to work in child protection in a small municipality and be the so-called ‘municipal hexa’. It illustrates how difficult this can be in many of these cases. I think the representative Lyskleätt has an important point when she suggests that several of the municipalities in the Sami areas should also engage in inter-municipal cooperation. I think it's important. We have now set up a public investigation to look at cooperation between various assistance services for children and young people. In this selection, the county also sits in Troms, Svein Ludvigsen, and he has a lot of experience with inter-municipal cooperation. I think this is an important and proper way to go in many of the smallest municipalities in the country, so I thank you for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e591	The interpellant brings up a theme that is generally very interesting. It seems to me that putting only the Sami children in focus is going to put a very marginal group in focus. That's why I want to discuss family councils in general. They work well regardless of the background of the children. Now we've also heard that they work well for the Sami children. So we've come up with a tool in the field of child protection that works, that takes the family seriously, that creates dialogue. And it's absolutely amazing. Family councils are an alternative way of making decisions where the family’s own knowledge and resources are given more space than before. In family councils, the family first receives information from the professionals. Then the family, and then the large family, sit together and discuss the child’s situation, before finally proposing an action plan for the protection of children. Child protection has then legitimized its role in the family in a completely different way from what was used to in the past. The families who have part of these family councils say that they feel that it is being heard and that they are being taken seriously. Obviously, not all things can go to the family council, but in the families where this is used, the big family is also involved, i.e. Grandparents, aunts and uncles, so if the child is unable to live at home for a period of time, there are helpers in the immediate family. Family councils should have been introduced as one of the methods of child protection, i.e. part of the tool. Unfortunately, only a few selected municipalities still use this, and the project has also been completed in some places, despite the fact that it actually works. Sami children have the same needs as all other children in Norway for a safe framework and a good upbringing. There are many groups of children from different minority groups in this country, and we might have to assume that finding foster homes in all minority groups is difficult. Ideally, it would probably have been best, but the most important thing is that children who, for different reasons, cannot live at home get a safe place to grow up. In conclusion, I would like to say that child protection has come up with a form of communication with family and children, which means that the big community is also getting more respect for the work of child protection. For a long time, child protection was perceived as an overpowering force hiding behind the obligation of professional secrecy. The issues that have been in the family council will never end up as exhilarating issues in the media, because the family itself has helped to find good solutions for their children, which are in the best interests of the child. And no matter what you do and how you do it, we're always going to focus on what's best for the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e608	I want to thank the interpellant for putting a very important matter in focus. I wish that, as politicians, we had been much more concerned with child protection in all areas, because it is important to raise such issues politically. All children in need of child protection measures shall have measures to meet their needs. It is important that when child protection intervenes and assumes responsibility for the child, the action offered to the child must be good. The biggest intervention in a family is when the child is taken out of the home. The measures taken at that time must be of good quality and adapted to the needs of the individual child. We have to make sure the child gets better. We know that it is a challenge to provide foster homes that are adapted to the needs of each child. Many children are in foster homes because it's hard to find homes that fit them. Finding foster homes adapted to Sami children and children with a minority background can also be an additional challenge. The challenge may be to find measures to ensure the linguistic and cultural link of the child, which are at the same time considered to be the best response based on the child’s other individual needs. Obstetrics are generally difficult to obtain, and it is sometimes particularly difficult to obtain Sami foster homes. The Children’s Protection Act lays down detailed rules on the considerations to be taken in relation to accommodation in foster homes or institutions. Child protection matters are often complex and complex, and there may also be different opinions about what is best for the child. Therefore, good child protection skills are very important in order to provide children with the measures they need. Much further work needs to be done to develop a knowledge-based child protection system that takes into account the background and culture of each child. It is also important to stress that we need to research the various measures we are taking in the field of child protection, so that we know that they work. Continuing training ‘Childner protection from a minority perspective’ started in the autumn of 2008. Education is offered at the universities of Finnmark, Oslo, Lillehammer and Telemark. The Sami perspective is heavy within the education of the community, especially at the Finnish University of Finland. In 2009 this further training will be evaluated, in which case it will be necessary to assess whether there is a need to further strengthen the Sami part of the offer. It is also important to strengthen the competence of municipalities in the field of child protection in Sami areas, and I am pleased that the Council of State signalled that the report ‘Knowledge status and knowledge needs for the protection of children in Sami areas of Norway’ should be used as part of the basis for such a commitment. There is a Sami population across the country, and therefore there has to be a national focus on the development of competences. It is important that the protection of children also for Sami children first examines the possibility of accommodation in the child’s family and network. Family councils are also an important measure, on which both the Council of State and others have been involved. It is gratifying that the Finnish Foster Home Service has recruited several foster homes and emergency homes to preserve the identity and language development of Sami children. Municipalities shall otherwise contribute to the provision of preventively organised offers to Sami parents. Under Article 30 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, a child belonging to an indigenous or minority shall not be denied the right to live in a pact with its culture, use his or her own language and profess and practice his or her religion together with other members of his or her group. It grants rights to Sami children under Norwegian law and international conventions. I think we agree that the Sami perspective must be better integrated into both state and municipal child protection. Sami children continue to face child protection with limited competence in Sami language and culture. It is therefore good that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is in dialogue with the Sameting on future strategies to strengthen the competence of child protection in view of a Sami perspective in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e629	I would like to pay tribute to the representative Vera Lyskleätt for having seen this topic on the agenda of Stortinget. Sami children have other challenges than Norwegian children, and I thought that the representative Lyskleat described it in a very good way in his post. What we have in common is that we want to take care of culture, identity and history. We're all occupied with that. It is particularly important that minorities in Norway also have their dreams and wishes fulfilled. When children grow up without being cared for by their family, which means that child protection has to come in and they have to move to someone else, they are in a very vulnerable and difficult situation. Then it is important that we are alert to give the children the optimal care situation. It is also important to bear in mind that when it comes to a child with a minority background, particular attention must be paid to that child’s history and culture. All children should be looked at individually. When we at Stortinget discuss child protection challenges, we must not forget that we need professional skills in all areas, and that we need professionals who can respond well to this challenge. That is why I think it is very good when the Council of State says that the Department is in dialogue with the Samian Children's Competence on Challenges, and it is important that that dialogue continues. It is important that we highlight these challenges on the political agenda, where political action is needed to do the job well. Child protection needs competence in all areas. When you are going to recruit more people into child protection, you have to work on how to do the best possible job and how to strengthen your skills when dealing with these issues – here are the Sami compositions that are especially highlighted on the agenda. The use of family advice is very good for children in general and certainly also when it comes to challenges related to Sami children. The Family and Culture Committee was on a committee tour in More and Romesdal, where we were given detailed information about the work and the experience one has so far with family councils. One senses that by providing the resources that are in the family itself through responsibility, it is possible to resolve a care situation without having to resort to measures such as out-of-home placements. Therefore, it is of course important that you first find out what resources you have in your child's own community, and in your family, which you can go on. The family is given the task of discussing this as a large family: Here we have a challenge – how can we feel responsibility, and what can we contribute to this child in a difficult situation? It appeals to each individual where there is a special situation. In general, when it comes to the recruitment of foster parents, it is a challenge. We can read about this very often in the newspapers, at the latest yesterday, from my home country, how difficult it is to manage recruit enough foster parents, especially for children aged 12-13 and up. That's why it's very important that that work gets intensified. Now I know that the department has done a lot when it comes to professional rights in relation to state foster parents. But I think it's important to look at the framework conditions for foster parents in general, and especially for the locals, where nothing has been done. Here we need to put in many more resources to get more foster parents. Then the framework conditions must be good. One has to go in and do research and find out what's going on in order for us to have more people who want to be, because many kids feel that it's a desperate situation to be in a shelter and not know if they get a foster home – whether they get a security or an insecurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e648	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant. I'm a little proud to be a member of a party that has a representative who can raise the Sami issues in this way. I also think it's nice to raise this in an interpellation, because it's not an arena for the big party political confrontation. I think there are three elements here that it's important to bring with them. Some elements also intervene in my constituency, which is Oslo. The first is said to lift the Sami. In fact, there are some expectations for us as a nation to take care of the Sami culture in a completely different way than for other parts of our culture. The responsibility we have for an indigenous population is special, and it is enshrined in international conventions. Giving kids the opportunity to take care of their culture even when they get under the wings of child protection is an aspect that we may not have talked about so much in the past. But it is also an aspect that intervenes in Oslo as an electoral district – Oslo is one of the major joint municipalities – and has been important here to establish a Sami kindergarten and a Sami class in order to provide them with opportunities even when growing up in Oslo. The second point I think is important is the challenges of child protection in small municipalities. Being one of the professionals in a municipality, the one to enforce legislation that intervenes so strongly in people's lives, must be terribly difficult – it is also an arena where there must be a lot of conflicts. I think one of the challenges we have for child protection in the future, and one of the challenges for the municipal structure in the years to come, is to have good professionals – professionals who can hold the authority when they need it, but who don't use it when they don't need it. It's a big challenge in the future. The third point that everyone here who has had the word has said is very positive, is the use of family councils. It has also been used in the protection of children in Oslo, especially for immigrant families, who have had a different approach to child protection. But they've also had another network around them, which they traditionally use to mobilize. It has proved to be a great success. I have to say that the visit the committee had to More and Romesdal, where we were briefed on how they worked on this, opened even more windows for me. I had thought that this was something you did in Oslo, because it fit immigrant parents, but the workers from child protection in More and Romesdal could tell that sails in small municipalities had families with poor social networks, families who had perhaps just moved to the municipality, the possibility of mobilizing a network that no one in child protection had dreamed they could get. My second objection to the family council has been the child's role here. But after reading research reports in this area, I understand that the kids think it's great to be the midpoint when so many adults sit down and stand up to find a solution for the individual kid. So what I thought would be negative is going to be very positive for all the kids who have been in the studies, because they feel like they're being taken care of by a lot of adults, which is the meaning of a family council. So I hope the Council of State does everything she can to implement this – not just in the matters we have discussed today – as a working method of child protection in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e663	Finally, I would like to thank you for a fine debate, and I am pleased that there were more people here who took the floor. We have been given a focus on a matter that is very important to our Sami children and families all over the country. So there are two aspects of Sami child protection that are special and that I have wanted to address here today: one is that the Sami identity of the children who are subject to child protection decisions should be respected as much as possible, and the other is the particular large-scale family structure that we have in the Sami culture. It is a well-known case that there is a large shortage of Sami host families and foster families, just as there is a large shortage of Norwegian families. However, it is a rather unknown challenge for a Norwegian child to be moved to a Sami host or foster family, but there have been too many cases up through the time when Sami children move south to Norwegian families. Of course, the best of the child is the most important thing, and very rarely will it be so important to move the child so far away from his or her own parents that the identity has to give up. But the ideal thing is whether we can recruit more Sami host and foster families and make more use of the unique resource that large families and family councils in the Sami culture can represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e674	I thank you for a very interesting debate on an important question that was raised in the interview. It was more like this in the past that if you discovered a care failure in a family, the child was placed with aunt and uncle or with grandmother and grandfather. Then we got a turn away from this in child protection, with great scepticism against placing the kid in the family or making arrangements around the family. I now feel that the entire child protection system is more concerned with using this former model, not only in the Sami areas, not only in Oslo, but that it is more widely used throughout the country. Because even if the child is placed in a foster home outside the family, it is important that the rest of the family set up with relief, that it may be where to visit if the parents cannot be visited. That's why I think we need to focus more on the resources that exist in the family, either by placing the child with someone in the family, or by mobilizing the rest of the family as a network around the child. We also know that follow-up of biological parents is important, whether the child lives in the family or is located outside the family, because it is often the child's return. If you don't work with the biological parents, you don't get the best of the child. That's why I have good faith in this, and I know that the department and the directorate are busy facilitating more use of the family council. The discussion of small municipalities needs to take time, especially in view of the way child protection works. So it's a quarter of the country's municipalities that have less than half of the child's protection. It's not going to be a great professional environment, and it's hard to stand in many of those cases. I hear that the representative Woldseth from the Progress Party has a basic positive attitude towards the work of child protection. I think it's important, because child protection has got a lot of criticism. It is important that we have a socially critical discussion about a service that largely manages very great power, but in the public discussion there are few politicians today who always go out against child protection. We have a more positive attitude to the basic idea of child protection, and then it's not always we get an offer that qualitatively is good enough for the individual child. We need to have a critical discussion about that. But I think there are more issues where child protection should have gone into than there are too many things they go into. I feel that there is a great deal of cross-political agreement about that. So there's one other thing I want to mention, and that's that we need to become increasingly concerned about how children and young people themselves can make contact with child protection. This also applies to Sami children and young people. We have therefore provided some information on a Sami website to facilitate contact with child protection for Sami children and young people. Thank you for an important discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e692	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e698	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e705	During the debate, Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e731	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e753	President! I voted wrong. I was to vote against, but voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e758	Then there will be 78 votes against and 23 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party. Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e779	In Case No. 3 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28.ana.ud679e791	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word under Rule 37(a) before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
