ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e52	Honored co-representatives! It was with deep sorrow the Stortinget received notice of the former deposit representative Per Erik Monsen's far too early departure. Per Erik Monsen was born on 18 April 1946 in Sandefjord and was thus only barely 62 years old, dying on Saturday 16 February after a short period of illness. Per Erik Monsen represented the Progress Party in Westfold and was elected to the Stortinget in 1997, when his party made a very good choice and more than doubled its number of big business representatives. He was re-elected for a new period in 2001, but chose not to apply for a third period and left the Stortinget in the autumn of 2005. He participated in Norway's delegation to one of the main UN meetings and was a member of the British delegation to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. In all his eight years in Stortinget, Per Erik Monsen was a member of the Financial Committee. He took part in the committee's hectic meetings with life and soul and put down a considerable amount of work. He took his important position with great social responsibility. During both Bondevik governments, he actively participated in several budgetary negotiations leading to important budgetary settlements which he considered to be in the best interests of the country's population. In addition to his work in the Financial Committee, where he was also the case rapporteur for important matters, he did his best to represent the interests of the Westfold counties and Westfolders in many contexts. After the Law Department I, Per Erik Monsen took the teaching school 1974-77. He worked at Framnæs Mechanical Workshop from 1972 to 1973 and was a teacher at Fevang School 1978-1997. Per Erik Monsen was Chairman of the Sandefjord Progress Party 1994-1997 and a member of Sandefjord City Board and Chairmanship 1987-1997. He was rapporteur for 1990-1994 and 1995-1997. In Stortinget, Per Erik Monsen had a good reputation, and he made more friends across party boundaries. He acted as it suits a member of the national parliament of the country. Our thoughts go to his longtime roommate, his son and grandson, who have suffered a great loss so early. In reverential gratitude for his work in Stortinget, we bring peace to Per Erik Monsen's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e75	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e78	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Ingreig S. Sørfonn, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the assessment of VAT exemptions for voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e83	The representative Per Sandberg will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e86	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik and myself, I would like to propose that the bonding of property in connection with transportation projects be automatically followed up with an offer for redemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e91	The representative, Mr Giltun, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e94	On behalf of the big business representatives Siv Jensen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Harald Valved and myself, I propose an additional allocation of SEK 1.5 billion for regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e100	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e113	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the Advance Party and up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e122	A joint municipal committee asked the Government to present its own capital message in which Oslo's special role as a tone-setting city and capital was further assessed. The Committee also supports the Communication's starting point that an assessment of the role of the capital must also cover the municipalities forming part of the Oslo Cooperation Alliance. The entire Committee recognises that Oslo is in direct competition with the Copenhagen-Malmö, Stockholm and Helsinki metropolitan regions and that increased competitiveness for the metropolitan region is of strategic importance for Norway and Norwegian business. I am also pleased that the communication calls for a metropolitan policy, and that national policies should underpin Oslo's development as a dynamic metropolitan city. I would like to point out that the Nordic big cities together are important lighthouses in the North for example. research, innovation and travel. In such a perspective, Norway and the State have a responsibility to contribute to large-scale Nordic urban cooperation, including: through the Nordic Council. I would also like to point out that the Capital Communication describes the Oslo region in an excellent way as a region of entrepreneurship, innovation and knowledge businesses. I agree with what is stated in the Communication that industry has a good basis for doing well in the Oslo region, and that the region has a great innovation potential. I would also like to highlight in particular that the Oslo region differs from the rest of Norway in terms of high education, innovation and entrepreneurship. In the capital region, some of the country's most important research environments are located in energy, environment and nature, and these are located in Kjeller and Ås. I believe that these environments, together with the research communities in Oslo, represent an important environment of competence for future innovation. The government has provided a worded message with a lot of statistics and facts about the situation in Oslo, but little policy and little concrete action. The notification is probably an example of the fact that such messages tend to be a summary of policies already adopted and put in place, and little new proposals. This is a lesson The Stortinget and the Government should include in the assessment when ordering this type of messages in the future. I also note that the Government of the Capital Message states that they want Oslo to act as a driving force in national and regional development, and that they will pursue offensive policies to develop advantages, qualities and opportunities in Oslo and the Capital Region. The Communication also underlines the diversity and importance of Oslo as the centre of national economy and cultural life and as a knowledge society. It is positive that the government places such emphasis on the importance of the capital for the whole country. However, I would like to point out that one in Oslo will notice to a small extent some political consequences of the presentation of a capital message. I also miss a good description of the reality that is followed by good and concrete action. I think it is sad that the government in the capital message has not gone away from the old idea that urbanization is negative. The Party of Advancement considers, inter alia, that: that the Government shows a lack of understanding of the facts when, inter alia, in the notification: claim: ‘A good rural and regional policy will reduce the pressure problems in the metropolitan region.’ The Progress Party considers, on the contrary, that the role of the metropolitan city in the world economy is becoming increasingly important as a large and growing share of the value creation takes place in the service sector and that competitive Norwegian major cities will be very much responsible for Norway’s international competitiveness. The Progress Party believes that the new path for rural development must be to focus on cities and regional centres as development actors. I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e160	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e165	The Progress Party writes in one of its comments that they ‘rejoice that the Council of State acknowledges that neither the Government nor the Grand Duchy can decide where people will live’. Furthermore, they are also ‘of the opinion that the pattern of residence should be governed by free elections, not by big business policies’. Beautiful words. But the problem is that for the Progress Party, this clearly applies only to ethnic Northmen. In another note, the Progress Party clarifies what they think, namely that: ‘It is necessary to facilitate the amendment of the legislation in order to penalise allowances refugees and persons who have been granted residence on the basis of an asylum application who are resident in other municipalities if they move to Oslo’. Then the question becomes -- because this is quite confusing for the Workers' Party: What does the Progress Party really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e179	That things are confusing for the Workers' Party, we know. But I want to show that the housing market in Oslo is characterised by high price levels and high turnover. High housing costs for low income groups may mean that income does not extend to the rest of your life. I would also like to point out that in Norway and in the Oslo region there is a free housing market, where prices are regulated by supply and demand. Prices are increasing when new construction is not able to keep up with increased migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e184	It is not often we get to demonstrate the gruesome views of the Progress Party as clearly as in this case. After all, Saera Khan quoted the more liberalist policy that people should live where they want to. But then there is something else for immigrants and asylum seekers. They won't be allowed to move to Oslo if they don't have enough to live with. Now I think the Progress Party has to explain to us what's in this, because this is a way of defining where someone is defined, someone is different. And those who are different in this case are those who have been given residence in Norway either on a humanitarian basis or what it might be. So these people have been allowed to stay in Norway, but they will not be allowed to live in Oslo if they can't feed themselves. What does the Progress Party actually mean? Is this a way to define a part of the population, to say that there are some rules for us and then there's something else for others? This gets the Progress Party to respond properly, and not talk about the Workers' Party not understanding it, or what it might be. Now the Progress Party gets a real answer: what is it in that kind of policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e195	There is no doubt that Oslo has special challenges like the big city and capital. Many people are being drawn from all over the country to Oslo, and these challenges must be solved by Oslo. Unfortunately, we see that the government is not playing with Oslo in terms of these major challenges. The Progress Party believes that people should be able to live and establish where they want to live in the country, and we are quite clear about that. But there is no doubt that Oslo has very special challenges that no other major cities in Norway have. We have to compare ourselves with cities down in Europe and Copenhagen if we are to find the same challenges. So there's no doubt that Oslo has challenges, and I hope that Oslo can play well with the Government in these areas. But the conclusion is that people have to be able to establish where they want to go in Norway. It is a policy that the Progress Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e204	The progress party is concerned with the nightlife in Oslo, and says in a note that they want visible police on the weekends that are present and arrest those who make trouble and practice violence. Furthermore, they do not want a restrictive alcohol policy. They even say that they want some free opening hours and gift zones in the city - a much more liberal alcohol policy. This is a violation of what the police themselves are saying. They recommend a more restrictive alcohol policy to address the issue of violence in the weekends in Oslo. Is the police wrong? Is it the opinion of the Progress Party that the police block when they say that restrictive alcohol policy is what is going on, because there is a link between the proliferation of alcohol and the problem of violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e211	I think there is a great deal of consensus in Oslo on the tipping policy, across the parties. The challenges Oslo faces are the obvious use and trafficking of drugs, and I think that is frightening. There are, in fact, clear trends in the sale and trafficking of drugs in the open street in Oslo. We are serious about this. In the opinion of the Progressive Party, it is a major challenge for the municipality to prevent new recruitment to the drug environment. That's probably the biggest challenge, and that's where we think the police should put the resources. I would like to say, as I said at the outset, that there is a great deal of consensus in Oslo on the tipping policy. There we believe that local politicians have to decide for themselves, but we believe that the police should give priority to drug trafficking and sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e219	As a big city and capital, Oslo houses both educational institutions and workplaces that make many young people use parts of or their whole life here in the capital. In the previous ageing period, this led, among other things, to a tight community economy to reduce the supply of young people in the capital and other places in the country. At that time, the Progress Party set up as a supporting party for the government - and they have run and run Oslo City. My question is simply: what has the Progress Party done, and what will a person do, so that young people have a meaningful growth and a meaningful leisure time in the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e228	If the representative has read the statement, he will have seen that we are making concrete actions for young people at the stage mentioned by the representative. But I would nevertheless point out that the inhabitants of Oslo will notice little consequences of the message submitted by the Government. There's a lot of words and a lot of statistics, which I was in my post, but there's little concrete action from the Government in this matter. So much political consequences for the citizens of Oslo, I don't think we're going to see by this message. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e235	I have to continue on the theme that I started on, because I expect a proper answer that matches what is in the setting. My question is: are there going to be different rules for people moving to Oslo, whether you are ethnically Norwegian or whether you are an asylum seeker and have been given a residence in Norway? In the setting, the Progress Party writes that they should only be able to move to Oslo if they are 'economically self-held' - that's what they are using. Does that mean that if a Westerner, one from Sogn and Fjordane, an ethnic Northman, wants to move to Oslo and he is initially perhaps one who defines the Progress Party as not the self-held, should he not be allowed to move to Oslo because he may have too low income? That is what the Progress Party must respond to in concrete terms. What the Progress Party writes about those who have been given residence in Norway, asylum seekers or others is that they should not be allowed to move to Oslo, because economic demands must be made here. Should the same rules be applied, for example: also applies to one from Sogn and Fjordane, where I myself come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e242	I meant myself that I gave a real answer to Rolf Reikvam, but I guess that's how you interpret what you want. I said clearly that people must be able to establish where they want to be in Norway, and that is a position the Progress Party has. So to the question of where to establish, and whether to not be allowed to establish in Oslo. When immigrants and refugees are placed around the country, funds often follow. The problems and challenges for Oslo are when someone moves from the neighbouring municipality and into Oslo without the funds following the person. It's a challenge, and Rolf Rikvam should also see it. This is a major challenge for Oslo, and then solutions have to be found. It has been clearly pointed out in the papers and in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e249	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e252	This is a historic day for the capital of Norway. For the first time, a Norwegian Government presents a capital message addressed in Stortinget. It clearly shows a willingness to recognise that a strong capital is a priority for the whole country, and that it is a national task to have a well-functioning capital. Oslo is a capital of which we are proud. This is where diversity exists, where the city centre expresses different and exciting cultures and impulses, where the international world community often gets its first image of Norway, where the tourist attractions and host of international representation exist, where the largest and most important educational institutions develop knowledge, modern technology and research, and where the business community has a driving force and engine with its strong economies. Oslo is simply an incredibly exciting city with many faces. The aim of this message is to create an open and inclusive city, a safe and creative capital. Side by side with our pride for Oslo, it's important to make some honest confessions that we have national problems with focus in our city. It is still the case that the city has great differences in living conditions. If you live on the east side, you're actually at risk of living 12 years less than someone who lives on the west side. And the difference between poor and rich gets bigger and bigger. The richest live in Oslo, and the poorest live in Oslo. We have an ambition to fight public poverty. A strong investment in the capital is therefore a demanding operation, and we must succeed in it. The growing minorities in Oslo require a national commitment to inclusion. There are schools today where over 50 pst. of the student mass are children with a migrant background. There are children who grow up with illiterate parents who cannot Norwegian until they start school. Neither is it true in Oslo today that all citizens feel safe. Rape numbers are increasing. The rapes have become more brutal. Regrettably, it has become a major urban phenomenon capable of recruiting more and more young boys. Prostitution has changed dramatically. The sale of weapons has increased. The drug turnover has completely new dimensions than before. We know that the Oslo Police have a strong pressure on the capacity, because they work with the guards of embassies and with public visits, as well as all the ordinary, Oslo-typical, crime challenges they face. I'm proud that we have a government that takes seriously the problems Oslo faces, and presents a message that goes deep and thorough through these challenges -- not only because Oslo is a capital that needs that recognition, but also because it is imperative to solve these phenomena if we are to continue to be proud of our great capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e270	Oslo needs jobs. Oslo needs good business. Oslo also needs state enterprises. Still, important companies are moving out of Oslo. The last one is the Veterinary College, which is being moved from Oslo to Ås. Where does the limit go for how much you can move out of Oslo, and where does the limit of the Oslo representative from the Workers' Party go for what can be moved out of Oslo? Is it not soon possible to put a line for this unwise use of money and for the consequences it has for the jobs in the capital? My question is, where is the limit of the Oslo representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e277	I thank you for a very good and very important question. We are very concerned that many government jobs are still going to be in Oslo. In the Capital Communication, we say that innovation and industrial development are very important. We want to get more entrepreneurs in Oslo, build entrepreneurs in the minority communities and get more female entrepreneurs in Oslo -- not only because the center of value creation in Norway is in the capital, but also because we want to develop Oslo as a city where there is more diversity, because there is a great combination of all the inequalities and differences here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e284	The representative Khan's contribution was a strong defense that Oslo needs more money to solve the challenges the city has. But in the Sørheim Committee, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have accepted changes that will reduce Oslo to 500 million. kr in the year from 2009. Of course, it is going to go beyond the service offered to the citizens of Oslo. So you do the corporate tax state -- that's 250 million. kr - and in addition, the balancing system is changed, ranging from 55 to 60 pst. Today, Oslo is giving SEK 3.1 billion to other municipalities in the country in cohesion, and this will increase with the Workers' Party's position in the Sørheim Committee. My question is: does the representative Khan agree with his party traps in the Sørheim Committee that this is the right solution for Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e289	This is a very important question, and we are working a lot with the Sørheim Committee's configuration now. I am fully aware of the figures given by the representative Eriksen Sørenide. There's a process we're currently in the process of doing. We haven't finally concluded, and we know that Oslo has special phenomena and challenges that need to be addressed in that message. We know that Oslo has a large proportion of drug users, and that a large proportion of the population has a minority background, and that's taken up a little too little in that position. We consider, for example: capital supplements, and we consider good transitional arrangements, which will ensure that Oslo does not fall out as a result of the Sørheim setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e295	The Christian People's Party is committed to doing something for those who have major drug problems, alcohol and drugs problems, in the capital. One of the measures we believe to be defective is the establishment of injection rooms. Now there is an evaluation that says that the number of overdose deaths has not decreased. This is an action that helps to maintain this drug use instead of combating its adverse effects. Is it not time for the Workers' Party and the Government to reconsider their view of injection rooms? A person spends his money on something that doesn't necessarily help, but that just keeps up a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e300	I strongly disagree with the representative Tørresdal, simply because spray rooms, or heating rooms, are a very important measure for those people who today have no spokespersons in the public space, who are at the bottom of the social ladder. We know that in Oslo there have been cases where people rush into public toilets and public streets, and then it's better to make sure they have places in Oslo they can go to where they get food, drink and medication under hygienic circumstances. I'm very surprised. The Labour Party has always agreed with the Christian People's Party that we should have good low-threshold offers, that we should have good measures to combat prostitution, that we should have good measures for drug users, and that we should have a social housing policy. That's why I'm very surprised that the Christian People's Party doesn't want any action for those who are all, at the bottom of the ranks, and has no other option.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e307	The representative Saera Khan described with commitment and strengthening the crime scene in the capital, so I assume that she agrees with me that security for the citizens is essential and that security for the citizens requires more people in the police. More and more people in the police force are simply an alternative to getting more and more guards, who are actually slipping into the area of the police. The left has recently made a clear proposal that the police will need 3,000 more posts over the next ten years. As part of the proposal, we have proposed that, inter alia: The Oslo Police are given civilian positions, which allow police officers to be released from transporting prisoners immediately and from looking after people in the arrest, simply freeing people to be out in the practical work and creating security for the city. Can we now assume that the Labour Party will support proposals that are specifically aimed at bringing civilian positions to the Oslo Police while we are waiting for the admission to the Police College to be increased, as the Left wishes - to 550 students instead of 430 as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e316	I thank you for a good question. Security is very, very important to this government. That's one of the reasons why we've been doing a lot of work to combat reindeer crime. There is also one reason why the police have been given increased resources. We have increased the resources of the police by half a billion dollars from 2006 to 2008. We're proud of that, and we have to keep doing that. In addition to recrimination, rape rates have received a very, very high attention in Oslo. The action plan to combat violence in close relationships is an important part of that job. What Doorum points out is part of strengthening the police as a whole. This government has shown that it does. The government has ambitions for further strengthening the police also in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e325	The representative Khan said that one lives ten years longer on average on the Oslo west than on the Oslo east. It's always a fun gimmick to present. The working party's solution would probably be that it would have been an advantage if those who live on the Oslo west had lived a little shorter, because then the cut had become a little bit better. But the point is that there are other reasons than where you live that determine how long you live. If you could not have had a gigantic move from the Grorud Valley and up to Holmenkollen, everyone would live any longer. So it's a meaningless rhetoric. The point must be that there are other reasons why people live shorter in Oslo east than in Oslo west. What does Khan think politicians can rule for people in Oslo East to live as long as people in Oslo West do? Nor is it actually quite positive that people live long on the Oslo west, and that one should try to extend their lifetime even on the Oslo east. Is it the task of politicians to make people live longer, or is it perhaps the inhabitants themselves who have their own responsibility to try exercise, better diet, etc., and not to blame those who live in Oslo West for living shorter in Oslo East?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e332	It is not empty rhetoric to claim that people live 12 years longer if they live on Slemdal, than if they live on the Sagens. That's the actual information we've received from scientists working with the differences in living conditions in Oslo, just so it's said. I fully agree that it is very positive that people in Oslo West live twelve years longer than all of us in Oslo East, but I think we should do something about it. These differences are the reason why the government wants to do something with Søndre Nordstrand, do something with the Oslo action plan for the inner east, do something with all the inhabitants - because there is a very large proportion of Oslo's inhabitants - who live in Groruddalen. That is why we want to strengthen inclusion measures in the Oslo inner east and in the Groruddalen. That is why we focus on children and young people living in Søndre Nordstrand and in Groruddalen. That's also why we want to do something about the environment and the quality of life of people living in the Groruddalen. It's not empty rhetoric and pointless to claim what's actually true, and it's that those who live on the Oslo West live longer than those who live on the Oslo East. It should not be that where you live, you should decide whether you have a good life or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e341	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e344	In this case, we have a big message that well describes the situation in the capital and in the capital region. It is important to take into account that the Grossingsbericht is not only about Oslo, but also defines the Capital Region as beyond Oslo. What the message shows is that we have a capital and a capital area where most people have it both good and very good, live a good life, have great opportunities for both work and leisure, and it's greater and greater equality. In contrast to what Khan claimed, the differences are actually less. It's also a much less segregated city than before. As the majority of the committee states, Oslo is not a segregated city. Therefore, it is also pointless in the further discussion to deal with urban boundaries as an expression of differences in Oslo. Differences are much more individualised, and that also means that the instruments put in place in the future must be directed more towards individuals than towards entire urban areas, because the differences in urban areas are also, fortunately, more and more evidence that there is significant social mobility. The Capital Message we also have to take along as something we can collectively learn from. This notification has been requested from all parties and has been carried out by changing governments. The result is not convincing, because I fully agree with the case rapporteur that this paper does not show any difference in capital policy. Neither those engaged in politics, nor most people in Oslo, will notice in particular that the Storting has addressed this message, because the notification is essentially a summary of the situation in the capital, combined with a summary and overview of the policies pursued in the various sectoral areas of the state in the capital. It also shows that what matters most to Oslo, to the metropolitan area, is still strong local autonomy, and that Oslo itself is allowed to take responsibility for the development of Oslo, within the framework conditions that enable it. Then both this message and all the experience in the past show that Oslo is a capital, and thus the state is much stronger present in the capital than elsewhere. This means that the State also has a greater responsibility to contribute, together with local authorities, to the development of Oslo. The communication shows in several areas that there are current policies both from this government and from the previous government. As far as framework conditions are concerned, the situation is now ahead of us, which can have major consequences for the capital. There is no doubt that the previous government, through the big city announcement, through the conversion and change of the income system, made cities and the capital, with its particular challenges, more economically able to take responsibility for that situation. The government parties now clearly signal through the Sørheim Committee that they want to move in a different direction, both by losing their share of corporate tax, their share of the value creation that takes place in the capital, and by helping the capital to finance municipalities in other parts of the country to an even greater extent than now. Now I understand in Khan's representative that the Workers' Party is discussing the possibility of compensating for this in different ways. Well, the municipal income system is a zero-sum game, so if the Labour Party is planning to compensate for this, they must be honest to say that the municipalities in the rest of the country that had expected to get this money are getting less. If not, that claim becomes meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e369	Security is important for all citizens - also in Oslo. More people feel unsafe in this city, and Oslo has twice as many crimes per year. thousands of inhabitants as the national average. There is a link between liberal smoking policies, fighting and violence among and between people in an alcohol-induced state and police resource use in this context. In addition, it is important to note that a liberal search policy may have a negative impact on the living environment of people who have ghost sites in their community. Since 2000, the Oslo Police have strengthened the appropriations by about half a billion dollars. That's an increase of 50 pst. - an increase in changing governments is behind it. Does the Right, as a responsible civil party, see that a liberal pilfering policy leads to the use of excessive resources by the Oslo police on the consequences of such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e379	Oslo's bulwark policy is determined in Oslo's city government. The consequence of what Mr Stroemstad Olsen refers to here is that we in the Grand Duchy impose stricter national restrictions on the local assessment of the impact of the policy. If the Labour Party now believes so, they should definitely express this through concrete proposals, now that they have a majority government. I have recorded that the Minister of Justice has repeatedly attacked local politicians, not only in Oslo, but also in other parts of the country, with such claims. If the Workers' Party believes that local politicians should have less freedom of action at local level to assess what is sensible alcohol policy, they must come to the Stortinget with legislative proposals restricting the room for action of local politicians in this area. If not, this empty word - as in all other areas - becomes from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e386	Oslo is not a segregated city, says Bent Höie, and I agree with that. But that there's quite a difference between the urban areas, I expect Bent Höie also agrees. Compared to a lot of big cities in the United States, we can't say that Oslo is a segregated city -- I agree. But one of the reasons we've had the big bets in Oslo East -- we also have the big Groruddalen bet -- is that there's just a difference between the city areas. There is a need for a power cap in which the state must also involve itself in some important areas. But that's not what I'm going to ask. I'll ask Bent Höie about something else. The right agrees with the Progress Party in the wording that we should not control where people should live, people should be able to choose freely. This is a liberalist attitude, of course, most people agree with it. Fortunately, the right does not agree with the Progress Party when certain restrictions are to be imposed on immigrants. Is it concerned about the right-wing party vision of immigrants in view of possible future cooperation between the Progress Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e393	I believe that everyone who reads the big message and the setting, and everyone who joins in the debate on Norwegian integration and immigration policy, sees that there is a big difference in the approach to these questions from the Right and the Progress Party. We do not agree with any proposals that involve dividing the Norwegian population into groups. It will be completely contrary to our liberal fundamental vision, where we see the individual human being and the individual's possibilities in society as the most important basis for creating a positive development - not only for the individual human being, but also for society as a whole. In Oslo, the Right Party and the Progressive Party co-operate in urban councils, where they conduct a good social policy, and where they promote concrete proposals that lead to integration. If one succeeds with a good and conscious integration policy in Oslo, one succeeds with a good integration policy largely across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e400	The central party agrees that the best solutions for Oslo City will be found in the Oslo City Council. It is about the self-government that the representative, Höie, is also talking about. Should a person be free to act, a person must also have resources. We know that the Municipality of Oslo has also been given considerably larger resources after the Right-Registration was replaced with a red-green regime. In that image, a lot of people would argue that replacing the state council behind me with a new right-wing government in the Ministry of Local Affairs is a bigger threat to the well-being of Oslo than the Sørheim Committee represents. My question is simply: Can we expect Right's support for strengthening the municipal economy of Oslo and other municipalities in the country, and thus strengthening the free trade of municipalities and the well-being of the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e407	The municipalities get an equal share of the social shock under this government that they got under the previous government. The fact that the previous government made the foundation for a greater bake in society now also means that the local government's slice of cake is getting bigger. On the right, the overall framework of the municipal structure has been supported in both 2007 and 2008. There is no reason to believe that the Right should also be involved in ensuring that municipalities receive the same share of the social shock in the future. The difference between the Right and the current government is that we have a different device in the local economy. We have had a higher taxpayer than the government has proposed, and we have had a higher corporate taxidermist than the government has proposed. Now we are opposed to the conversions proposed by the Sørheim Committee. That means that in the years that have gone by, Oslo had received more money with the Right Order than what was received with the Government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e414	After all, the Municipal Committee has been travelling around the country, and we have discussed the Sørheim Committee uphills and downhill walls in many contexts. We have also received a clear message from right-wing representatives around the country that income balancing should be changed in relation to the current system, i.e. that we need a greater levelling of income, as suggested by the Sørheim Committee. Means the representative now Höie says that right-wing representatives around the country who want a different profile, a different income balancing - the Sørheim committee proposes an increase in the share from 55 pst. to 60 pst. Is there a problem with what the Right Central and the Right here in the Stortinget stand for? Or does Right say this especially for the occasion, since it's the capital we're dealing with? That's where you might want to lose on such a conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e419	No, this is not a message that is a custom case, which you might get the impression of when you hear the red-green representatives talking about this question here today. We have the same message wherever you are in the country. The most important thing for us is to keep company taxes and ensure that municipalities retain a share of the local value creation. This means that municipalities give greater priority to and facilitate value creation, and prioritize and facilitate development. In the suspension of the Capital Message, everyone points out that Oslo has a role as the capital of international competition with other capitals and other major cities in terms of location. Of course, if Oslo is interested in continuing the important job done by Oslo as a city internationally to highlight Norway in international competition, it is a significant point that the Municipality of Oslo is left with some of the tax revenues that result from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e428	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Would the representative Bent Höie like to comment on proposal No. 1 in the settings? - It's nodding. The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal to which it refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e435	Making government policies for a limited geographical area is not easy. It will not be easier when the area is the metropolitan area, where local and regional interests are so clear that they want little State intervention and participation. The majority have chosen to focus on areas where government policies directly overlap with the responsibilities of local and regional authorities. A capital message where the different parties and the different fractions go through the whole spectrum of the policy area is the safest way to avoid both the message and the setting on and off the screen killing the message and setting dead. The majority, i.e. The government parties, therefore, have chosen to raise a few areas where we clarify state policy. We've focused on three areas. First, we talk a lot about higher education, research and innovation. The higher education institutions are mainly state institutions. We say that in the triangle University of Oslo, University of Oslo and BI are some of the best and heaviest research and education environments in the country. It is the State that is primarily responsible for them. Around these heavy education and research institutions are the most important institutes, the most professional institutes in the country in their field. Therefore, it is important that these are used in a targeted innovation policy, that these state institutions take joint responsibility and are active in relation to innovation and value creation and the development of new jobs. We point to the different clusters that are established, where the institute sector and also universities and colleges are involved, and that this work needs to be developed so that we become even better at innovation and more knowledge-intensive activities. As point 2, we're bringing forward public transport. The State NSB is an important part of the collective network in this area. We point out that there has to be more money for the NSB. We also need better cooperation between the NSB and the regional and local companies. We underline the major challenges facing public transport - also in the light of the climate communication. Making people travel collectively, stimulating people to travel collectively, is perhaps one of the most important challenges we have in this area. We underline that capacity problems, both seat capacity and rail capacity, may be the biggest challenge to get more people to travel collectively in the area. In other words, there has to be a deliberate state investment in public transport to get more people to travel collectively. In the third area, we focus on the importance of state policies in terms of housing and housing policy. In Oslo it is approx. 1,500 homeless. It is unworthy and unacceptable. We can't have it this way in this country that people are going to be homeless. We stress that in the triangle the State House Bank, the Municipality of Oslo as the planning authority and the housing co-operation, there must be solutions to the housing problems in Oslo. This is not about allocating more resources to housing production in this country. We spend a lot of resources on housing production in this country, but we just don't get the number of homes we should, in a good way. So here's the question of using the different resources -- the state with the Husbank, Oslo Municipality as the planning authority and the housing co-operation -- and so get the number of dwellings needed. We have a major rental market challenge. More student homes in this area need to be built just to free up other rental projects, so that we get rid of the unworthy homelessness, and also get a certain number of homes that allow people to afford to settle in their own homes. So housing policy, public transport/transport policy and higher education and innovation are important governmental areas where the state and Oslo municipalities and regional authorities have to play in a completely different way from what they are doing today in order to have a greater impact on the overall policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e455	The representative was involved in important areas. Public transport and Oslopackak 3 - the largest road traffic operation in Oslo in Norway - were mentioned by the representative. Oslo Package 3 is important for Oslo, Akershus and the whole country. It is important that traffic and the closure of public transport operate in this area. The government has promised that they will contribute 12 billion kroner to Oslopackak 3, which, by the way, the Progress Party believes is far too small. But why won't the government and government parties guarantee these 12 billion dollars? Is the representative concerned about the great uncertainty and unrest among the inhabitants and public transport users in the Oslo area when they are unsure whether these funds come from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e461	No, I'm not worried at all. Oslopackak 3 goes into a 20-year perspective. I feel reasonably confident that the Storting in annual budgets in the future will grant the money to - the 12 billion DKK to be included in Oslopackak 3. So I'm not worried about that at all. This is trying to create a policy of terror for which there is no basis. No matter what kind of government we have after 2009, I feel confident that they will follow up Oslopackak 3. The worst thing is that I feel confident that also a government where the Progress Party may be in, will also join in and follow up Oslopackak 3. So I'm not worried at all. What delights me with Oslopackakt 3 is that we now have a system where a greater part of the revenue from the toll stations can also be used for the operation of public transport. That's the biggest and most important thing in Oslopack 3. That way, we can manage both to build up and keep prices in public transport, which means that we can eventually make people travel collectively in a completely different way from what they do today. There's no need to worry, and I feel safe about that. I also say that to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e470	A guarantee, in other words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e475	State and Oslo must play in important matters," says Rolf Rekovam. I fully agree with that. But then I want to focus on another area, the nursery area, because there still criticises SV Oslo because the capital has not achieved full kindergarten coverage. First, Oslo's challenges in kindergarten are due to strong population growth and, second, a lack of municipal land and buildings. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has promised Oslo both state plots and state buildings, but so far there has been no offer from the Government. So far, it's just been empty promises. When will the Government make words of action and offer state plots and state buildings? When does Rolf Reikvam think that the state and the municipality of Oslo are going to play teams in relation to the kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e480	I think the example was poorly chosen, because there is some area where the government has arranged, put the money on the table and said: here is the money, construction! it's within this sector. In the case of kindergartens, the state has in many ways just opened the bag and said, "Build!" Money comes from a mountain, and it's not common in government policy. So here, Oslo Municipality alone is responsible for the construction of kindergartens. In this case, there is no one else to blame. In other areas, you may be blamed on the state, but just when it comes to kindergarten and kindergarten development, Oslo Municipality has received, and they know that they get, the grant that everyone else gets. For each nursery place they build, they receive grants. Here it's just to say to the Municipality of Oslo: Build! Then the money comes from a mountain. It should be done by the municipality of Oslo in the same way as by other municipalities. There is not a single reason Oslo Municipality should not do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e485	The government has told them to fight poverty. It is also important to look at the capital and its challenges. If one thing the representative of Rikvam spoke little about in his speech, it was the targeted poverty reduction policy that must be involved in assessing the whole against the challenges of the capital. Now Rikvam was concerned with this issue of housing policy, and that is important, but where is the targeted policy? It was about the broad policy - and there are many people who need reasonable housing, we agree - but do we want to see a more targeted housing policy in the next state budget? Will we get an extension and an improvement of the housing support system, which is a very targeted measure? And what about other targeted measures to combat poverty among those who have the least, including in the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e494	I agree with Bjørg Tørresdal that perhaps the most targeted measure to combat poverty is the housing support scheme. It works very well, and it's important to expand it. So I sincerely hope that we get it in 2009. It's my wish, precisely because it's a very good tool in relation to poverty. There are many other measures also - social assistance rates and all this is important - but I feel absolutely sure that what hits best is a real commitment to housing support. It's a good arrangement because it doesn't seem stigmatizing, while it hits exactly those who need it. It is a long time for the budget to be presented, but I sincerely hope that there we can make visible an increased investment in housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e499	First, through the President, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Requam, for his firmness at the Oslopak 3 conciliation. It's a relationship that can be needed when we see how the government temporarily signals. We'll see where it lands. But then to the matter: the representative spoke with great strength and enthusiasm about the research and innovation environments in Oslo and the Oslo region, and he does so with great justice. It is a lot to be proud of here, but we would like to use the old socialist slogan from Sweden: «Be proud, but not satisfied». That means that you are proud of what you get, but you are not “satisfied” if you can’t get more. Here it is a core problem that the Government, as represented by Rikham, cuts in basic appropriations for research and underfunds the research institutes. It doesn't provide any real plan to get scientific equipment, and it doesn't make any financial arrangements to recruit researchers. When the representative Rikvam goes so high on the track as he did here, with great cause, on behalf of both Oslo, the Oslo region and the country, does he not see a problem in the fact that the Government delivers so little of the promises that lie both in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the Government's former defences and accepted by the Research Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e510	There has been a commitment to research, but in relation to the goal of 3 pst., which we all stood together a few years ago, we haven't come any more, and it's just a complaint. We should have come further in relation to the research effort. But at the same time, there is a lot of good in research. In 2007, it was produced - sorry, the term ‘produced’, i.e. passed - over 1,000 doctorates in this country. There is a very conscious commitment to this part of research: what is going on in research education, research recruitment and training. So I think it happens very much positive. It happens very well, but not enough. I agree with Odd Einar Dørum that this should have happened even more. But what was my point of stressing research so strongly was just that here's the best knowledge environment we have. We need to be more aware of working against the environment around us, both with innovation and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e519	The State and the Municipality of Oslo have a joint venture on Søndre Nordstrand and in Groruddalen. It is good and has the full support of the Progress Party. So it turns out that this investment has led to a big bureaucracy, that is. that much of the money to be invested goes to bureaucracy, administration and planning, as the representative of Bohemia has been in the media and said. This is believed to be due to the Plankontoret for Groruddalen. Now this government has centralized and centralized the initiative on the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand, so that there are four departments and probably a number of bureaucrats working on these matters in addition to the Plankontoret for Groruddalen. The Progress Party is promoting a concrete proposal in today's position, and wonders whether we can get the Government's support for it, because it will be in line with what Bohemia has been out in the newspapers and said. The proposal states: ‘The Government is asked to entrust as far as possible tasks with regard to developments in the Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand to local elected representatives of the City Council and the relevant Urban Committees.’ Does the representative Rikham agree with this, and will the Government support this proposal, so that there will be less bureaucracy and more local governance of the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e533	If there's a lot of bureaucracy, I shouldn't say. But this is the same thing as what we said in our attitude when we granted these 50 million. kr for the bet up in Groruddalen. We said that this should be managed at the lowest possible level, so this is completely in line with what the majority said in their budget position. I recommend Tybring-Gjedde to go back and look at the Committee's budgetary position. It was precisely there that this money should be managed and disposed of at the lowest possible level, but in cooperation between state authorities, municipal authorities and the urban community. I agree in principle -- the money out, the money down, the administration down there -- it's the one who has the shoe on, who knows where it prints. But, as I said, it is entirely in line with what the committee said when we were discussing the budget now before Christmas. So the recommendation for the Progress Party is: Read the setting again. Then they'll see this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e542	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e546	The Capital Message--yes, what's our dream for Oslo? What are our targets? I wish the Capital Message had been a document full of visions, a message that pointed out the long-term goals and dreams of creating the world's best capital. How is Oslo going to get drunk? How is Oslo going to be a place where people don't risk being raped? How is Oslo going to be a city where everyone has a place to live? How will Oslo become the most environmentally friendly capital in Europe? How can Oslo become a city where no one is discriminated against, a city that is best in the world to integrate? We learned in the social sciences at school that America is a melting pot and Europe is a fruit salad. I want to say that Oslo today is a fruit barrel. But I would like to work towards Oslo becoming a melting pot too - a city where an employer does not respond to whether the jobseeker's name is Ali or Ole. It's nice and instructive with a description of today's reality. But I miss the message that the look is being lifted. Oslo is a city with special and special challenges. The government's capital message is going to be very nice words, but it doesn't have the power to address the real issues. Do we want to notice any change in Oslo because of the capital message? Nope. We're probably not going to change the timing before and after the capital message. But I don't want to blackmail the situation in Oslo. I also don't want to do like the Progress Party, which seems to think that the immigrants are the root of all evil. The vast majority of people living in Oslo are actually doing very well. They thrive. I think most people have a positive impression of Oslo. I've asked some young people from different parts of the country what chords they think about when they think about Oslo. Margrethe, a 28-year-old girl from Stavanger says, "It's a capital, she thinks of the King, in stable weather, of variation in people." A regular boy from Mo in Rana answers: The city I love over all the cities of Norway. It's nice, it's cool, it's rich in content, it's good food, fast development and culture, but it's also prostitutes. Jon Kristian from Bømlo says, "When he thinks about Oslo, he thinks about drug addicts, about Holmenkollen, about Karl Johan and the Castle. And the last thing I'm going to quote is Anne Linn from Romsås, who says, with Oslo, I think about diversity and a dirty city full of people, and I think about a cold city. If one sums up these little representatives who speak about the capital, it's almost just positive associations. Oslo is our capital, and the whole country has a relationship with Oslo. Maybe this was a little high floating. I'll come down on the ground again. Let's do drugs first. There is a theme in the Capital Message. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the diversity of treatment and rehabilitation needs for drug users is weakened after the drug reform. The funding system appears to help municipalities refer only to healthcare business-funded treatment and no longer use the rehabilitation services operated by voluntary organisations. This has meant that diversity and flexibility in the provision of services are impaired and that the treatment queue is longer than is strictly necessary. I hope the government will take this into account. Public aid should not facilitate the use of drugs, as the system of injection rooms actually involves. I believe that the money spent on injection rooms should instead be spent on other drugs. The Christian People's Party is committed to lowthreshold measures, but others other than drug injection rooms, such as health services and care services, which have as their primary objective the reduction of the adverse effects of drug abuse and which do not maintain drug use. The system of injection rooms involves legalising drug use. This is clearly contrary to the ban on the placing on the market, use and storage of narcotic drugs in criminal law. In the 2005 annual report, the International Office for Drugs and Drug Addiction pointed out that a system of injection rooms does not comply with the UN Conventions on Drugs. The evaluation of injecting rooms does not provide any indication of needle and syringe rooms having reduced overdose mortality. This was one of the objectives of the injection room system, and from that perspective the injection room test was clearly unsuccessful. It is time to finish the injection room test. So finally to prostitution. Criminalisation of the purchase of sex is a matter I've been very committed to. It is gratifying that there is now a majority in this Chamber to adopt the law that is being consulted. We need to see and learn from the experience in Sweden and introduce criminalisation, but we also need to have other measures that provide the prostitutes with an alternative. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 4 and 5 in the setting, which we're behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e572	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e577	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party agrees with the Workers' Party both in terms of the criminalisation of sex purchases, and in terms of the measures to get girls out of prostitution that must also be there. But I want to challenge the representative on what she was about to do at the very end, namely, fights. According to the report, there are nearly 3,800 injecting drug users in Oslo, and they come from all over the country. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Workers' Party - and so did the representative - in terms of low-threshold offers for these. But unlike the majority, who believe that a heating room should be set up in Oslo, where food, drink and information on duties and rights and different treatment offers are available, the Christian People's Party is opposed to this. Does the Christian People's Party really mean that we should not help the all, the worst in the urban community with a place to be? This is about the seventh and last of all about human dignity and taking care of those who have really fallen outside the city community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e584	Those people who have fallen outside the support systems of society, who really need support, are very important for the Christian People's Party. We want to spend the money plus more on combating poverty, combating drug abuse and creating a dignity for our drug users. We don't think injection rooms are the answer. I would recommend the representative to read the evaluation carried out by SIRUS, which has been ordered by the Department, and which concludes that the main objective, which was to reduce the number of overdose deaths, is not met. In addition, this evaluation problematizes the premises - they are little used, there are bad opening hours - and one does not recommend a continuation. The Christian People's Party is opposed to drug injection rooms, but in fact it is also doing the external evaluation. I recommend that someone take it seriously and consider again whether injection rooms are the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e591	I feel that Bjørg makes it a little easy for herself when she starts talking about that this message and the setting lack visions - where are the visions, where are the dreams, etc. If Bjørg is going to find visions and dreams, it might be easier to go to poetry. But I think that in what we're writing about, the three areas that I came up with - education and research, housing policy, transport policy - and also climate policy, there were some visions. So when Bjørg was going to put her vision into practice, she was talking about no injection rooms and problems - these are big problems - and that we have to do more in that area. Now Bjørg only has one minute, but beyond the injection rooms, beyond the troubles in Oslo and that we have to do something about it, what are the visions, what are the dreams of the Christian People's Party regarding Oslo and the capital, if you're going to go on with visions and dreams for the Oslo region?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e596	I thank you for the question. I took the most important thing first. The important thing is to do something for those who need it the most. That's why it's important to do something about prostitution, so it's important to do something about drugs, and we have to do it first. If I'm going to choose a big vision that I hope we can work very focused on, it's about the environmental challenge. Then it's about public transport, it's about that here we have a problem that increases a lot, we have to reverse that development, and we have to make Oslo a collective city. It's part of the dreams I have for the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e601	Oslo is the city where the new Norway shows its face. Here we have everything from Muslims, Buddhists, atheists, Christians who live and live side by side. We can adopt action plans against discrimination, we can have introduction programmes, we can have trim centres for minority women and have better Norwegian training. But I know that the Christian People's Party is a political party that has always been very concerned with volunteering, and the Workers' Party believes that voluntary Norway - organisations, private foundations - should be used more in the fight to promote inclusion, in the fight against racism and to do something to make Oslo a more diverse and inclusive city. How will the Christian People's Party challenge the volunteer in Oslo to contribute more to getting a more open and inclusive capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e606	Saera Khan's introduction to the line was as if I had said it myself. Indeed, it is the volunteers who can do the job where the public effort, which is important, ends. Where it ends, the volunteer has to take over. That's what we've seen from the United States, which is very good at integration. We believe that the aid schemes in place today are likely to expand. Currently, the State budget supports non-governmental organisations that have targeted work in relation to integration. Among others, KIA does a very good job in relation to homework, follow-up of individual families, children, etc. I think that with increased financial support, these organizations, which are doing a lot of hard work, will be able to make a significantly greater effort, only they will get a few employees to organize the hard work. Many large organisations have now been involved in this work, not least the Norwegian Church has engaged in migrant work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e611	The Christian People's Party has been against the injection room all the way, so it is not surprising that Bjørg Tørresdal is using every opportunity to argue against the injection room model as it appears here in Oslo. The criticisms made in the report referred to by Mr Tørresdal in his speech and in a previous reply show first and foremost one thing: it shows that the way in which we have organised the Norwegian injection room model is not optimal. And then I have two challenges for Bjørg Tørresdal. I understand that Bjørg Tørresdal has never worked in the injection room. I have, and I've talked to the people who are there, and I've seen how this can work as a temptation and a place where you can decently inject. So you could say this is to open a room where it's legal to use heroin, and that's absolutely right. The question is: Will Bjørg Tørresdal be with me and do a job in the injection room and be there and talk to the people who are there? And will Bjørg Tørresdal take part in a debate on how the successful experiences from other countries can also be implemented in the Norwegian injection room model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e616	I would like to welcome the invitation to attend the injection room. I have visited many other organisations and treatment services in Oslo - I would like to join the injection room. But the evaluation that I am producing is an evaluation that is not commissioned by politicians, but by the ministry for an external evaluation. When a person does not recommend continuing, it is both because of the mentioned circumstances, which have been deficient, and also because one has not had the desired effect in terms of its purpose. And if you have not achieved your goals, I think that both the Swedish Labour Party and the entire government should ask themselves: was this the right measure? We agree that we should have low-threshold services, we should provide care, we should provide health services, we should provide support and treatment, but the evaluation says that injecting rooms are not the answer. And then we all have to go in ourselves and figure out if we're not going to listen a little bit to what's coming out of this evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e621	But then I think Bjørg Tørresdal has a too narrow view of this. There are two things I think she should answer. One thing is going on: Instead of looking at the Norwegian injection room project in a narrow way, look at what the evaluation from drug injection room projects around the world shows. It shows two things. This shows, first of all, that there are no people who die when they inject syringes into injection rooms. In itself, there should be something that makes it appropriate to recruit more of those who are drug addicts, in order to help them put their syringes in injection rooms. When I was visiting, there was an overdose there, and if it had happened out there, he probably had a significantly greater chance of dying. It's a positive side that you have to take with you. The second is that the Norwegian injection room model is narrower both in relation to what you can inject and in relation to opening times than very many others are, and then you should grab hold of it and not just do as Bjørg Tørresdal, have a position and just close with that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e629	I agree that you should read the report with an open mind. But the report says something about it being a very limited use. It is a costly offer, but over two operational years, 383 users have used the injection room, of which two thirds have used it twice or less per year. months. So it's about a very limited use, the evaluation confirms. We're going to go in and look at the evaluation together and read it carefully. I would like to call for change and resolution and at least take the evaluation seriously, because here it is pointed out that one has not achieved the targets and has not reduced the totality of overdose deaths, and that should be our goal for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e634	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e637	The entire capital of the country, Oslo, is easy to be pleased with. From being a country’s city like all other Norwegian cities, it has become a big city – a big city with its diversity and the big city’s challenges. With beautiful Karl Johan, Spikersuppa, ski slopes, beautiful archipelago and many green lungs, we can all agree that Oslo is a beautiful city, a capital to be proud of. A journey through Oslo is an exciting and challenging journey. Both in appearance, the people who live there, and in culture, the neighborhoods differ greatly. This is exciting, but sometimes also a little scary when we look behind the façades. Because the differences are big in this city. Here we find the best quiet and the worst quiet in the country. Here we find the beautiful villas of Smestad and the pitiful homes where young and old with broken dreams are located. Oslo is a rich city. In Norway, we have a rich metropolitan region, a metropolitan region with strong population development and youth surpluses. There is a lot of good going on in Oslo, but unfortunately there are too many people who don't like it very well. This is not just a local challenge to address. It's a national challenge. Lifetime differences from city to city are frighteningly high when we know that the average life expectancy of a man varies by up to 12 years between different towns. There is a lot of heat in the city here, but unfortunately not everyone can share in the heat, and neither the state nor the municipality can fix everything. It's in the interaction between the municipality, state and civil society we find the solutions. The state doesn't help people out of solitude. The state is not the one putting a warm hand around the drug addict who has completed his judgment. The Capital Message is a message that describes the breadth of challenges and opportunities in this region, and I am pleased that it is characterized by a spirit that it is in common that we can make this region an even better region for more of those who live here. In this message, fortunately, a little blind belief in the state's going to go in and sort things out. The metropolitan region from Mjösa in the north to Drammensfjorden in the south is, with some small exceptions, an area of growth. Addressing growth in this region has been and is one of the biggest challenges. Just Oslo’s important role as the country’s capital is a major cause of growth, with the challenges posed by the increased pressure problems. It's an advantage for the whole country to have a strong and well-functioning capital, but my claim is that the growth we see today in this region, not only is positive. Strong growth over time creates challenges for those living here and for public services. My claim is that, in the deepest sense, Oslo will benefit from a better district policy. In this region we have a great population diversity. 32 pst. of the non-western population in Norway lives in Oslo, and diversity is also rich in the municipalities around Oslo. This has created growth opportunities, but it also creates challenges. Some of the challenging challenges we face in terms of integration are precisely seen in the Capital Region. We are looking at the fact that professional participation in individual groups is alarmingly low, that too many are in a recipient role, and unfortunately we also see it on several other indicators. Mechanisms that over time can lead to the marginalisation of individual groups create a ground for conflict. In the Capital Communication, a great deal of space is being used in this region as a diverse region with the challenges and opportunities it provides, and there is a clear focus on qualification and work, so that everyone gets to be part of the sprawl of a society. A balanced development is important for a country as it is for a city. The fact that the state, together with the Municipality of Oslo, is embarking on separate packages to raise areas with special challenges, as has been done in District Norway, is good and important. The effort we are now seeing in the Grorud Valley is absolutely necessary, and the committee has been so lucky to be visiting, and we have seen all the local enthusiasm that the fragmentation between the state and the local environment leads to in that context. The Capital Region is a great region, but it has growing pain. In common between the state, the municipalities and the inhabitants who live here, I hope that even more in this region will be lifted from the difficult situation that too many are in now. Oslo is a great capital that we have reason to be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e663	The representative said that Oslo was easy to be happy about. He honoured Oslo, and he told me how important Oslo is to the whole country. He then suggested that a good regional and regional policy would reduce the pressure problems in the metropolitan region. I would like to ask the representative: what problems in the capital will be reduced? Is he also thinking about state institutions to be moved out of the capital? Is this the kind of rural policy and regional policy that the representative is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e668	I think it's important for a country and a region to have a smooth and good development. We see that a very strong growth in this region creates challenges in terms of higher housing prices and traffic problems. We see that in the case of asthma and allergies, Oslo is one of the cities in Norway with the biggest problems. The pressure and the population development we have around Oslo city creates challenges for those who already live here, and therefore it is important that we manage to achieve the most balanced development possible, so that growth does not become too strong. There will be an increase in the cost of housing, and there will be even greater pressure on road and rail networks to detonate capacity in this region. Therefore, it is important for the Centre Party and for the Government to have the most balanced development possible. One of the important elements is where to locate future government jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e673	The government parties are now working to decide on the so-called Sørheim Committee's position, which has proposed major changes to the municipal income system. The centre party member has supported the changes, and the two central government ministers have both been out there supporting the idea of a stronger redistribution of municipal income. The Sørheim Committee also proposes that the district grant and the North Norway grant be combined into one grant. The municipalities affected by the merger will be part of the so-called INGAR system which causes the annual reduction per year. the population becomes small and thus manageable. Municipalities like Oslo that lose both changes in company tax and changes in redistribution will not be covered by the same system and will thus have to take a loss of half a billion dollars in one year. What is the reason why the Central Party believes it is fair that Oslo should take such a large loss of one year, while the district councils should avoid such a loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e680	In the course of the two years that we have had the pleasure of sitting with the municipal minister, we, together with the other two government parties, have made a big leap for the municipal sector. 50pst. the income of the municipal sector derives from taxes. So we see that it's Oslo and the tax-rich regions that have got the most of the growth. Oslo has major challenges, so it's good that they've had a lot of growth, but when we're going to design a future income system, it's important that we manage to achieve an income system that balances the growth of the different regions against each other. That's what the Sørheim Committee wants, to get the most balanced development between the city and the country, in order to achieve a smooth and good development in the income of the municipal sector throughout the country, in order to correct the imbalances we see today. So that's our answer: we want a stable development, and we want a further escalation also for Oslo, but we think today's arrangement makes it one too strong bias.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e687	With regard to the treatment of drug users, the Christian People's Party points out that the new funding system has resulted in municipalities, and especially in Oslo, not using all the treatment services provided by voluntary organisations. Rather, they choose the offers that go through health businesses, because they respond financially. We have pointed this out and will encourage the government and government parties to find a solution. We're a little disappointed that the Center Party won't be with us at that point. There is an unintended effect of this method of funding which has led to the continued use of the voluntary organisations’ drug treatment services, while the queues for treatment are increasing. Can we trust that the Center Party will stand on to address this challenge and solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e692	Before I became a staging representative, the drug field was one of the areas in which I worked a lot. I was also active in the volunteer organizations in the field of drugs. There are many reasons why we get the troubles that we all have to take responsibility for, but the solution is precisely in the interaction between the public and the voluntary sector. I fully agree with the Christian People's Party's remarks that you have to follow this with your argus eyes and look at evolution. If we're going to be able to solve the problems, we also need warm hands, and we find many of them in the voluntary sector. Here, together, we need to look at the best solutions for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e699	Citizens here in the country who are struggling with intoxication need warm hands, but they also need an empathetic and intelligent bureaucracy. The left, together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, has made a proposal in the vote that the State should also actively, in the same way as the municipality, ensure that there will be an interaction and not a blackmail in health care and care. It is completely unintelligible to me that the representative who just made a nice and strong speech about the rush cannot vote for it. It is incomprehensible that the government parties cannot vote in favour of a proposal to ensure that it becomes an interaction rather than a black player. Because it's this interaction that makes a person with drug problems become a citizen and not a parcel post. I'll give you some examples: 2006–2007 was 25pst. breach of time limits in the specialist treatment in Health East before becoming «Health Largest». Then you would walk to a place in Eastfold -- that's what the few -- to get a second chance. However, had it been imposed by the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, it would have been possible to interact, as I understood the representative Vedum was talking about. So why can't you support this proposal and the thoughts behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e707	Unfortunately, we see many places in the public sector that the representative Dørum pointed out. We see it in the care of the elderly and also in the hospital sector. Hospitals print out too early, and you move people between different posts. This is a major challenge, and we do not have enough systems for it today. This is why, among other things: The centre party called for a reform of primary and secondary health services, to look at how we can get better interaction, but we don't have the good solutions yet. We're just as concerned with the problem as the left is, but we don't have the whole answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e712	In the previous ageing period, the opposition ordered the then government to open up a testing scheme with injection rooms in Oslo. The testing scheme is nearing the end and, although the objective of the testing scheme was very unclear, the evaluation is at least clear that the scheme has not worked and that alternative use of these means in relation to harm-reduction measures is likely to have produced better results. Norway has also received criticism from the International Office for Drugs and Drug Addiction for it, in reality, the legalisation of drugs and drug use that such a testing scheme implies. Will the Central Party stand together with the Right and Christian People's Party to terminate such a system once and for all when the test order is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e719	I have personally been looking at the harm reduction policy pursued by the Netherlands. For a long time, they have pursued a policy of harm reduction in very many areas. I am therefore also familiar with the liberalisation of the hashish policy that has been seen there. I am personally sceptical about the belief that harm reduction policy is the answer to the challenges we face. Personally, I am also sceptical that injection rooms are the answer to the challenges we face. It's been the Center Party, and so were we in the last period. But we're going to discuss it, take it seriously and look at the evaluation, and then we'll see where the way goes. At least that's not the main answer, but it could be one tool. However, I am sceptical about whether it will solve many problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e726	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e729	This is going to be a witness from a city citizen, a "city file" and a city commissioner, and it's like this: Oslo is a beautiful and beautiful city. It's a rough town. It's a city that gives great space to people. It is characterized by the great intimacy, the short distance between the buildings of power and green areas, where people live. Oslo is Europe's most intimate capital, and it is a compact capital. In view of this, we get a classic Norwegian large document, and nothing wrong said about it. But let's look at the actions: In the environment and climate, Oslo City Council has adopted a very ambitious climate action plan that meets in a national compromise between the government parties, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Then oslopolitans and akershuspolitans have put together what is called Oslopakt 3, which has a 20-year perspective, and where the whole point is that politicians should think far beyond the short term. In the matter that follows, I note with great pleasure at least that the majority of the committee - all parties except the Progress Party, which has its own financing arrangements - is at Oslopackak 3. They're on perspective. It's nice. Then it's very important that the government, when it's dealing with this in the next round, realizes the energy that local politicians are willing to give each other their hands -- to use an expression from the labour movement -- and hold on so much that you don't put anything into play. It's a responsibility that it's worth taking seriously, what's shown by local politicians in Oslo and Akershus together. Similarly, when you come up with a national transport plan, you take the double-track to Ski that now has no place, so that public transport becomes something that is not only good in terms of the fact that the tram in Oslo has gone from being a history of traffic to being - I kept saying - the city hall on the rails and a rolling pavement, and which is a sparkly good description of the interactions of the state with promotion measures, local bets and great efforts of those who are working on this - a very nice starting point. In the same way, as the representative Rikvam rightly spoke about, with the research. Yes, that's when you meet it in the metropolitan region of Oslo, where we're in half of the country's research, and make sure you have decent, proper research budgets, recruitment plans and scientific equipment. Then you have to make sure to prioritize it in the large budgetary and monetary seas that the current government has, with 130 billion more dollars available than it had in 2005. It gives you a chance if you want. That way you'll also be able to harness and meet the energy that's here, which is an energy that's connected to the energy in other parts of the country. Let me make it clear: I'm not an Oslo politician who thinks that you're going to be a big one to go to other parts of the country. My Oslo parole sounds like this: Be proud, but not content, and be very generous to others. Because I can see the roughness and strength of a sun marshmallow founder at the end of the gulf on Sandøy, who tells of wellboats and says he has a lot to pick up in Rio de Janeiro and less on Drammensvejen. I understand that, and I understand in the same way how people across the country and across the capital will give each other their hands. But this capital must then also be dealt with in that way by the Government when we get to Oslopack 3. When we get to climate change, and when we get to the research budget. The Oslo School is perhaps the most complex school in this country, and I think people should take along that while the Muhammed War, the caricature War, crashed, they dealt with it in the Oslo School. It didn't raise much awareness, but it should arouse curiosity -- that you've actually created what you've done, that you've got the dialogue that makes you have a lot to be proud of and a lot to be happy about. To have the security of the capital as, among other things, The representative Saera Khan talked about, you get to make sure the police get more people. It means a higher admission to the Police College, as a minority in the Committee writes, of at least 550. It means civil positions, at least 90 new in the year, as a minority in the committee writes, because the civil positions relieve the police of practical tasks such as driving detainees to a courtroom, or taking care of them on smooth cell. In all of these areas, you can do something if you want. And the will lies here at the intersection of the Government and what you do locally. It's also true that people in the Grorud valley and on Søndre Nordstrand know very well, and that they don't need to be detailed in the way that they're going to use wise means. Everything in this city speaks for people locally have a very good sense and are able to manage it properly. But then finally, the left has put a proposal in the committee position together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which is about to break the blackmail for those who are in need, asking that the state also take an independent initiative through health businesses to meet municipal measures, just to give each other their hands. It's totally unimaginable that while you're in the mind box, you can't do anything as simple as listen to the practitioners of life, who say that black player games are broken if two parties are to have a duty to meet and give each other their hands at the same time. The fact that you voted against it, it's as incomprehensible as it was when we had the Kuf Committee the other day, where the majority, the government parties, were against the external sensor, until they came up with the good idea that they should vote for it. So there was a raised mood in the main hall finally. I hope the lifting is that you give your hands to the drunk. Proposal No. 3 ensures it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e753	Right around the corner here, prostitutes work every night. They humiliate each night, they humiliate each night, and they humiliate as humans and as women. Many of them know nothing about the beautiful city of Oslo; they know nothing about Holmenkollen or fjord. What they know about Oslo are men who buy their bodies. This is unworthy. It's trampling on human dignity. We know that there won't be prostitution without men buying sex. The Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have programmed that we want a law that prohibits sex purchase, as well as a number of measures to get girls out of prostitution through, for example, the use of drugs. Crisis Secretariat, PRO Centre or other institutions. Will the Left be with us both to support such a law and the measures that get girls out of prostitution in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e760	The left will be involved in action, but not in law. I have the same attitude as I had when I worked with the Nadheim project in the Church's Bymition. Nadheim had the same view as the PRO center, that criminalization would hardly do better for girls. It would push the girls a lot tougher than the pimps and organized criminals, and there's no funny group. Here we come to a point where the representative and I very much agree, and it is in the fight against trafficking, trafficking in human beings and slave trade, where I would like to commend the sitting government for following up previous action plans made in 2002 and 2004 by the Bondevik II Government, and to include these in a new trafficking plan, and also to the Storberg, which has done a job for the Oslo Police to bet on this. Then it becomes quite important to do so, but I would like to advise the representative that Oslo City Council should also be followed up by unanimous decisions, with the agreement of the Workers' Party, to give order police regulations in Oslo to stop anyone who is aggressive and ongoing on the street, whether in the form of begging, sales or prostitution. In other words, there is a sum of such measures. My life with those who have worked among the most outnumbered, has taught me that the Medicine of the Workers Party is not the right one, even though I understand the ideals of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e767	Today, we have one legal tag wall in Oslo - in Hausmannsgate - and several other townspeople are considering setting up legal tag walls. According to the police, these legitimate tag walls lead to very much illegal tagging and to dramatic costs for the Oslo Police and Resource Use to deal with these issues. Oslo Sporveier reports that they're spending 50 million. kr per year to clean and clean up the T-cars inside and outside. The left has the key in Oslo City Council to do it illegal again with legitimate tag walls, i.e. that the Left has taken part in a decision enabling the Municipal Committees themselves to adopt this decision. This, of course, can be defended with local democracy. Looking at the dramatic consequences of the legal tag wall and the possible consequences of several tag walls, will the Left now turn back on this issue, so that Oslo Sporveier can spend the money on what they are going to spend on, namely public traffic, and so that the Oslo Police can use resources on what they are going to do, as it is important to do, to fight crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e774	Pigs for Oslo Sporveier are not graffiti, nor is it legal. There is also no urban part that can be determined in Oslo. You can choose to put a wall on a farm, like you've done on Hausmania. The representative must stick to the factual facts. There's a huge difference between tagging and doing damage -- it should be taken for -- and the graffiti eggs, which stay there until the city councils take them down. I'm actually proud to have been involved in the existence of Hausmania as a measure in Oslo. It started under the government of Bondevik I, when one made sure that there was a rent under the motto ‘People need houses, and houses need people’. A solution was created, and rules of play were created. In fact, I was present as an alternate in Oslo City Council and provided for a majority. It was one of the golden moments in my life where Rune Gerhardsen and I looked alike on a matter and even could say nice things to each other because we got to things we were deeply agreed on. We weren't for crime. We were against that. We were because when you run the city, there's also room for some subcultures, and then we get to assume that people in the subcultures follow the rules. If they don't, we're going to have to take them because the citizens are breaking the law. I am to protect the law and take citizens, but I am against collective punishment of those who have any rights. I'm against tagging, but for regulated graffiti. Graffiti does not include trams.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e781	There was a lot of energy and maybe a little less substance it went in, from the skipper on Sunnmare down to the osloskolen. The substance was, among other things, Oslopackakt 3, and I'll come back to that a little bit. But first of all, this is prostitution. Now it is not mentioned so much in the message and settings. But I'm recording that the Left won't be involved in criminalizing whorecrowds. The experience from Sweden is quite clear that this is an instrument for, among other things. to combat and reduce such crime. There is no doubt that the criminalisation of whores has helped reduce the amount of prostitution. It is not possible to hide behind saying that this will mean that prostitution is going underground. This is overall a good tool, so I had very much hoped that they would be involved. But then to Oslopackak 3. There is, in fact, a doubt as to whether the State will be involved in financing these twelve billions in Oslo-Pacific 3 in this 20-year perspective. I believe that the Left has no doubts about this and that the State will be involved in financing its share.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e791	I know well what has happened in Sweden. There is no doubt that prostitution has been hunted into enclosed spaces. There is also no doubt that a person is driving a street renovation. I've seen quite a number of Swedish men -- I kept saying -- on a snow, going to the Baltic states to do what it's not allowed to do in Stockholm streets. So the representative and I can disagree, but with the background of both the Nadheim project and the PRO-center, I don't want to worry about this situation. I have the impression that criminalisation strengthens the hallucinations and forces the backers. I do not see that as the purpose of the representative, but that is my view. Then I'm very strong to go after those who are doing this, and I'm also, of course, strong for the ethical rules that all Norwegian companies should take with them when they go abroad. So to Oslopak 3: I believe in the strong will that lies in the committee position, and that among other things. The representative of Truls Wickholm will say something about, in a moment. I just want to leave this, so that we can also make the next promise, which is the political treatment of the national transport plan, where we have received an administrative treatment so far. So here we stand together, representative Rikvam - through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e802	The representative Doorum held an engaging post, where the vigilance of the city he represents shone through in a good way. Scientists believe that unhealthy urban air in Norway demands 350 lives a year, and maybe 100 of them in Oslo. We know that 20,000 children have asthma in this city. These are problem settings that at least we in the Center Party want to take seriously. That is why we have proposed, in addition to strengthening public transport and other interventions in that area, a rush-time charge to limit transport to the city. The left is an environmental party. They want to be an environmental party. What I'm excited about is: What's the left's view of introducing a rush-time charge in Oslo, and will the representative Dørum work for and be aware that such a rush-time charge will come into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e811	Rushtime charges are included in the Left Program. In the case of Oslopackak 3, we have deviated from this in the common package that is made, because we get about. half of the taxation of motorists and State resources for public transport and investment in public transport. So we know that this area on the collective side, that if you ever thought about a rush time charge, we would from now on -- given that all things came into place and packed fees -- spend at least four years building up the public transport until it gets such a standard that it can deliver. But we've made a deal. The right was willing to meet us by saying that we spend incredibly much more money on investment and operations than otherwise. Then the representative can think that of the 30 kroner it costs in the bomb now, there are 12 kroner for each passage to the operation of and investment in public transport. And when the rest of the package is actually made in such a way that one should not increase road capacity, but make sure that it is viable in the centre of Sandvika, in the centre of Asker and in crowded places in the city, there are environmental tunnels in line with the Arch tunnel near the Waxdal in the West, which means that people in an environment get protection. If you do it in the West, you can do it in the city, so this is Left's answer: collective action and environmental tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e818	I am pleased with the underlined representative of Oslopak 3 and many of the positive sides there. The representative Dørum is at all known to many as a progressive and forward-looking man, who is for the environment and for the development of the urban and dynamic Oslo. Nevertheless, Dørum and his party, Left, continue to push forward the Advance Party by cooperation both in the Stortinget and in the city - a party that is opposed to important bets in Oslopackak 3 which is opposed to railway investment, and which has opposed the important legislative change that enables us to get to what we are doing now in Oslopackak 3. So I have to ask if not the representative Dørum and Left would have been more served with other partners, if it wouldn't have been better to support parties and solutions that could have been even more collectively directed, even more environmentally oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e825	I suppose the representative does not ask about the situation in the forthcoming roll-up elections, because I expect the representative Sponheim to have made it so bright that it is not necessary for me to repeat it. But it is possible that there is a question about the practical situation in Oslo City, for example, where the Left went to the election that we would not let go of a red regime, and where we went to the election that we would not sit in city council with the Right and Advance Party. That means that the Right and Advance Party sit in a city council where they depend on negotiating budgets with the Left, and those budgets become what they become. But if I should say it very briefly, politics in Oslo City Council is not adopted on the right of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e830	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e833	The government's goal is to make the capital even better at being the capital. The Capital Communication is an illustration of a holistic regional policy, the aim of which is to make the most of the different regions. Just as the government has an active coastal policy to make the coast even better on what they're good at, so we have an active capital policy to make Oslo an even better capital. Oslo is an important, albeit small, big city in European context. Norway needs such a city. Oslo is an important city of commerce, services and headquarters for business, for which the whole country benefits. In a globalised economy, we can secure new tasks, but we can also lose many functions to other countries. We need strong Norwegian environment that can participate in the development of Norwegian solutions and Norwegian resources. In a modern knowledge society, the capital is important with its great weight of universities, colleges and research and cultural institutions. Then it's both important and good for Norway that we have an interaction between the metropolitan environment in the capital and many strong regions and communities in this country. Oslo has great advantages. Oslo has in many ways a self-enhancing positive development - large birth surpluses, many head offices, all departments, many directorates and supervision. The business community has a short way to central government. Oslo also has its largest university, highly skilled jobs and high-income groups. It is also the case that the population of the capital region has a shorter route to specialised health services. But then Oslo also has special challenges - precisely in terms of its size - when it comes to collective provision, social smoothing, security and cooperation. The government will be committed to achieving national targets in some of these areas in the capital. One-third of all immigrants in Norway live in Oslo. If inclusion and integration are to be closed in Norway, we must be closed in the capital. It is important to promote good living conditions, shortages and participation in Norwegian society. The richest and many of the poorest cages in Oslo. The negative effects of pressures in the metropolitan region are easily the weakest. Therefore, it is an important task both for the Municipality of Oslo and for the Government to be closed in the fight against poverty in Oslo. If we are to cope with the struggle against housing unemployment, against the alarming developments we are now seeing in the field of drugs, cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo is particularly important. It is also the case that some specific measures are specifically mentioned in the Capital Message: Strengthened area deployment in Groruddalen, new area deployment for Oslo south, Søndre Nordstrand - agreement with the municipality was signed for a week ago. We also want a new location for any state enterprises in Oslo and Akershus to be decided after an assessment of the Groruddalen as an alternative, and have also asked for a special contact person in Oslo Municipality for just that. My love is that even more people will be proud of Oslo as their capital. The Capital Message is an important contribution. But it strikes me, when I sit here and listen to the committee's examination of this message, that on the one hand it is important to have such concrete measures as are described in this message, which means cooperation between different departments, different state agencies and the Oslo municipality, while on the other hand it is quite obvious that we are taking important steps here towards a better metropolitan region also in many other matters. The first one comes to Oslopackak 3, which is the next matter that Stortinget is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e855	The Council of State is responsible for the municipalities and the work they are going to do. Low appropriations and a lack of focus on health care in Health East create challenges for Oslo municipalities and municipalities in Akershus. What will the Council of State do to reduce these challenges in Oslo and Akershus? What cooperation do the Councils have in dealing with these challenges for the municipalities of Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e860	Let me first point out that I am at least happy to represent a government that has invested heavily in a better local economy, which has also benefited Oslo. Secondly, let me say that I represent a government that is genuinely busy meeting the challenges in the field of drugs, both through the preventive efforts that are needed, through the treatment system that is always at its disposal, which could be better, and through better aftercare. Let me say that I would say that the Progress Party in that field was not just busy repairing, but that the Progress Party also in Oslo City would enter into a dialogue with the Government about how we can ensure that not so many people end up in drug abuse. I assume that the Progress Party has also read about the context that is completely open between, for example. tips policy and Russian damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e865	The councils were generous about Oslo. That's good, but there's nothing the capital can live on. We all know that there is a case of changing the income system, which in practice could reduce the capital's income base by an estimated NOK 0.5 billion per year. years. It's pretty dramatic -- it's a lot of money. The predecessor of the council, Åslaug Haga - whom I assume sometimes the council changes words with - promised in an interview with NTB last August that no municipalities would come out worse after the conversion of the system. And she went on to say, "I can reassure everyone that it is my clear goal that no one should experience any shock as a result of us putting the system back on." Can the Council of State stand by the promise that her predecessor gave, or is this of the promises that belong to Soria Moria, i.e. in the adventure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e880	I guess Inge Wohnning has also registered that a lot of promises have been lifted out of the Soria Moria statement - because they have already been put into effect. Let me say when it comes to the Sørheim selection: It's true that a new and more equitable income system is underway, but as presented in the Sørheim selection, it will not be presented from the Government. The government shall look at both an income equalisation and an expenditure equalisation, i.e. the cost keys that are also an important part of the income system. So I can comfort your salary by saying that I don't believe any local authorities are going to get some shock. But it is quite obvious that there will be changes in some municipalities. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e889	The treatment system for drug users has been a recurring issue today. There is an error in the system - a ‘missing link’ - that indicates that there are vacancies in the volunteer organisations’ treatment facilities. These places are not used by municipalities, nor are they used enough by the municipality of Oslo. Rather, they want to use the treatment offered by healthcare companies, because this is an economic issue. Now the central party representative in the committee has responded positively to what the Christian People's Party has called for in the vote, namely to do something about the funding mechanism, so that the unintended effect is not to place empty - while there is a queue for treatment. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e898	I found it interesting to record that both the Christian People's Party and others here realize that the treatment plan for the drug field presented in the previous period is not working. The situation was not different then. Both from one and the other, it was noted that it was important to make better use of drug treatment capacity. I ask you to understand that as a municipal minister, I cannot go into detail about this. But what I'm going to do is bring this proposal, which is pending today, to the Minister of Health. I know that she has a great commitment to ensuring even more treatment for drug problems, as well as being busy with both preventive work and better aftercare.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e905	I would like to continue on the previous question. You can see that a society likes to be tested on how it treats the citizens who are struggling with life. It's now approx. 22 years ago I was commissioned by the Church's Bymission to do something about the treatment facility in Oslo. I know that arrangement very well. I know how it happened. I know how it gradually became seamless in many ways. I was worried when the state was going to take over - not because I was against the specialist health service offering, but because you were going to move something from one system to another. Unfortunately, anxiety has been confirmed, in that many beautiful people have come in, but - I note - in the transition between specialist health services, treatment centres and municipalities, what should not happen does not happen. When the proposal promoted by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left is present today, it is because we have the insight that it should be so that the state should be able to take the initiative to meet each other in the same way as the municipality, so that people do not become caste balls. I would strongly urge the Council of State to look at this. This is not a question of money, it is a question of using wit, so that citizens are given dignity and not made into throwing balls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e916	Let me say from the government that ensuring better prevention, securing more treatment and securing better aftercare is a priority task. In this sense, it seems to me that we should be open to all proposals and measures that will lead to improvements. My responsibility in this involves two essential elements. The only thing to do is to get more people to organize their lives from. It's actually an important part of the drug treatment that when you get out of an institution, you have a place to organize. So it's also -- like the second element -- an important task for me to ensure a better follow-up. Here are the municipalities and the efforts they make, centrally. At least I am happy to register that the cooperation agreement with the Municipality of Oslo means that the efforts, both from the municipality and from the specialist services, have been greater - but there are still challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e925	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e928	The population of Oslo is increasing at a record fast pace. Over the last ten years, the population of the city has increased by more than 60,000 people. Population projections show that the population of the city could increase by a further 100,000 over the next 15 years. All lots, except for the Advance Party, have chosen to designate this development as exclusively positive. The Progress Party believes that this is a naive and, in part, dishonest view of the issues raised by record-breaking growth. From a historical perspective, the population growth in Oslo has come primarily as a result of the fact that the Nordics have moved from the countryside, either to go to school or to seek work. This is a development city sharing with all major cities in Europe. This has been positive for Oslo and positive for its welfare and prosperity development. Today’s population growth is also due to relocation from the districts. But unlike previous years, people from the rural areas of Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Somalia and Iraq make up the largest share of the growth. Yes, nine out of ten new citizens in Oslo are due to immigration from abroad. Today’s population growth is not comparable to that experienced by Oslo in the past. Today's new Oslo citizens come largely from societies without democratic traditions. These are patriarchal societies without functioning institutions, and where clientism very often determines the position one has in society. These are societies that have replaced education, knowledge and critical reflection with culture, tradition and religious dogma. This is a country where fundamental human rights are violated and where humanistic values such as equality, equality, freedom of expression, pluralism, freedom of religion and individual freedom are absent. In such a perspective, it is native to believe that integration is self-inflicted, and it is completely irresponsible to allow 20,000 people to stay every year. There is no doubt that immigration into Oslo has gone too fast in recent years. The consequence of this has been that integration has stopped in many areas, and instead we have gotten tendencies towards segregation. Those who first of all have to pay the price of this unconsidered immigration policy are the immigrants themselves. Today's immigration policy is, in reality, the import of poverty. This can be seen from statistics covering education, unemployment, social assistance, social security payments, the use of child protection, the use of crisis centres and the pursuit of serious crime - all areas in which certain immigrant groups are overrepresented. In the Capital Message, the Government deliberately does not choose to address the very source of the challenges. Instead, it collectively stabs its head in the sand in the hope that the challenges disappear by themselves. It is the same policy that has been tested in other countries in Europe, and we all know what tensions exist in many of our neighbouring countries. But the truth is, these challenges will not go away. In fact, in order to mitigate the growing pain of Oslo, political courage and action are required. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals which will limit the growth of immigrants in Oslo. We do this because, like most people, we see that development is not sustainable. No later than today, we were told that the number of asylum seekers to Norway is expected to increase by 60 pst. in 2008, to 10,500. Many of these need protection and will be accommodated, later family reunification as well. These are very often poor people who need public help in a number of areas. The challenge for Oslo is that most of these will end up here and charge the budgets of the municipalities of Oslo. While the government sees the enormous challenges Oslo faces, the government clearly believes that these challenges are best addressed by taking away even more of the city's tax revenues, as the recommendations of the Sørheim Committee point out. The consequences of the Sørheim Committee’s conclusions include: that Oslo’s inhabitants will finance even more strongly than they do today the densest Centerpart-occupied areas in Norway. Fortunately, there are not many, but they are expensive! Should the government go in for the Sørheim committee's recommendations, it will mean that Oslo loses nearly 500 million. kr every year. As if not enough, the so-called Magnussen Committee has concluded that the distribution key for the hospital sector should be changed. Not unexpectedly, health south-east gets dizzy, and new 800 million. kr will be used to finance other health regions. Four years ago, Oslo changed the city government's critique system about how the city districts get money. This change changed the weighting of different cost-driven factors. Furthermore, a new criterion was introduced, namely the number of non-Western immigrants residing in the district. In other words, Oslo City Council had to take the consequences of the real costs of urban areas, and then non-Western immigrants were the most appropriate criterion. So while Oslo City Council takes the challenges seriously, the Government and various selections choose to pretend that the challenges don't exist. Finally, I would like to challenge my colleagues on the Oslo bench: reject the conclusions of both the Sørheim Committee and the Magnussen Committee. Show me you're on Oslo's side!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e954	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e957	The last speaker was in the Sørheim Committee setting. There are some people who are trying to make it--maybe against better knowledge--as if this matter were about town towards the village. The thing is, among the low-income municipalities in the country, there are a number of cities - for example. The ski, Sarpsborg, in all modesty Gjøvik, Kongswinger. It is therefore not that only the rural communities are asking for more cohesion. Once again, we have been demonstrated with all clarity that the low-income municipalities - there are many of them, and they exist as said in both the village and the village - will be strongly opposed by the right parties when these municipalities now ask for a little more of the tax revenue here in the country. Good distribution has never been the trademark of the right hand party either. But I've met prominent members of the Right in local politics who've been asking for an all-out of 75 pst. I therefore think that the right parties should listen a little to the wisdom of their own. We want a fairer income system. But it would be unfair if the state did not take into account and support under the special tasks and challenges that Oslo has as its capital and, I want to add, as the country's remote largest city. Such a challenge is homelessness. It's not acceptable for people to experience the unworthy by not having a fixed cup. It is estimated that there are 1,500 homeless people in Oslo. This represents a major problem that can only be solved in close cooperation between local authorities, countries and other actors, such as drug users and drug users. housing cooperatives, non-profit organisations and private developers. We just have to eliminate the homelessness. Then we're many who have to go together, and we have to go together with 'driving'. In order to cope, binding cooperation between the municipality and the State must be established. In particular, the Husbank plays a very important role. It is also important to focus on the living environment, especially in the inner east of Oslo. Here, there are problems of such a scale and nature that it also requires State action in cooperation with the municipality. Cooperation must be established in which a systematic improvement of the living environment of municipal farms can be achieved. Residents, urban areas, organisations and institutions need to be actively involved in order to benefit from the knowledge and experience available. In the capital message and in the setting, a number of concrete measures have been identified in this way, and there is a need to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e973	When Stortinget dealt with the big city announcement in the spring of 2004, it was the Oslo representatives who initiated the presentation of a capital message, and it was unanimously adopted. We wanted to put the search light on Oslo's three roles: Oslo as the capital, responsible for everything from land to embassies and the preservation of national cultural valuesOslo as a regional centre for more than one million peopleOslo as a city community and municipality, to provide services and secure work and housing for the inhabitants of the capital Therefore, the presentation and processing of the Capital Message is important for all who live, live and work in Oslo. However, it is equally important that the proposed measures are followed up. The population of Oslo is a complex group. We've heard about that today. It makes the city an exciting place to live. Growing up and living in a big city offers a wealth of opportunities, but at the same time it requires the state and local authorities to recognise that the urban community is a collective institution with a high need for public services. Oslo has immigrants from all over the country and a very high proportion with a migrant and minority background. More than half of Oslo's inhabitants are born outside Oslo and Akershus, it says in the message. As of 1 January 2006, Oslo had 12 pst. of the country's inhabitants, but 32 pst. by everyone with a migrant background. The district of Søndre Nordstrand has only 40 pst. There are people from 193 countries living in the capital, with the challenges it poses for schools, for kindergartens, for care for the elderly, for language training, for social assistance - and we could hit a lot, much more. This is both State and municipal responsibility. We've heard a lot about the Sørheim committee today, and the government is going to make a municipal proposition on the spring party. If it is based solely on the setting of the Sørheim Committee, it will have dramatic consequences for Oslo. The proposed scheme of the symmetric tax equalisation between municipalities will cause Oslo an income loss of up to 250 million. kr. Letting all corporate taxes go to the state will rip Oslo for another 250 million. kr. In fact, according to the Sørheim Committee's position, we are going to contribute more than half of the redistribution, which is in total approximately 900 million. kr. I also assume, President, that it will affect care for the elderly, it will affect school provision, it will affect youth action, and it will affect other services in the collective institution of the urban community of Oslo. I therefore hope that the Minister of State will look at the distribution of expenditure and the cost key and also take into account the Civil Service Committee in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e996	I just thought I'd spend some time saying something about why we're here today. The reason for this is that this capital announcement was made because all the city government parties took an initiative towards us that was on the municipal committee here at the Stortinget last period - that is, both the council and me - to get a capital announcement. The reason for this was that, in the context of the big city policy announcement, all of us who were Oslo representatives, and those who were in the City Hall, felt that Oslo's challenges were not affected well enough. It may have been because we had a municipality minister from Bergen at the time, but being a mountainer was not supposed to disqualify people from doing a good job for Oslo. So this was something that everyone joined - from the Progress Party to the SV. Therefore, I was a little surprised when I almost got the impression that the case rapporteur, from the Progress Party, thought that this message should not have been made, simply because the Progress Party was among those who actually stood up and said that this is a message we need. There are three things that characterize Oslo, for people who come to Oslo. It's that the differences are greater here than anywhere else in Norway -- Oslo is the city of the richest people, the city with the largest share of people with drug problems and the city with the largest share of people with the lowest incomes. It's that city in the whole country with most people with immigrant backgrounds and minority backgrounds, and it's that city where, even though it's for everyone coming from outside, it looks like the city with the largest and best collective offer, there's still so much traffic. There's so much traffic in this city that we're not close to solving the challenges of the good collective offer that, after all, exists here. The capital message has gripped all three of these issues. So we're opening up tolls - and it's going to be dealt with in the Oslopack 3 case afterwards. We open up to the use of tolls for the operation of public transport, and I'm happy and proud -- I think it's a little cool -- that Oslo and Akershus can be in close proximity in that area. This is an area we have to go on, both in Oslo and in the other cities. But Oslopackak 3 is not enough -- everyone who's been involved in the case knows -- simply because the increase in traffic is going to be so great that there's a need for stronger lye in the years to come. In that case, we consider it necessary to charge a rush-time charge, and those who do not support that proposal, I believe that I have an obligation to have other car-reduction measures on the table. The second is that we recognise that minority work and the work for the inclusion of minorities are national work. It is here, and there is a follow-up to the Groruddals package, which I was so happy to be able to join in and obtain a majority for the previous period of municipal policy. So this is a good message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1009	In this debate it has been said that we will not notice much about the capital message, and that it will not get much to say. I do not agree with that. It's important that we get a document that brings together the challenges and opportunities that we have in Oslo and in the rest of the metropolitan region. That's why I think this is a very exciting and instructive document that I hope will also read more than those at Stortinget, also local politicians around the region, but perhaps especially politicians from the rest of the country. Two challenges that we see are closely related in Oslo are traffic and the environment. But how we solve our urban challenges will not only have an effect here. It will also be important to achieve the national climate targets agreed by all parties here on the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Progress Party. The positive thing about the climate and environmental challenges in Oslo is that the solutions that are good for the city are also good for the country. If you do this in the right way, namely by reducing car traffic and massively investing in public transport, you will also be able to reduce particulate matter for the 230,000 people in Oslo who are exposed to particulate matter above the recommended national level. An important project to achieve this is the E6-lock or E6 in the Groruddalen tunnel. That is why I am particularly pleased with the report that the Government has given this project in the communication, and with the signals that they are willing to engage in dialogue with local parties in the area. Therefore, I would like the City Council, responsible for this, to take seriously the notification and to follow up the decision of the City Council of 21 June 2006 to bring together and coordinate actors who could be interested in the shooting of a tunnel or a lid in Groruddalen. In the case of E6, it is not about building a large and massive road with more capacity and traffic. It's about the living environment, the environment and urban development. With an important commitment to public transport, we can manage to bring down particulate matter, noise and climate emissions in the capital region - if we follow this recipe. I am also pleased that this message focuses on the importance of building a new double track between Oslo and Ski. It is part of the metropolitan region where local politicians themselves do not have the opportunity, nor is it a responsibility for public transport - and where we are totally dependent on the state to see the excruciating need it is for the development of this important double track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1020	The main challenge in the capital is to avoid the development of greater social disparities and to create a more positive development in vulnerable urban areas. The red-green government has contributed well to this, with Groruddalen betting, with Søndre Nordstrand betting - both in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo - and by following up the Inner East actions further. There are also a number of tasks and questions in the capital message that it is important that we go into more detail. In particular, there are new ways in which social differences are produced in our city. I'll mention three-four points there. The first is the increasing number of people who are in what we can call chronicles. There is an increasing proportion of life-style diseases such as diabetes, drug dependence, mental disorders and plagues, COPD, asthma and allergies, muscle and skeletal disorders. There's an increasing proportion of psoriatics, revenators, etc. These groups make up a large number of people in the country and, in particular, in Oslo and the eastern parts of Oslo. They also have poor living conditions because very many of them are dissatisfied and balance between having to go to the hospital and taking care of themselves in everyday life. This has also been addressed in the Annual Report on Social Health Differences that we discussed here in Stortingen last year. But it is important that we now pay attention to this further here in Stortingen, because we need to turn funds into health services against combating these lifestyle diseases, if we are to avoid increasing differences in Oslo and elsewhere in the country. Another difference challenge I'd like to point out is the drop-out in high school. New loss groups are produced by the fact that far too many end up in high school and do not receive an education that enables them to enter the labour market. There are frightening numbers drawn in the capital message that only 33 pst. of those with short-term parents completing high school — at least within the normal period — and only a few when you take a few more years. What we're missing is more practical offers in higher education for those who can't help being a part of the theory. This has to be able to come in earlier instead of running for two years with theory. We also need more apprenticeship places. We also see this by producing new differences in living environments. This is why important measures are set up by the Government when it mentions the investment of environmental custodians in municipal housing and in vulnerable residential areas, and the granting of grants to lifts in old blocks. Finally, I would like to say that if parts of what is in the Sørheim committee's position are to be implemented, I am pleased with what the municipal minister says she wants to have with cost equalization. I also believe that we have to look at a new capital grant, where we have to follow up some of these challenges that lie in the capital message, which is contained in the communication on social health differences, with targeted funds in the further work of the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1042	Big cities have special and special challenges and tasks. It also has the capital. Even for a westerner, even for a mountainer, it's both natural and important to point to the very last -- that the capital has special challenges, and that it's actually important for the whole country that they meet and be solved in a good way. The transport area has been thoroughly treated both in the message and in the setting. It is natural that I link some words to it - not only because it is mentioned in the notification and cancellation, but also because as the next case we are actually going to deal with a fairly comprehensive transport case, namely Oslopackak 3. Now, as Westerners and mountainers, surrounded and surrounded by trees, we could actually rub our hands on the fact that the inhabitants of both Oslo and Akershus are going to help pay as much as we've been used to for a long time, because we're still meeting with new homes. We don't. We are concerned that we should have a well-functioning transport network in the capital area. We in the Progress Party believe that the Oslo area is a traffic nook of national importance, and we believe that it should be out of the national transport plan, just as other major national transport projects should be taken out of the plan and given their own and specific state full funding. In the next case we're going to deal with, Oslopackak 3, one of the big issues is whether the state is dealing with the small proportion that the state has said it is going to deal with. I have noticed, among other things. Statement by Mr Reikvam, who was asked about it earlier in the debate. He felt very sure that the state money would come. If you read the proposal for a national transport plan, there is reason to be very concerned. The Road Service itself points out that with the frameworks proposed there will have consequences for the level of what is expected to be obtained from state resources in Oslo. Unfortunately, many people who have experience around the country where the state is a modest party feel that the state is bringing their money very late, if they come completely. Unfortunately, there is every reason to be concerned about the financing of Oslopackak 3. But first of all, it is a capital task to provide a well-functioning transport network, and it is a state task to ensure that the capital transport network is financed. It is important for the whole national transport network to be used by the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1053	Many people are concerned about what Norway will live on when the oil and gas age reaches its end. There are many approaches to that debate, but I think there is a great deal of consensus that knowledge and the development of the knowledge society will be crucial to how we succeed in that. Oslo plays a leading role in the knowledge economy and is the driving force, the engine, in that development. The innovation message is becoming important, but I am pleased that this message states that it should be a central task to facilitate the R & D sector and the business community in Oslo. We have several important clusters of nutrients with a centre of gravity in Oslo, for example. in the maritime sector, in the energy sector and in the ICT sector. Oslo also has a large potential in the medical field, in the field of biotechnology, based on the environment in the Gaustadbekkdalen, the University of Oslo, the Veterinary College and the Food Authority. This is forward-looking industry and industry that must be central, a main focus of the State Enterprise Fund. The Municipality of Oslo has developed a strategy for cooperation with knowledge institutions and communities in Oslo. I am pleased that the Communication states that the Government will actively support this process of state institutions. But it must be allowed to say that in such a context it will be to spend billions of dollars moving the Veterinary College out of its environment, its cluster, standing in a very strange light. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the very special challenges Oslo has on the environment. We're going to have a debate on Oslopackak 3 in this room later today, so I'm not going to say much more about it, except to underline the Government's goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Oslo. It is a measure that must be relevant to step 2. I'm glad that the majority in their comments are raising the level of railway investment as essential in order to meet our transport challenges. Three-quarters of all train traffic in the Oslo area is local traffic. There are people who travel back and forth to work. We need better frequency, faster trains and better punctuality. The situation we've had lately is totally unacceptable. We have to have the double track Oslo-Ski in place. It's been a long battle, and I'm glad it's been mentioned in the broad remarks of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1075	It is an important and important matter that is being debated here today, and I believe that many of the elements highlighted in the communication will be key policy areas for many years to come that we need to debate in a thorough manner. I am of the opinion that when the welfare society fails in District Norway, it also goes beyond Oslo. We export some problems down to the capital region, compared to some of our inhabitants, for example. from the north-east valley where I come from, go into Oslo. Especially now after Easter, we're going to see that many young people apply to Oslo -- it's unfortunately a classic spring sign -- to find like-minded people, for example. with regard to intoxication. Then I moved into one element I wanted to comment on in the debate today. For some reason, when politicians are going to debate drugs and the problem area in general, it is easy to get involved in injecting drug use. This has been done in the comments, and it has been done in the debate today. I believe it is important to debate injecting drug users, there are about 3,000 in Oslo today. It is also important to debate the treatment of injecting drug users, how far, I believe, the answer will be LAR treatment. What we don't discuss is all the other drug addicts. If we look at the police's numbers in terms of seizures five years ago and today, it was 20 pst. Of seizures at that time, heroin. Today heroin is almost non-existent in seizures, 4pst. Why should we not then discuss the other drugs challenges we face? It is not that most drug users in Oslo use heroin or opiates, where the answer is LAR treatment. Most addicts in Oslo today use entirely different drugs: methamphetamine, amphetamine, cocaine and cannabis. Then medically assisted treatment is not the answer. I think it will be a little derailment to have a big debate about injection rooms or 100 people in line for LAR treatment. What about all the other addicts who are in line and who do not receive medically assisted treatment because there is no offer? How we're going to solve it would have been an interesting debate. I also believe that we are missing one aspect of the debate today, and that is the prevention work. Here Oslo is doing very well. I have now been around some parts of the city to look at the SALTO project - a good cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the police, for example. at Stovner, where they have very good results in turning youth. We have to expect that the city council will do more when it works so well. It's a good economy. Oslo Municipality saves money on it, the state saves money on it, so then we have to put the drag in where we know it works, at least. And then it would have been tempting to comment on the comments of the Progress Party on alcohol, which comes in all sorts of contexts. I can't do that. I can only recommend the Advance Party to read about research on alcohol and violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1092	Now we are in that part of the debate where all the good wishes come out, regardless of whether there is government policy in Oslo or where it might be. I think it is important when we deal with a capital message, that we are able to balance what is the point of the message: state policy in this region and what themes and areas are important. What has surprised me and disappointed me a little bit about this debate is that there is not a single person who has taken up what I tried to start up with about what the Progress Party writes about moving patterns. Progress & party writes in configuration: ‘These members are of the opinion that the pattern of residence should be governed by the free choice of people and not by the policies of big business.’ That's good, and that's right. No one disagrees. At the same time, they write: ‘These members consider that it is necessary to facilitate the amendment of the legislation so as to penalise allowances refugees and persons who have been granted residence on the basis of an asylum application who are resident in other municipalities if they move to Oslo without being self-employed.’ I am not going to say that this is racism, but it is not far from racism, and it is quite serious. When this is written into an attitude from a committee, and it says there without people taking a distance from it and clearly stating that you don't want it, it's unpleasant. I wish that more people had been clear and clear and distanced from that kind of policy. It's okay that the Progress Party thinks so - they have to. But it's something else to mean it and then dry to write it into a setting that's being treated here in Stortinget. So to a couple of issues that have been affected - first Oslopackak 3: As I said, I feel fairly confident that the Storting will grant the money that we are now talking about to realize Oslopackak 3. The last allocation here in Stortinget to Oslopackak 3 will come in 2027. There's probably a lot of us who don't live then, but at least it's going to come in 2027. And then you can make a difficult debate about these 12 billions, if I can stand here and guarantee them in 2027, when I'm probably not even alive then! It becomes-- sorry-- a little silly. I feel confident that those who are going to deal with Oslopackakt 3 in the future, through the annual appropriations for the state budget, will follow this up, so Oslopackakt 3 will be realised. So to the Sørheim Committee in the end: there's a proposal there, but at the same time all parties have been clear and clear that what the Sørheim Committee was looking at was income balancing. We have been quite clear that when we are going to deal with this matter in the Storting in connection with the municipal proposition, the government is going to present proposals that also have the elements of the Borge Committee, which goes on the expenditure side, so that you can feel completely secure about it will be done. You're going to get the chance to join in and discuss it, and then you're going to see what kind of redistribution you want to do. But for the time being, the Sørheim Committee has a redistribution from Oslo, Bærum, Asker and Oppegård to some other municipalities. [[The President clubs.]] But then we also have to look at the cost side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1113	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1116	Let me first thank you for a clear debate and for the recordings that I'm going to take with me, both to the state councils to which it is relevant to tell, and to my own department. And then I just want to clarify for the sake of order, so there's no one that should be in doubt about that: when it concerns the Sørheim selection's setting, it's a NOU in line with many others. They have done a good and fruitful job, in that they have put forward an attitude with proposals that means a redistribution of income in the municipal sector and that can be characterised as a more equitable income system. Then there's been a hearing period like on other NOUs, and there's come a lot of recordings. They are processed and, of course, evaluated in the light of what is to be the final proposal of the Government. But then it's important for me to stress that if we're going to have a holistic system for the economy in the local government sector, we also obviously have to look at the costs and how they're distributed. There is already a selection, the 2005 Borge selection, that suggests what we call cost keys - that is, how much it costs to have a 6-year-old or a caring elderly person in a municipality. That's what the government is going to look at, and that's going to be presented in the municipal proposition, which is supposed to be seen in action from 1 January 2010. So it's important to get a signal, but one should not advance a debate about the Sørheim selection now. It is not possible that that selection setting will be followed as it has been submitted. Then it's focused on the Groruddalen besting. There is an agreement between Regeringa and the Municipality of Oslo on a bet that will be until 2016. I just have to say that I understand those who ask questions about whether the funds are used for bureaucracy. I bumped myself when I saw all the departments and all the other state budgets that are in. Let me just stress that it is actually a separate and important task to follow up on the fact that the money is channelled through the organisations that implement the various measures in practice. The urban areas are strong inside, and the House Bank clearly supports the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1125	After having been a state politician in Akershus for many years, and after nearly three years as a magnificent representative, my experience with the Municipality of Oslo is frustrating. I think very many of those who have been and are engaged in politics in Akershus feel the same way, because the Municipality of Oslo has had and has a regrettable tendency to look inwards in Oslo. One easily forgets the important area that surrounds Oslo, where there are as many inhabitants as there are in Oslo. It is important not to forget that it is to a large extent the Akershus inhabitants who keep the wheels running in Oslo. Tens of thousands of people commute into Oslo every day to contribute to what is going to happen to important things in the capital. There are many advantages to being located in a metropolitan area, but there is no doubt that Akershus residents experience a great deal of pressure in their neighbourhoods. There is pressure on schools, there is pressure on the development of new residential areas, there is pressure on infrastructure, etc. It is clear that when designing a policy for the capital, account must also be taken of the entire capital area. It is important that the Government also contributes to the exceptional lifting of the Akershus municipalities in terms of funds for the development of important infrastructure. I was very happy when the representative Arne Sortevik, from Hordaland and Bergen, was up and talking about the importance of a good transport network in the capital area. He said that the Progress Party wants to take the metropolitan area out of its national transport plan and promote its own plan for this, with its own state funding. That's what I thought was very nice to hear, because it shows that we, who are party representatives from Oslo and Akershus, have representatives like Blackevik from Hordaland in their backs about the importance of investing in our field. That is why I think it was all the more sad to hear the representative of Reikvam from Akershus, who cannot provide any guarantees for the financing of Oslopackak 3. We must bear in mind that Oslopackak 3 is not a package of state funding. It is essentially a package of local funding. It is the inhabitants of Akershus who finance Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1137	I have followed the debate with interest. There have been many great posts that have contained many beautiful words, where the content of the message has been described in a great way as very positive with regard to the care of Oslo, our capital. I have also noticed that representatives have used words as fruit baskets and melting crucibles to describe our capital. I'm not going to go into that debate any particular, but I'm going to join the Blackevik representative, as a trouser, and say that even in Trøndelag we actually see a strong need for Oslo, our capital, to have a strengthened infrastructure network - not because there are many thousands of people living in Oslo, but because also those who are still living in Trøndelag need a good infrastructure network when they go to Oslo and through Akershus. What I reacted to was the representative Reikvam, who again looks with light and lights in the comments of the Progress Party - not to accuse the Progress Party of being racist, but to connect us as closely as possible to racism. The representative does not say that we are racists, but that we are very close to being racists. If Rikham had been committed to creating good conditions for the refugees in Norway, he should have suggested that the integration grant would have followed the refugees when they move from one municipality to another. That is the challenge pointed out by the Progress Party. In addition, the Progress Party has said that the integration grant to municipalities might last seven years, and perhaps it should also be greater than what the representative Reikham is in favour of. The point is to create stability for the refugees where they live, over a long period of time, in a secure environment in the municipalities. It cannot be safe either for Oslo or for the refugees when, after a certain period, they choose to move to Oslo from the municipality where they have been promised the integration grant. It cannot be expected that Oslo will take these costs in addition when the integration grants are not included. Maybe that's why we see that Oslo has a huge challenge, because both Rikvam and other left-hand parties have been so naive that they have actually built -- as I see it -- a dangerous sub-class in Oslo that you haven't taken seriously. Mixing this with racism becomes so incalculable that you distance yourself from the challenges you should have faced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1148	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1151	I belong to those who don't get very impressed when Per Sandberg comes and is going to evaluate a debate. After we've kept on for quite a while, he comes and evaluates. I'm not impressed at all. What I've done so far is quote what the Progress Party has written on two points, and it's about free immigration to Oslo -- to say that -- for some, while others won't be allowed to come if they don't have enough income. It goes on groups, and it goes on ethnicity. I haven't said anything about what progress party people might be, but I've said that these statements can approach racism. I have not said that they are racist, but that they can approach racism. What we're discussing, and what I'm trying to record, is this way of segregated in terms of ethnicity. That's what I've felt uncomfortable about and I've expressed myself for. And as I said, I'm not impressed by Per Sandberg's evaluation of the debate at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1160	My job as a big-time representative of the Progress Party and for Trundellag is not to impress the representative from SV. My job is not to come to the hall now to evaluate the debate. But I think it is my duty to take the floor and comment when the representative Rikvam moves near to calling the Progress Party racist. Then the representative will have to shake his head, but for me it will be close to that when the representative Rikamm says that we are almost balancing in relation to moving from what is not racism, and into it. Then the representative talks about ethnicity. Based on what I know about the flow of refugees to Norway, it's very difficult to talk about ethnicity. Refugees are diverse, and that's what's also the challenge. Here it is simply about creating a system that does not burden our capital in terms of taking financial burdens, when Requam has placed refugees around the municipalities. Once the integration grant has been granted in a municipality, it should be almost mandatory for the refugee to live in that municipality during the period during which the municipality received the integration grant. If Reikvam believes that it should not have been so, he would have proposed a single price, a kind of DRG system, where the integration grant follows the refugee regardless of where he had to move. The party of progress does not object to refugees finding an engagement, study, or whatever, moving to another municipality. It's the social security schemes that's wrong. Instead, the representative must attack it, instead of attacking and quoting the Progress Party and linking it up to racism. That's what's so sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox (See page 2522 for guidance. [[Friday 14 March]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1182	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1191	It is a pleasure for me as Oslo representative today to be the case rapporteur and present Phase 1 of Oslopackak 3. What's fine with Oslopackack 3, in addition to the obvious benefits, the good and new traffic solutions, is that it's based on a very good local policy compromise. This is important because Oslopackak 3 is a package to be implemented and to last over 20 years. Then it's important that you don't go in and make big changes to the package on the basis of a changing majority, either here, in the City Council of Oslo or in the district council of Akershus. It is also great to see that the local politicians in Oslo have taken such an important responsibility for this transport system that we know that the whole country is dependent on. As I said, from the Progress Party in Oslo to SV in Oslo, with the possible exception of some of the FrPs in Akershus, we now agree on this package. Now it is our turn here on Stortinget to adopt this, and that is why, as the case-rapporteur, I am also pleased that we have come up with a lot of common comments on the matter. I can only regret the fact that the Progress Party on the Stortinget is not even involved in this, not even in the praise given to its own party colleagues in Akershus and in Oslo. This package and local politicians had deserved full support. We have all our principles and things we disagree with or maybe wish we were different. Personally, I think it's a good way to solve traffic problems, but I'm choosing to ignore it, because I'm more concerned with finding common and good policy solutions than with highlighting principles that don't contribute to any development for people in the region. That's why I might have wanted the Progress Party in this big and important social and transport case to be able to engage in dialogue and come up with solutions, and not just mark itself and its own position. Oslopackak 3 phase 1 is the financing arrangement for the package. In phase 2, which comes to the harvest, we will come back and discuss more the concrete projects, but there are nevertheless important and concrete things that are happening right now. We'll get back on track with Ulven-Sinsen, a road project that's been standing still for too long, and we'll start building the Colza Railway again, which is important for a large part of the population westward. But perhaps the most important thing that happens is the commitment to public transport. The fact that we can now use tolls for the operation of public transport as a result of changes in the law allows us to bet properly. The drivers buy capacity on the road in a completely different way from what they used to do when driving on asphalt. Now you buy it because the T-course to the Stovner can go every seven and a half minutes, and that means that many more people will be able to take the T-course and find it practical, and so it will also relieve road sections like Rv. 4 and E6. The right, Christian People's Party and the left show in addition to a proposal they had in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 15, that the money from the Mountain Line must go directly to the new collective company Ruter. We believe that this is taken care of by what the Ministry of Transport writes in the proposition, that the Road Administration should extend far in order not to object to what has been agreed locally. It should almost only be considered as a journey into the account, which is important in order for us to comply with the legislation that is around tolls and to ensure that this is done in a proper way. In addition, it's important to remember what we're writing about that in the future we'll also want that 25 pst. revenue shall be used for operations. But I am particularly proud of the common comment that shows that we, as transport politicians here at Stortinget, take the climate problem seriously, when we write that climate change should also be a prerequisite and a basis for discussing further changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1209	Let me open the door to congratulating the case rapporteur on having succeeded in getting an impact on the biggest toll package in history - so much doubt. That's my starting point for the question. I do not expect an answer, but I ask the question anyway. The rapporteur, Mr Wickholm, concludes his speech by pointing out that changes to Oslopackakt 3 can be made in relation to the climate. What does the representative of Wickholm consider as climate change change related to the content of Oslopackage 3? Is it the fact that a greater proportion of tolls are to be taken from the road and, where appropriate, from the investment and operation of public transport, that additional charges are to be borne by the representative of Wickholm when changes of content are opened in the notes, or is there any pain limit at all by the representative of Wickholm to take account of the local agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1216	I am very pleased that the representative Sandberg is asking about this, because unlike what I see is the position of the Progress Party here, I am very interested in and concerned about having a good dialogue and working with the local politicians. It is precisely the local politicians who have applied for the Ministry of Transport and the Stortinget, even a party colleague of the representative, and I, as the rapporteur, have been committed to trying to meet and underline the wishes that are there. And so, as we write in our notes, changes in concrete prices and, for example, in concrete prices. major climate challenges may have the effect that we need to discuss this further. But then it is very much emphasised in the note that this will of course be done in cooperation and dialogue, and with agreement between local and central authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1223	I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Wickholm, for a well-worked job, where he has stressed the importance of bringing together the broadest possible consensus on the widest possible comments. As the case rapporteur, like everyone else, only has five minutes, he could not go through all the comments. One of the comments that are important is that there is a reference to Nils Aage Igstad, the Vice-President of Akershus, and the Labour Party Rune Gerhardsen, who both said: «In our environment, the package is robust. But for pressure from the outside it is fragile." This was when Wickholm found it necessary to include it in the comments. Then really is my question: Who sees Wickholm constitute the greatest pressure from the outside? Is it the slightly unexplained state funding element that is the greatest danger of the package, or is there any other factor that can come in? It also states, as Mr Wickholm pointed out, that all parties must be involved if changes are made. Can Wickholm elaborate on how this can happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1237	Now this is what the representative of Greece refers to, comments from all the parties. Had the representative of Greece read further down the note, he had seen that it says: ‘The majority further noted that the same persons also recognised that there could be situations where adjustments might be necessary, but that this had to be done in close cooperation with the local parties.’ And I'm going to keep on writing: ‘The majority have understood that in this case it is important that the parties, which were part of the compromise, be involved in the further work and ask the Ministry to note this.’ It is precisely this way that climate change, concrete prices and pressures in the economy should be addressed. It's also important, I think, to notice that the parties here are necessarily not only they are at all times sitting or ruling parties, but the parties that were part of the original compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1252	Let me also congratulate the case rapporteur on the record-breaking treatment of Norway's largest toll-based transport package, a far too rapid treatment, which is underlined by the fact that a number of questions about unexplained information in the proposition have had to be sent and answered at express speed. Let me also confirm what the rapporteur says that it should have had the support of everyone. The Progress Party supports 80 pst. What will the climate agreement lead to for the content of the package? The case rapporteur says outside the hall that the package has many good climate effects in itself. The question is whether this is good enough, we need to discuss it in the further work. What can the drivers expect from the substantive change in what they are now supposed to pay for? We believe that we can expect quite different things from explanations of concrete prices and prices in the market, namely that it can be substantially changed in terms of content. Will it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1259	Now I became a little uncertain, because I was first congratulated, but further accused of having had a far too fast treatment. There are two things that are not in line with each other, but it is also a customary procedure from the Progress Party. I don't think pointing to concrete prices or other market situations is expounding it. There are important things that it is important to have discussed in advance, so that you can deal with them if problems arise. What we are asking for is that things be considered on an ongoing basis, and that, in the light of the ongoing assessments, discussions are held with the parties. It would not be right for me, without having information, or without having been in dialogue with others, to say that Oslopackak 3 would change like that. I have no wish for that, and neither will I.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1266	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1270	Another record will be set - another toll record in the toll country of Norway. Under the government of Stoltenberg, the use of toll financing has shot speed. Nearly half of Stoltenberg's road effort is financed by tolls. The government of Stoltenberg sends the state’s bill to the drivers. In Oslopackak 3 it goes from bad to worse. Not only is Oslopackak 3 records - 54 billion kroner, of which 42 billion dollars from the drivers - the additional bills are also record-breaking. For the modernisation of toll stations, the construction of new and annual collection for 20 years, the drivers also have to pay nearly NOK 3 billion. For projects started in Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2, respectively, they will pay almost DKK 3.5 billion through collection in Oslopackak 3. How the overall framework of Oslopackak 3 will reach all new projects is, at best, poorly explained. What's clear is that 20 pst. the package shall be used for investment in public transport and 20 pst. shall be used for the operation of public transport. The last measure has also been made possible by the government of Stoltenberg. This government has turned the bomber in the road law another hack - now tolls can be used for the operation of buses, trams and tracks. If this government keeps going, there will probably be a new change in the road law too. Then the train will come in at high speed financed by tolls from the drivers. Oslopack 3 is an important transport project. The Progress Party believes that it is indeed an important national transport project. The whole country is well served that the transport network around the capital works well. Therefore, it is also quite wrong that the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus should finance most of this package of tolls. Part of their willingness to do so is due to political extortion developed under Stoltenberg and Navarsete State Council, with a clear message: No bomb, no way! Unfortunately, this political extortion causes parties in many municipalities to bend their necks and be pushed to accept tolls. These are municipalities with rapporteurs from the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre parties, and municipalities with a political majority where the Progress Party is not involved. In a few cases, there are also municipalities where the Progress Party is either run by a different majority, or is part of a majority who are pressurised to accept tolls. Regardless of who is pressurised, the Progress Party has the opinion that the State must pay for the construction, maintenance and operation of transport infrastructure in Norway. And I remember that it's the Storting, where we are now, who decides to use tolls. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. That is a comprehensive proposal. We will implement this comprehensive project as a state-funded project, with project funding. This applies to road and collective investment. The Progress Party proposes that the State should also cover the financing of the Oslo Pakket 1 and Oslo Pakket 2 projects to be financed by new tolls in proposals for Oslo Pakket 3. The Progress Party also proposes to remove the bombing around Oslo. The Party of Progress is opposed to the use of tolls for the operation of public transport. The solution of the Progress Party is, above all, that the two states responsible for public transport are doing more themselves. In addition, through government purchases of collective services, the Progress Party will purchase 100 million. kr annually provide the Oslo area with a contribution to improved collective provision. The Progress Party will continue Oslopackakt 3 to an Eastern package. The Progress Party will modernise the transport network - the road network and the rail network - through its own State project in the Hamar-Skien-Halden triangle. This too must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be a state-run and state-funded national project outside the scope of the National Transport Plan. With a modernised transport policy, as the Progress Party proposed yesterday in the Stortinget, it is fully possible to do without toll financing and over a 20-year period - not only possible but necessary! The Progress Party also promotes proposals relating to the financing solution chosen by a majority in the Grand Duchy. We are opening mandate decisions from Stortinget, so that the Ministry of Transport can conclude a binding, legally binding agreement that ensures a State contribution of NOK 12 billion with advance payment during the first 10 years of the contract period. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I ask that motion No. 4 which has been distributed in the Chamber with a new text, and proposal No. 5 is voted over separately. Secondly, we would like to see alternative voting between proposals Nos. 2 and 3 and the setting up of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1299	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1304	The representative of Sortevik is constantly coming back to what the Progress Party describes as political extortion, but as we others choose to call great political initiative and great political will to implement things in their own region. One problem is that we rarely or never recover the same costs of this type of project in the budgets of the Progress Party. So here you have over 50 billion dollars to cover, and I can just say that I'm waiting to see if this is also going to be made visible in the next budget. The party of progress, as we know, has not given priority to transportation when they have power. But finally, does the representative of Sortevik not realise that his total conversion of the package, with new investigations and new projects, will contribute to a significant delay and thus also destroy this bet that his own party traps in Oslo are now waiting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1313	Not new investigations, but new funding. Essentially, we are in favour of the investment programme in road and collective terms. So we have a different funding solution, so that the drivers in Akershus and Oslo are saved for the extensive toll financing, and not least for the comprehensive additional bills contained in Oslopackak 3. If the representative of Wickholm reads the setting, among others: he also finds some of the concerns and reasons which the Oslo Progress Party has had for subsidiaryly joining the toll package that he feels pressured to adopt. I don't think any local government figures are going in under the pressure to spend tolls, do it with cheers. I believe, on the contrary, that they feel a very clear pressure from central authorities, from a state that does not pay its bills, and that demands that municipalities and residents do so instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1320	During the main contribution from the case-rapporteur today, there was no guarantee or confirmation that the state would pay with its 12 billion kroner. My first question to the representative of Sortevik is: how can we trust that the state will show its responsibility, whose proposal is No. 4 falls during voting today? My second challenge to the representative Blackevik is that the Progress Party is constantly being challenged that we have so much money. Then I would like to challenge the representative of Sortevik: is there coverage for the proposals of the Progress Party, previous proposals on structural changes and future proposals for fund provision for infrastructure, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1327	I am very pleased with the question! To take the last one first. It is clear, also in view of the previous speeches, that if we follow the proposals promoted by the Progress Party, the point is that we have an independent funding solution in order to implement the major transport commitments that Norway has to take over the next 20 years. We have the opportunity, and we have the funding solution and the funding tool to do it in 20 years' time without tolls. We have, since the majority seems to force through the solution that lies in the matter, been committed to ensuring that the state actually pays what the state promises - but does not undertake - to pay. Most of those involved in projects where small shares are to be paid by the State and where the drivers pay large shares have poor experience. It is therefore important that the Storting equips the Ministry of Transport with authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1336	I understand that the progress part is twisted when they have to use lines between themselves to get a better time for explanation. That's very interesting. I have entered the Progress Party in the budgetary position under Bondevik II. So they scream up and spend $50 billion on it for a second, and when they come into negotiations in connection with the budget, there's only one mouse beep left. In three years, the Progress Party made it to position 1 million. kr on road maintenance, while now when you are out of the office and out of negotiations, a sudden 50 billion kroner are on the table - without any problem. This is going to be a little bit serious. My question to Sortevik relates to what the Progress Party is constantly confronting others, the climate agreement. After all, Blackevik has been in Kyoto, and every other party on the Stortinget says that each new government should have the climate agreement at the bottom. Is Sortevik in the government going to get real money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1345	The representative Sortevik has not been in Kyoto, but he has a relationship with a good environmental policy, just as the Progress Party has a relationship with a good environmental policy, and it is primarily energy-based and not climate-based. There are constantly new recordings that indicate and confirm that it is smart and wise to build a well-functioning transport network, including for those who are concerned with possibly reducing CO2 emissions. It is a bit of a core point when the Progress Party chooses to take up Oslopack 3 as a large national transport system in order to get a more efficient national transport system around and to and from the nation's capital, Oslo. We put a lot more emphasis on what the other parties are doing, that we're going to have a stronger road development, but we've also shown that we want to continue what's in Oslopack 3 to a larger Eastern project, where we're looking at the entire triangle around Oslo, also on the railway section. This might satisfy the questioner when it comes to what was asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1357	Two things: Firstly, in a number of contexts, the Progress Party has now been strongly committed to achieving broad non-socialist cooperation. Then we have a great example that there's been such an experiment in Oslo. When it comes to Stortinget, it is completely torpedoed with roars and debris by the Progress Party centrally. How does the representative of Sortevik view this cooperation to function on the road ahead, as the situation is per year. Today? So short for the treatment period. The progress party is very concerned that there was too little processing time on this matter. We can agree to that. It would have been okay if we could spend longer. The Progress Party then proposes that, in two months' time, already in the revised national budget, this package be thrown over. State funding for the remaining projects is to be provided and the bombing is to be halted during the month of June. Is this serious treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1366	Yeah, it's actually serious treatment. What we're always talking about is finding alternative funding for what's suggested. The projects to be completed are well known and the price tag of the projects to be completed is well known. What is a new recipe is for the state to pay the bill and the drivers to let go. It is no surprise that the Progress Party on Stortinget, where toll packages are being treated, is opposed to the use of tolls. It's well known to our voters, and it's a well-known part of our program. It's also well known that we have the view that the state has to pay for the state's roads. It can't surprise anyone that we still want government funding. It is the policy of the Progress Party, and it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1373	Interestingly, the Progress Party will go much further than what's in Oslopak, simply bring what they call the triangle around Oslo. Then I'd like to start by saying that everyone in my home country can at least notice that they're stopping the triangle at Hamar. When it comes to the intercity triangle, a lot of time has been talking about Oslo-Skien-Halden-Lillehammer. And then there's an idea I have, that the Progress Party has not got what we're dealing with now, that we're now opening up a pre-financing to complete some of these projects. After all, the discussion that the Progress Party is dragging on comes a long way into the next phase. So we also notice that Arne Sortevik says that they will go against using tolls for collective betting, that should be the task of the state. But it harms very badly when Arne Sortevik is talking about using state-owned purchases and the Progress Party has cut both the reward scheme, by actually zeroing her out for public transport, and has cut off the state's purchase of transport from NSB in such a way that it would have dramatic consequences. Do you really want to bet on public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1383	Those who were included in our 2008 alternative budget, I think we had a reward package - without whips, a pure carrot package - for the three big cities of 100 million. kr. I believe that the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which has made a very thorough statement and a very comprehensive proposal, is aware of what this matter actually concerns. What we're dealing with today, in fact, is the biggest toll package in Norway's history. It is the largest package in Norway's history, where the state denies its responsibility to build state infrastructure in Norway and serves the highest bill of Norway's history directly to the inhabitants and to the drivers. It has brought with it the Progress Party, and it is the Advance Party against it. We're trying to find another solution to the funding problem. We want state funding, and when a majority pushes through the use of tolls, we want guarantees for the drivers through a roll-call decision that the state actually pays what the state is actually obliged to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1393	As the rapporteur, Mr Wickholm, was involved in his speech, there is a broad political consensus in Oslo City Council and Mr Akershus County on the Oslopacket 3 package of measures. The agreement must be a historical one. It's just Akershu's Advance Party that's positioned itself on the sideline. Otherwise, all the parties are locally involved and ensure that Oslopackak 3 can become a reality. There is reason to commend constructive cooperation between the conciliators. Today we are dealing with the financing solution of the package of measures. Recovery considerations have resulted in a breakdown of the treatment of the Storing. The right does not in any way release the jubilee until we see the Government's proposal for the measures, which comes first in the autumn. I remember that both the County rapporteur Nils Aage Igstad from the Right and the Labour Party negotiator Rune Gerhardsen at the hearing in the committee stressed that the package is robust settlement parties between them, but that it is very fragile for the outside press. Of course, practical and sensible adjustments of a smaller nature must be provided for, but the measures contained in the package, the project portfolio, must not be confused. The right would stress that Oslopackak 3 is a package of measures that includes toll financing and not a package of measures. The package is a whole. If the Government takes individual measures into the negotiated agreement on Oslopackak 3 upon presentation of step 2, the basis for a broad political consensus will be lost. In particular, the right will highlight the ‘New E18 Environmental Road’ from Asker to Oslo. It is an absolute prerequisite for support from the Right-wing Party that this project is being launched quickly. In addition, the realization of the ‘New E18 Environmental Road’ is also a prerequisite for support for a collection point on Lysaker. When I focus so strongly on the assumptions, it is because we from the Right have noticed that the Council of State will not promise that the proposition to come to the harvest contains the “New E18 Environmental Road”, or else that the package will be implemented in line with the agreement. We hope, of course, that the harvest will show both that the state contributes investment funds as intended and that the package is not broken by the Government. It would be totally unacceptable if the Government changed the content of Oslopackak 3 without all parties agreeing to it. There is reason to point out that if you have to start over again, not only Oslo and Akershus, but actually the whole country and the environment are back as losers. We're sure the voters will notice. Let's hope that doesn't happen. Should the government not contribute as intended, or claw with the package, of course valuable time is lost, but the safety valve is the 2009 option, and it is fortunately not so far away. So to something that concerns both the funding that we are dealing with here today, and the implementation of actions to come. Oslo and Akershus have major traffic challenges today. Today's infrastructure, both on the road and on the track, no longer lasts. There is therefore no time to lose in the process of realizing Oslopacket 3, and it is absolutely vital that the work is done in a rational way. With increased prices of asphalt, steel and concrete, it will be challenging to realise even the most urgent measures quickly enough. Even the most urgent measures cannot be implemented rationally and within a reasonable time horizon of the foreseen annual cash flow. The right is fully convinced that without debt financing or any other advance, it will affect both road and collective projects. We will therefore use alternative funding and organisational solutions. Since the project funding was implemented, no initiative has been taken by the Government towards alternative organisation and funding. Now we await the Government's view of OPS. For a long time, the right has made proposals for public private cooperation. There are two projects in which we believe OPS is possible and which should be assessed by the parties. I would like to stress that the parties must agree on that. It is «New E18 Umweltvej», Asker-Oslo and Mossevejen in tunnel. I am absolutely sure that everyone who queues here every day supports the Right's view that the projects should have been running for the longest time, and that they say yes to a realization time down to half. Finally, I would just like to stress that the railway investments planned in the Oslo region must be put in place. The fact that the double-track Oslo-Ski is not part of the plans for a new national transport plan in the streets is tragic. However, railway investments are not to be incorporated into Oslopackak 3. There's the right completely in line with the local settlement parties. It is the State that is responsible for the operation and financing of railway infrastructure, not the drivers in Oslo and Akershus. The right will stress the importance of the State following up this responsibility with sufficient appropriations. It is necessary to ensure that public travellers in Oslo and Akershus receive a good train offer. Tolls shall not be used to replace a lack of State investment on the railway. I'm dealing with what the right-hand proposal is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1416	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1419	I thank the President-in-Office for his work. I would also like to thank the politicians in Oslo and Akershus for what they have done. That craft I think will be useful for the rest of Norway, not least the part that this local compromise now receives from national consequences. It is especially about the Oslo SV and the new leader there, Heikki Holmås, are pleased, simply that a now can use tolls for operations and investments in the collective supply. It gives possibilities. It also allows other parts of the country to use this, e.g. My own part of the country, the North Jären, to collect tolls and use them to strengthen the bus supply, increase the bus supply or make it cheaper. There's a lot of potential here to bring down car traffic. We're all interested in that. Then it's like the Oslo package has challenges. It's just supposed to be missing! The package is, among other things, created in a slightly different time. To put it a little funny, Norway is changing with the government's SV. There will be new decisions that will have to comply with a new policy. It happened in the context of the climate agreement. I have no doubt that local politicians in Oslo and Akershus understand that when there is a national climate deal, it means that you have to see if you have to do something with the plans you had. Of course, it's not that we or I should agree to that. It needs to be grabbed and a dialogue is needed on how to do this. All Norwegian politicians understand that once a national compromise on climate is reached, it has consequences. Two thirds of greenhouse gas emissions shall be taken nationally. So we have to do something. An example of the climate agreement that is favourable from my point of view is the reward scheme. It's now a broad plural -- all minus the Progress Party, which essentially zeros out such things that are getting more collective travellers -- to double the reward scheme. A lot more money is given to the cities, cities and districts that do something offensive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The requirement is that they come with measures to reduce car traffic: there may be parking restrictions. One can of course do it like a German city, where one says that they and those cars can't drive in, because they are too much, and it can be done with petrol taxes, etc. Eg, Oslo SV and SV nationally have very much faith in rush time fees or cow pricing. The reason is that most people, in Stockholm and London, decided that they wanted it. It was not just because it led to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. It makes sense. In Stockholm it has our 14 pst. reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. But it was because of all the positive consequences a less traffic got - less noise, less local pollution and fewer traffic accidents. Now there's a choice in London. Ken Livingstone, Red Ken, is returning to choice. This time he chooses that if you're going to run with a SUV, or Chelsea tractor as they call it, you have to pay 250 kroner in the bomb to get to London. That is his proposal, and that is what he is going to do. He's probably being elected, because people see that this works. In London, then, car traffic has been reduced by 21 p.m., and public transport has increased by about 21 p.m.. 50 pst. So my simple explanation about why SV is so positive about the rush time charge is that it works. It seems to be climate. It seems like noise. It works for local pollution. The position of the majority says that the climate agreement needs to be taken into account in further work. As I said in the introduction, this work must, of course, be done in cooperation with Oslo and the conciliation there. There's nothing we should impose on them. But I believe that all politicians - perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, if they do not want to take the climate deal seriously in the future - will take action to improve this package for the climate. I initially thought it was amazing that so many parties are behind such a large package that gets so much meaning for most people in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1439	I know the representative of Langeland as an open and honest politician. That's why I want to challenge him with an open and honest question, and hope for an open and honest answer. I hear what the representative says about the climate agreement, that it will certainly have consequences for Oslopackak 3 and the content there. Could the representative of Langeland say what the consequences he thinks the climate agreement would have to have for Oslopackak 3 and the content there? Would it be necessary to impose other or new charges, higher charges? Is it possible that there will have to be a little less priority for road and more for operation and investment in public transport? Or is there any other element the representative Langeland is thinking about that could be the consequences of the Oslopackak 3 climate agreement? I record that he says this should happen in the form of dialogue, but he also says that it must have certain consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1446	We have a national climate agreement - as SV and all parties, I believe, are happy that we have got, because climate policy is the world's most important thing - it says all parties unterateke Sandberg. When addressing the challenge of the major greenhouse gas emissions in different sectors, including transport, one has to look at whether it is developing in its city, having negative or positive consequences. There is nothing more than what I say, that it is now a national compromise. It's an honest answer -- that's what I was asked for -- that now has a national compromise that must have consequences not only for Oslo, but for all local government and city government. They must comply with a climate agreement that the National Assembly, with the exception of the Progress Party, has agreed, and then all municipalities must consider: What should we do for our part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and do something about the world's greatest challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1451	It is both a little daunting and a little fascinating that a settlement has been reached that is so wide that everyone, from the Progress Party to the SV in Oslo, is behind it. That is why I am very pleased that there is now so much emphasis on, including here on the Stortingen side, that it is the local parties that have to agree if this is to be changed. The reason why I'm happy about that is because we have representatives like Hallgeir H. Langeland, who won't mind a single opportunity to put on the drivers extreme expenses, so let's make it a reference to London, where one would pay 250 kroner to drive a SUV into the city. I'm also a little surprised that Langeland so consistently talked about Oslo with regard to Oslopackak 3. Well, as far as I know, there are two relatively large counties involved in this. But can Hallgeir Langeland confirm that he does not want to exercise any pressure - even from government teams - to enter as a premise that the rush time charge is to enter Oslopackakt 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1458	I am sorry that I have not mentioned Akershus’ and Akershus Right-wing heroic efforts to get to Oslopackak 3. But I've done that now. When it concerns my relationship with car charges, etc., I think I should nuance it. I'm busy distinguishing between town and country, that driving a car in town can be more expensive because we have a collective offer. It was also to the extent that the Right stated that in the climate agreement they wanted restrictions on car traffic in order to get more public travellers. But in rural areas it's different, because there's the car collective. So we have to separate the two things. I'm not going to force a running-time charge down Oslopackak 3. I should have wanted it, but as the situation is, I don't have the power and authority to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1467	The representative of Langeland spent a lot of time on the climate deal, which has just been dealt with here in Stortinget. Can the representative of Langeland be so honest and admit that it was the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who managed to move the Government in a more climate-friendly direction than the SV did within their own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1473	I'm glad the Left is in the climate deal. The effort that Left has made, I guess I haven't been small. But the option is the Bondevik II government. If the Left had been in position, they would have been dependent on a party that says they don't want anything from the climate agreement. They don't care about it, because they're not afraid of the future of the world. That's the horse. In the assessment that the Left put in government and built Snow White Gas Power Plant with 1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, or the option with a multiple with the Progress Party in position, I just thought the Left should be happy that SV is in a government that ensures a wide climate settlement, with Left as good partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1481	I often hear Langeland almost religious tribute to the Stockholm project and the rush time fee in Stockholm. Today, it was also heard that Langeland said that most people would like to have a rush-time charge, and he even claims that a large majority of people in Stockholm would have a rush-time charge. As far as I know, it was a large majority in the municipalities around Stockholm who voted against the rush time tax, and it was in fact only a very small majority in the centre of Stockholm who voted in favour. Then it might be interesting to hear when Langeland stands here on the platform and celebrates this and says that most people want it, if he can document to Stortinget what the status is per. today's date, and how he can at all claim that most people want a running-time charge - also transferred to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1486	It would be crazy to use religion against me, I am an agnostic and get a lot of fun because I worship too little religion, as opposed to the Progress Party, which -- with Israel's vision and stuff -- is constantly wondering about stealing voters from the Christians, so I would have asked myself that. When it comes to the issue of Stockholm, there was popular reconciliation after they had tried it out. People then were so pleased that in the inner part of Stockholm it was over 50pst. --and to me, most people -- voted that this is what they want to continue with. The results of this will be updated in Stavanger in April, when people from Stockholm and the Nordic Council will come to a conference on how we can do something about the greenhouse gas problems, the most important challenge in the world, which the Progress Party does not take.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1495	I'll try again. I felt in no way that the representative Langeland answered my question. He talked away. He talked about Bondevik II, and I think that is completely wrong. So I'll try again. Can the representative of Langeland be honest and admit that it was the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who managed to move the Government in a more climate-friendly direction than the SV did within the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1502	As I said in my previous post, I am very pleased that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party were there and made climate policy better in Norway than he was initially. That's actually the answer to the question. But then my answer was that I'm very happy that the parties to Borghild Tenden, Trond Helleland and Jan Sahl are out of government, because I know that one of their partners had been Per Sandberg, and he says: Climate - what's that? It's kind of the starting point. In a government with the Left and the Advance Party, I can see that there is not only a gas plant on the Snow White Left to build, and then I tip it into a lot of motorways, and then they probably have as good advice as the Progress Party. My point was to complement my answer to the Left when it came to the question of the Left and the other bourgeois parties' efforts for the climate agreement. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1511	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1514	An impressive job has been done in the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County to get Oslopackakt 3 in place. Through four years of political craftsmanship, local and regional politicians have succeeded in reaching a comprehensive compromise to improve the capital’s traffic challenges. But the compromise is broken. It is essential that, when Step 2 is presented, the Government does not include individual elements in the negotiated package. Should that happen, the basis for a broad political consensus is gone. What we are discussing today is a new tolling system based on a proposal from the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County, which in turn builds its decisions on cross-political consensus locally. The two-stage treatment of Oslopackak 3 will speed up the implementation of vulnerable projects and transfers to the operation of public transport than if the package were to be dealt with together. The Christian People's Party supports the Department's proposal for Step 1 and is positive that this will speed up the process. The use of road charges for the operation of public transport has been taken into account. The reason for this is the need to see the transport system in Oslo and Akershus in an overall context. It is necessary to improve collective provision while making large investments in infrastructure. The municipal/communal economy does not only allow such a rise in supply. 20 years of collection and use of road transport charges also for public transport are important prerequisites for the broad political consensus at local level. The political consensus extends from the Progress Party to the SV, and the consensus is that the package contains elements that satisfy the demands of all parties. It will therefore be individual things that we will disagree with in our primary positions. But we must now provide, and be happy, the opportunity to give the East region a significant journey promise. It is disappointing to experience the torpedoing of the local unity of the Advance Party, which I was also involved in the change of line. There are two things here that seem strange on the part of the Christian People's Party: firstly, that one has faith in the fact that in two months, one should be able to convert the whole package and the whole basis of the package by re-establishing a compromise - because that has to be a compromise if one is to be able to finance the remaining projects with state resources. In addition, the bombing should be removed at the same time and the funding base for projects already started and future projects dropped. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it does not seem credible. Oslo Package 3 must be realised and implemented in line with and in line with the local policy settlement. Substantial strengthening of collective provision is necessary, but we are also completely dependent on good road standards. It's not like someone claims that with this, we're facilitating a more environmentally hostile traffic pattern. On the contrary, Oslopacket 3 will give us a much better collective offer through the changes and priorities that are being made. The Christian People's Party believes it is forward-looking and necessary that tolls are also used for the operation of public transport. The number of bus departs shall be increased and the price of monthly pass reduced. The offer of public travellers needs to be strengthened, and I am pleased to have plans for the organisation of my own bicycle tracks. This is a necessary and good environmental policy. In the case of roads, capacity extensions are not unilaterally envisaged. More roads in tunnels and land clearance, inter alia: at sea are examples of good environmental measures. Traffic in the Oslo area will increase sharply in the next few years. The number of inhabitants and the need for mobility will grow. We need to facilitate good solutions both on the road and collectively. The steps that can and should now be taken by the State, thanks to a locally negotiated agreement based on cross-political agreement, provide the Government with a golden opportunity to provide better transport solutions in the central eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1536	I record that the representative Sahl is looking at himself and the Christian People's Party that is almost superior to having financial solutions for transportation projects. I think that's a little sad. I also record that the representative Sahl uses both a cord change and his post to connect this to the deposit election in 2009. I think I should remind the representative Sahl that the 2009 elections are a big choice and not a government choice. However, my question to the representative of Sahl is: When it is claimed that the Progress Party is torpedoing a local settlement, what reasons can one find for it when the law says that there are such issues to be dealt with in this room? Is it true that no matter what local initiative may come, the representative Sahl believes that the Storting should only be flattened and accept these local initiatives? What is the role of the representative of Sahl Stortinget as legislator?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1545	Here we are facing what we from the Christian People's Party will characterize as a historical settlement locally, where in fact all parties in Oslo and in Akershu County by going too many compromises agreed on a solution that they have now asked the Stortinge to join in in order to get the traffic in the central East region organized. Here, too, was the Progress Party, at least 80 p.m. of it. Then it's that we from the Christian People's Party wonder, when one has come to an agreement where the non-socialist parties actually agree -- now I relate to them, and that's what the election will be about in 2009 -- that the Progress Party on the Great Britain will go against this and torpe something that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about, which Left is very concerned about and Right is very concerned about, and which I understand that the Advance Party is committed to being partners in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1550	I am amazed at the surprise of the representative Sahl that the Progress Party adheres to what the law actually provides for, that the State has a responsibility to finance road construction in Norway. There can be neither as a surprise to anyone nor be interpreted in such a way that this is in some way the torpedoing of local initiatives. Local initiatives are primarily to speed up road construction. We'd like to meet that, but with state funding. My question to the representative Sahl, who is cheering about using tolls for the operation of public transport, is how long the tolls with such cheers will last. Is it also openness in the eyes of the Christian People's Party for an everlasting tolling that will ensure the eternal operation of public transport in the Oslo area, so that the bombs are stuck forever with the policies of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1558	To the last one, no, there's a time frame for how long tolls are set. The Christian People's Party is concerned that when the toll period is over, the toll rings should also be taken down--as in this case as well. The Christian People's Party sees toll systems as a necessary evil in order to solve the major traffic challenges we face locally in the Eastern region now, and then it is also reasonable to use some of the same means of collective action to solve the traffickers that we see coming in the Eastern region. So it is that the Christian People's Party also has its primary position. We also have our primary position here in Stortinget, but we are willing to make compromises. That is what the Christian People's Party calls for in relation to the Progress Party in relation to transportation in particular. It is impossible to reach compromises in this area with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1565	First I will be allowed to challenge the representative Sahl on this: soon Christian People's Party must decide. They are constantly showing that the Progress Party is seeking to establish cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, if necessary, after the 2009 Grand Prix elections. As I understand it, both the Christian People's Party and the Left have rejected such a constellation, and then I don't think it matters in that way where you enter into a settlement. The Christian People's Party has now made a compromise in all the political areas with the left side of Norwegian policy. That's it. But the question is, the representative Sahl says that the Christian People's Party also has a primary position. Yes, announce the Christian People's Party's primary position! Is it so that the Christian People's Party could also, if they had political will to do so, find state funding for the kind of infrastructure packages that we see? Or is it that the Christian People's Party supports the use of more and more tolls for operating and investing in public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1572	I find that there is a significant difference between the money book that the Christian People's Party has, and the money book -- to speak a little bit in symbols -- that the Progress Party has. The Christian People's Party has recently been in two governments and has had to take full responsibility for how to use the financial resources that the state has. It suggests that a balance should be found between health, transport and culture. The Christian People's Party sees it that we should be able to solve the major infrastructure tasks we have in the country, there is also a reasonable opportunity to combine state resources with private funding via various forms of toll financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1577	Now it's set the standard here today for different types of lines. I could imagine asking the representative Sahl -- since he is one of those who sit in the committee in this period, who also sat here in the previous period -- whether that's how to understand that Sahl has had ongoing contact with his party colleagues in Akershu County and in Oslo Municipality, and that Sahl has been in front of this deliberation and understood what could happen, and in that way now is not completely surprised at the positions of his local party traps that it might seem like other parties in this room are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1582	I thank you for the question. I can confirm that we have of course been in contact with our party traps both in Akershu County Municipality and in the Municipality of Oslo about how this case has developed, and it is clear that our position here is entirely in line with the position taken by our local politicians. It's supposed to be missing. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that what we are doing should be linked from the municipal level through state level up to the Stortinget, and our vote today is also a result of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1587	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1590	The centre party is particularly pleased that the government has agreed to adopt Oslopackak 3 in two steps. By doing so, the financing of a well-functioning metropolitan transport system has been stepped up. The efficient and environmentally friendly operation of transport in the metropolitan region is very important for the whole country. I would like to stress that the new toll scheme is based on proposals from the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County. The local Oslopacket 3 proposal covers a range of road and collective projects. It is now crucial to have a good interaction between local politicians and the state level, agencies and the ministry, in coordinating priorities locally with the national interests of the new national transport plan. This means that if the new tolling system starts from June 2008, it will be about 220 million. kr in additional income available for actions within Oslopackakt3 already in 2008. By dividing the management of Oslopackak3 into two, one can now start transferring to the operation of public transport much earlier than if one should have managed the package collecting. I am well pleased with the distribution of what is to be used for investment, for the operation of public transport and for maintenance. This distribution is fixed and is the result of the local unit. The reason why this distribution is possible today is that the Storting decided on the change in road laws introduced by the Government earlier this session. Of an economic framework of approximately SEK 54 billion, a now worth $20 billion can be used for public transport. A significant part of this can be used for the operation of public transport. I would like to stress that for the Centre Party, it is important that the use of tolls for the operation of public transport should be based on holistic plans managed at local level. A well-functioning transport system that has a well-developed and accessible public transport option is important for several reasons. The centre party sees that the introduction of demand charging/coking pricing in our major cities can be a well-suited tool for reducing climate emissions and improving the local environment in these communities. Therefore, it is important that further work on Oslopackakt 3 assesses whether the package has a positive impact on climate change emissions, and if not, that the plans can then be adjusted, with local agreement about it. I have noticed that the business community in a letter to Stortinget has supported Oslopackak 3. They are positive for the use of tolls, but they would have liked it to be based on some kind of demand/coffee pricing. This I hope that the Oslo and Akershus politicians will listen to when it comes to negotiating further with the state image in the next phases of Oslopackak 3. While the central party is well aware of this view, it also indicates that all solutions must take further account of all the parties which are part of the local voluntary decision. The national rail system is a national responsibility. I have noticed that in the submission from the ETAs to the National Transport Plan, no double-tracks have been made to Ski. The proposal is not politically addressed, and it is in the Stortinget that we shall adopt the priorities for a new national transport plan. Without delaying either the ongoing hearings or the Central Party and Stortinget's handling of the new National Transport Plan, I would say that we see the challenge, and that we must take this matter seriously in our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1614	The representative said the centre party is very satisfied with this package. The programme of the Centre Party clearly states that the Centre Party is opposed to the use of tolls, and that if it is to be possible to do so, the tolls shall be complementary. Then there will be a big question for the representative of Aarflot Kalland: Does the representative think that over 40 billion dollars in tolls of a total package of 54 billion dollars is to be regarded as a supplement, and how can the centre party vote for this, which is clearly contrary to the party's programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1619	Well, unlike the Progress Party, the Center Party listens to the local populace in this case. So it can be answered so briefly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1624	If you are a witness to what the Center Party likes to call the local initiative, but which is the initiative of a strong central press, you might want to be concerned about providing insurance and guarantees to those who come with such packages. Is it not the centre party that guarantees are to be given for the country to set up, in the same way as the drivers are to set up? What is clear after the majority decision later today is that the drivers are given a very clear and clear responsibility to pay 42 million. kr, but it is very unclear what the State is putting up with, and when the State is setting up. It's kind of like building houses with open funding. The only thing that makes you feel safe is that you have to pay. You don't know exactly when your house is finished, and you don't know exactly what it's going to cost, but you have to start paying. Why does the Central Party not want to secure the drivers, including the initiators, in relation to the state contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1630	Now it is such that it is not possible to provide such a guarantee in the long term in the future. That's what the answer to that question is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1635	I could not fail to hear the representative's reply to the representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, where she said that the Central Party has great faith in the local elected representatives who have made proposals for Oslopackakt 3. That is what we are hearing over and over again, that this is a local proposal and that is why we need to support it. I think that's okay. This package provides for 12 billion DKK of government funding from local teams, and therefore the representative of Kalland supports that funding. Would the representative and the Central Party have supported the local proposal if it had involved - let's say - DKK 40 billion in state funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1642	To answer that would be to answer without seeing the wholeness of this. I can't guarantee that. But it is clear that when local elected representatives take the initiative in such a package as this, we will listen to it to a great extent, and we see the constructive dialogue one has had to do just that. Then I just have to regret that the Central Party has not been involved in the management of the Municipality of Oslo, because we do not have the City Council representative from the Central Party there. But I suppose it can be arranged at the next municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1647	That was the answer I got to my previous question, which makes me ask for a new line. The representative of the Centre Party must be either misinformed or missing information. I wonder where that information comes from to answer that it is not possible for Stortinget to give a signal, to give a mandate, that the state can enter into a long-term agreement. This is done every year. I'm here with Yellow Book, the budget for 2008. It is full of mandate decisions. This can be done by the majority of the population, and they do so every year when they adopt the budget. It authorises the imposition on the State of commitments relating to investment projects beyond the financial year. This can be decided by Stortinget, also in this case, if you want to insure both Akershu County Municipality, Oslo Municipality and not least the drivers who are going to pay NOK 42 billion, that the state is actually going to pay their share, the NOK 12 billion that is in the package. Wouldn't the centre party be in favour of such a power of attorney?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1654	It's like the Center Party takes over what you have access to, but then you also have to take what's wise to do at the current time, and then move on to taking on those obligations. Well, that's where we now see that at this point in time, that's not what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1659	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1662	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has been in good contact with the opposition and thus continues to be the cross-political work that has been a success factor in Oslopackak 3. On the left, it seems positive that the Government will follow up the local work on this package through the proposition. I am also pleased that a broad majority of the Stortinget in the position is behind the main features of the proposition. It is positive that, across party-political dividing lines, we can come together in constructive cooperation that will provide the population of Norway's densely populated area with better transport and collective services in the future. What is not so good, on the other hand, is that the Proposition states that the Ministry of Transport states that railway measures should also be included as part of Oslopackak3 when step 2 is to be submitted to the Stortinget. I would like to point out that Oslopakket 3 is a complete transport package with approx. 80 pst. local funding. Today the railway is the responsibility of the state. It would be a serious discharge if the Government decided to transfer additional expenditure relating to the railway to the local authorities. It will strike under Oslopackak 3 and may overturn the whole of it brittle cross-political settlement. I am very pleased with the central party representative Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland said here on the pulpit instead, as I understood so that the government will come with the double track Oslo-Ski on the first occasion. In view of the environmental challenges we face, and the visions provided by the Government and Government parties in relation to a better rail offer, the Left has great expectations that this will be followed up with action. With the proposal for the NTP under consideration, the State does not take its part in the responsibility for Oslopackak 3. It's suggested a frame of 60 pst. lower than intended. In particular, it is the grant to other national roads that is significantly lower than in the past. This is due, inter alia, to: road length is given higher priority than population. That is why Oslo and Akershus and partly Eastfold come out very badly in the allocation. Finally, the Left would also stress that the local policy agreement that the tolls required through the new section of the Oslo-Akershus County Border are used as a whole to add larger parts of E18 to the environmental tunnel. It is impossible to defend a new payment interface in the Western region unless the planning and work on the ‘New E18 Environmental Road’ project starts immediately. The left assumes that the Government is following up on this in the further work on Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1680	The representative Tenden and Left have been a strong driver and a strong defender of the local settlement. It says respect. I also record that the representative Tende has warned in many ways that the content of the agreement is being tampered with, either in terms of size or in terms of government, or in terms of the Road Directorate, because it is very damaged. Therefore, my question to the representative Tenden is this: Where does the pain limit go to the Left - whether it concerns Oslo Left or Akershus Left, or Left anywhere - in relation to the twinning of this agreement? For example, the Left and the Representative will take the initiative to stop the whole deal. do large parts of the funds move from road to public transport or do new charges come into the picture? Will the representative Tenden then follow up his critical position on the twinning that we have witnessed from various institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1685	I mean I said a lot about it in my post. I have some concerns about what's coming, both on the basis of the NTP that is now available - although we don't yet know what the Government is going to bring - and that with the double-track Ski-Oslo, which is a prerequisite for Oslopackage 3. So I have my concerns, and I'm going to promise that I'm going to follow very well, because there's not much here to fail until the whole thing collapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1690	In this debate we have heard a number of representatives, especially representatives of the government parties, speaking positively for the use of road pricing. Now there is no suggestion for road pricing in Oslopackak 3 so far. I also know that the left is basically positive for road pricing. I think we're going to have proposals for road pricing in the Oslo area in some time. Could it be interesting then to ask the representative Tenden if the Left believes that road pricing is a good virchemist in the transport policy in this area? The representative's tendency is from Bærum. So that's where we get a bomb in the middle of a municipality. Does the representative tend to think that this is a well-thought-out proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1700	As the representative says, on the first question, on the issue of a running time charge, it is quite right that it is stated in the programme of the Left. This is not to say that we cannot also go for other wise local solutions, such as what we perceive as Oslopackak 3. It is a continuation of Oslopackakt 1 and Oslopackakt 2. The left has been a driver and has worked on this in the back room for a long time. There are a lot of measures in Oslopackak 3 that are very important for the Left. One of the important measures, as the representative mentioned, is the environmental tunnel E18, to spare the Asker centre, to spare the Bærum centre, to protect the inhabitants living near the heavily environmentally congested route. And then it's not like that, as many people claim, that it will lead to a lot of cars towards the city. It's not like that. There must be collective fields in which public transport will flow more easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1707	We heard in a line change that I had with the representative of Kalland that the government parties are very concerned about following up local proposals. Then we know that this proposal, which is a local proposal for Oslo and Akershus, proposes a total package of SEK 54 billion, of which DKK 12 billion will be state funding. The representative of Kalland of the Central Party could not exclude that the Centre Party would have supported a higher proportion of State funding in Oslopackak 3 if it had been proposed by local teams. Does the representative Tenden and Left think that the politicians in Oslo and Akershus have been too modest about the proportion of government funding proposed in Oslopackak 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1712	I think that the local politicians in Oslo and Bærum have been very realistic about what they think can go through in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1717	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1720	The metropolitan area faces major transport and environmental challenges. It is so great that local authorities have taken this seriously and have managed to achieve a broad cross-political agreement that the road procurement payments in Oslo and Akershus will continue. Against this background, a proposal for Oslopackakt 3 is locally adopted, which is a package of toll-financed transport measures in Oslo and Akershus in the period 2008-2027. The local decisions assume that the package measures will be implemented over a period of 20 years and will be financed by road and public funding. The economic framework of the local proposal is approximately DKK 54 billion. Oslopackak 3 will replace today's toll system, Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2. In the past, it has been suggested that Oslopackak 3 should be submitted in two steps. With this first step it will be ensured that as early as possible this year can start with the increased toll ignition. The ministry has done everything in its power to satisfy the wishes of local authorities to present this proposition as early as possible. The government has no position for a project portfolio in Oslopackak 3 when this is submitted by step 1. In step 2, it will bring together the development plan for Oslopackakt3 and the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the package host presented, including: in the light of ongoing work on quality assurance, so-called KS1. Step 2 will be presented as a known host in connection with the submission of NTP for the period 2010-2019 in December. Railway measures are not included in the local proposal for Oslopackak 3, but I think that the railway is a natural part of the collective system in the capital city area, and so I suggest that the railway should be included as part of the package. This should, as before, be financed by the State, but is important to be included in the package in order to see the whole transport infrastructure in context. I am pleased that the majority in the committee is agreed with the Government that it is important to get started as early as possible with the increase in collection, so that the good measures in the package can say funding. In view of the changes in road laws that the Storting handled earlier in winter, this includes: tolls may be used for public service operations. On the road side I would like to particularly draw on rv. 150 wolf-splitting senses, which can now start up again. I am glad that Stortinget has prioritised giving Oslopackak 3 steps 1 a quick handling. The collection shall take place in existing bombardment and a new automatic payment section shall be established in the Bærum. The transition to automatic collection involves a much more efficient collection system than what we have today, which in turn makes it possible to use more of the resources of the actions for which the packages are established. The government has not wished to review the local tariff system decisions, even though they differ to a certain extent from the general tariff guidelines. The tariffs will be tripled for heavy goods vehicles, and I see the challenges this can bring with it, especially for commercial transport. So I suggest that the tariffs and their consequences be evaluated. With the new tariffs and the new payment cut in Bærum, toll ignition will increase by about 750 million. kr per. years. From 2009 onwards, this represents a total of about 1 850 million. kr per. years in net toll revenue. But there will also be more revenue already this year - about 220 million in size. kr - which can be used for actions within the package. Depending on the speed with which it is decided by Stortinget, this amount may be higher. In the context of the revised 2008 national budget, I will come back with a more detailed description of the use of revenue. In the case of the management of toll resources to be used for public transport operations, the State and local authorities have agreed that the State Road Administration will manage the aggregate cash flow from the toll company. Furthermore, it is agreed that the use of operational resources should be managed on the basis of local policy decisions within the framework laid down by the Stortinge. A simple and prudent transfer system shall be established directly to Router AS. The senior management model for Oslopackak 3 will be discussed further in the context of the work on step 2. I have also noticed that a large majority in the Committee refers to the climate agreement, and that the transport sector is an important source of CO2 emissions and therefore a sector in which it needs to be cut. This is a stop I'm glad there's such a big cross-political deal about. I am therefore in agreement with the plurality that the climate impact of Oslopackak 3 has to be assessed in the further work to see if there is a need for adjustments to improve the climate impact of the package. It is important here to look at the combination of collective action and measures to reduce traffic. As mentioned, the package health will be dealt with in the step 2 proposal later this year. Of course, I'm aware of the fragile local politics deal about Oslopackak 3 and the different entrance tickets that the various parties have had to join the partnership. It is therefore absolutely necessary and natural to have a close dialogue with local authorities in the further work on step 2. This is a work I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1752	The vast majority of questions related to Oslopackakt 3 have been asked earlier today, but there is still a little clarification of what is going on in the last comments that have come here about the climate agreement in Stortinget. I am not going to challenge the Council of State on what the Central Party said during the climate agreement in 1989, namely that the Central Party wanted to cut the CO2 emissions by 50 pst, and whether they have succeeded in doing so, but rather challenge what it believes Oslopacket 3 will produce results for the environment and climate emissions. Do you think that the thoughts about restrictions on cars and what are now coming from the Directorate in the case of the low-emission zone will lead to a reduction in emissions from traffic in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1760	First of all, I'm sorry that the Central Party has unfortunately not got so much clearance in the people that we have been able to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. Imagine if we could do that! Then I'm busy that we're going to follow it up as a broad majority in Stortinget is some about, that is, that we're going to go through the climate effects of the package and of course come back with our assessment of it. Low-flow zone is a tested measure that has been shown to have an effect on climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1767	I am pleased that, at the most important points, we have reached an agreement also in the Stortingen on step 1 in Oslopackak 3, and I was also pleased with the clarification the Council of State has now made. In her post there were quotes from the proposition, but she added a confession when it was about the railway, where she said that this should, as before, be financed by the state--if I remember somewhat correctly. It sounds good, but it should still be included in the package. And then the question is, do they have to pay the money, for example? to the Oslo-Ski railway, go off the pot of 12 billion kroner that is provided by the state to finance Oslopackak 3? So this now means that putting the railway in powders the state contribution to roads, among other things. and public transport in Oslo, or is it to be kept completely outside? Could the Council of State be clear about that now, so that we get calm in the mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1774	It's a pleasure for the Council of State to be able to calm the representative of Greece in the soul. I can confirm that there will be no merger of funding here. The state is going to finance the railway operation, but the reason why we put it in the package, as I said, is that we can then see the whole transport system in context. In an area with as complex a transport system as in the Oslo region, it is a clear advantage for all parties that we are able to sew this together in a good way. So that's just what's meant, and not tricking and mixing with the resources that's thought of in the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1780	On 8 March, the Council of State was interviewed by Asker and Bærums Budstikke. She was challenged on a new E18. There, the Council of State of Navarsete says: «But we'll have to wait for the second step of Oslopackak3. For the time being, we hope that the forthcoming bombing, together with a significantly improved collective offer, will solve the problem so that no extension is necessary.’ I hope she's right quoted. If not, she'll be corrected afterwards. My question is, does the Council expect people in the West to pay an extra bombardment without getting anything in the form of a new E18?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1792	First, the Council of States is not quoted correctly. What I was referring to was that one started the collection now, and that I was hoping that, along with an improvement in the collective supply that wasn't least connected to trains, and the unfortunate circumstances that we've had there, and that we've now caught up with, it would make the pressure less at that time, but I haven't referred to the contents of the package. I do not, in principle, because I am not considering that content at all, and that is why I am not referring to it either. I understand that those who are going to be heavy with and fund the package will also have something left for it. Of course, this is also my attitude towards E18. In this way, I don't plan to torpedoes it from my side, but it's the same thing as for all other projects, I haven't been in and I've taken a position on the composition in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1799	The Council of State confirmed by its statement that a great deal has not been clarified in the case of Oslopackak 3. What's clear is that the drivers are going to start paying immediately, and they're going to pay NOK 42 billion. What can be clarified by decision-making today is that the drivers are assured that the State Party will actually make its contribution of NOK 12 billion. It has to be done by proxy decision, and that is why I have once again taken the yellow book, with which I am waving, and which is full of proxy decisions. This is the normal procedure in Stortingen's handling of economic matters. Oslopackak 3 is, to the most extent, a matter with great economic consequences. I ask - and hope for a clear answer: Is there anything to prevent, as the Council of State sees it, that the Stortinget can today take a mandate decision that gives the Ministry the opportunity to enter into a binding legal agreement with Akershus and Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1809	Yeah, I'll say it's some obstacles. For the first time, the package itself has not been successfully processed. We haven't even started that management in the department. Secondly, in December we will present a national transport plan. This package must, of course, be integrated into the national transport plan, similar to all other projects around this country. At least I appreciate that people in the country would feel pretty bad to treat if one gave one project a very special special treatment. Packages exist in the other big cities. There are other packages around which such a treatment should also be desired. I want to equalize all the packages. Oslopacket 3 shall enter into the national transport plan. Funding shall be included in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1814	I thank you for the answer, but feel it necessary to repeat the question. I am recording the reference to the ongoing planning process related to the National Transport Plan, but this is actually a large package that goes 20 years ahead in time, and where the drivers are today not only invited to, but required to start their payment of their share of 42 billion kroner in the current year, 2008. Although, of course, the state's contribution must be seen within the framework of the twelve billions also linked to the national transport plan, there can be no formal obstacle to the Storting granting that guarantee already today, linked to the fact that the State somehow meets its obligation of DKK 12 billion in 20 years. That's the one. That's political. But the formality must also be fully possible, and I would like the Council of State to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1823	We have a system in Norway where we prioritise transport investment within a framework proposed by the Government in the National Transport Plan and the Stortinget. That work hasn't started either. The national transport plan is now being heard in the counties. Once that work is done, the Government will look at both Oslopackakt 3 and all other projects. At least the Government shall determine a frame within which we shall give priority. In view of this, it is not appropriate for the Council of State to grant such an authorisation today. This is simply not handled well enough for you to do it. So we have half a case. We have step 1, which is finished handling, and as the Storting is done handling it today. But step 2 is far from being fully processed, and all the elements that are going in there are not cleared. The priorities will come with us in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1828	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1833	In response to the representative Arne Sortevik, the Council of State said that for the rest of the country, who might feel ill-treated, one could not now go in and have a kind of special treatment for the Oslo region. I come from a region, Asker and Bærum, and have relatively good experience from there. But we feel that we have been treated relatively poorly for many years in the field of transportation. The challenges we have with the road situation have been a repetition for years, mainly in the case of E18. I would say that there is a significant degree of fatigue that exists in both the population and politicians of the two municipalities. The representative of Sortevik has talked about municipalities and counties being pushed into a situation. Once you have exhausted enough for a long time, you can also get solutions that can look good for the state by some kind of extortion. For years we have been promised action, but little or nothing has happened. The challenge now, not to dwell too long on history, is, if there is reason for greater optimism. I'm not sure, especially when we know that several of the parties that form the majority of this package are initially both sceptical and even opponents of the new E18. With the experience we have, there is reason to be significantly skeptical about whether there is a willingness to invest the funds that it is signaled to come from the state. In addition, the majority chooses to give themselves a fluctrate by saying that one should have a climate assessment of the entire Oslo package. The state's Vegvesen already says that it involves a higher collective share and fewer major road projects. The new E18 is probably one of the largest road projects in Oslopackak 3. So, from my point of view, there's a significant fear that something is going to happen here. Some of us have believed that we have been involved in financing the new E18 for at least nearly 20 years when we have paid for existing bombing. The only thing that seems certain is that the drivers in Asker, Bærum, Oslo and Akershus will continue to pay tolls. If we get anything left on the road, I'm excited-- I'm excited if the majority is able to fulfill that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1844	As a representative from Bærum, Akershus and the Capital Region, I am pleased to be presented by the Government and the Committee. It's been a long way, but now we've taken the first step in the Great Britain for the realization of Oslopackak 3. It is the largest overall and coordinated project for an improved transport system for the Capital Region, but with national significance, where new and environmentally friendly E18 in the West Corridor is the largest single project. I would like to commend local elected authorities in Akershus and Oslo who have laid the foundation for Oslopackak 3. I would also like to stress that Oslopackak 3 is a whole, a compromise, both in the project portfolio and funding. It is necessary to implement road procurement as soon as possible in both Oslo ring and the new intersection of the Bærum-Oslo border in order to ensure funding for projects already under way in the road and collective fields, such as: E16 Vøen-Bjørum and new Kolsåsbahn, and that tolls should be used for the operation of improved collective services. The funds must be used in line with the assumptions of Oslopackakt 3, which the Ministry also underlines. I am sure that the Council of State sees the great opportunities offered by the transport bill, and the responsibility of local elected representatives with broad cross-political consensus has taken to improve the transport system in the Greater Region, and that the Government will therefore follow the main lines of Oslopackak 3. I assume that adjustments take place in consultation and agreement with local authorities and the parties to the agreement. An important prerequisite is also that the Government follow up the state contributions in the national transport plan and the future budget. I support the Committee's view that the Government will assess, by submitting Phase 2 for Oslopackak 3 to the autumn, the possibilities for a rapid implementation advance and to ensure rational progress in the large, heavy projects such as: new E18. Self-reliance of the Government on the follow-up and financing of railway investments, e.g.: the double track is also necessary for a completely improved transport system. I see that in this case, too, the Progress Party has been fully sidelined, despite the courageous efforts of the Oslo Progress Party. But it's going to be a parentheses today, with the other cross-political consensus in the case. But I understood from the representative, Höglund, that they were so worn out that they did not stand out the whole race. Many people believe that compromise is a proponent and underestimated as a tool for good political solutions. I agree, and the matter here today is a new confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1863	The Progress Party fears that drivers in Oslo and Akershus will have to pay most of the road investment in the region over the next 20 years, with sky-high bomb charges. I fear that the state will fail in the contents of Oslopackakt 3, which may result in less road construction, less collective effort and increased prices in the bombardment. There has been a lot of noise and unrest around Norway's biggest road traffic in recent months. One would think that unrest, noise and dissatisfaction have enough of the government. Will the Government meet its commitments in Oslopackak 3, thus contributing the 12 billion DKK of the Oslopackak price of a total of 54 billion DKK? A simple yes from the council had been in place here today. We heard in an earlier case today, about the capital announcement, that Rolf Reikvam almost guaranteed the money, but I fear that it is not enough in this case. When the Council of State does not want to confirm the country's obligations, it creates uncertainty about the entire Oslopacket 3. But not least, state councils fire under pure speculation. One is that the drivers will have to pay a lot more in the bombing than was intended. The second is that the Government will now send the bill for very poor maintenance of the railway over several decades, and for the future development of the railway, to the drivers in Oslo and Akershus. Oslopackak 3 is built on a very fragile political consensus between politicians in Oslo and Akershus. The Progress Party in Akershus voted against Oslopackak 3 being financed by tolls. I imagine that the red-green government will have a tough enough challenge if this shatters the consensus would go. Sverre Myrli, representative of the Grand Duchy of Rome, spoke to the magazine of Rome and asked the Right to stand with the Labour Party to ensure that the Government does not fail Oslopackak 3. He would be watchful, as he expressed it. It cannot be interpreted differently than that the representative Myrli does not trust the Council of State in terms of a guarantee of NOK 12 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1876	When Oslopackakt 3 now replaces Oslopackakt 1 and 2, there is also an important recognition that strong action is needed in this region to strengthen public transport at the expense of private cars. It will be the main contribution of the Capital Region to the achievement of the climate agreement's emission reduction objectives. Watching all the cars where the drivers are sitting alone morning and evening in line on our highways, can be proof of truth enough for something to be done. Good arguments can be made that toll collection is an unsocial tax for young children's parents who depend on the car to combine delivery in kindergarten with the job. Anyone who observes will see that there are probably far more of my category in that car queue - in terms of both age and sex - than there are toddlers. Something has to be done, and I am pleased to note that a broad majority of the vote is pleased that, through today's treatment in the Stortinget, we have a decision that will allow the tolling in the Oslo region to change into a new phase in a short time. It is important to note that the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus also stand behind Oslopackak 3. Most people understand the relationship between road transport and environmental degradation and the need to invest in public transport. The party of progress is not the party of the “most people” in this case – at least not here on the Stortinget. Locally, there is also a greater understanding in that party that something has to be done. We have put in place the amendment of the law that gives us room to use toll revenue for public transport. Through today's treatment, we will get decisions on the start of new toll collection and new toll section in the Bærum. Then we have to wait at the national transport level before deciding on state transport investments in Oslo and Akershus for the next ten years. We will have a new case about the Oslopack 3 projects, especially those concerning the large investments in the road sector. Not everything is decided today. Some of the warnings about chaos if not all the assumptions from Oslo and Akershus are guaranteed. I understand so much that you are afraid of the fragile compromises, but I also want to warn you a little bit about building up under such an all-or-nothing threat. We know that there are fragile compromises underpinning the majority behind the Oslo and Akershus package, but neither we here on the Stortinget, the state politicians or the municipal politicians know all about the costs and consequences of the projects included in the package. That's what you're dealing with right now. A broad majority calls for further consideration of the climate impacts of Oslopackakt 3. I'm glad. We simply do not tolerate an environmental package of SEK 53 billion that does not have an intended environmental impact. Akershus has in his priorities the basis of 57 pst. of the revenue derived from the package shall be used for collective actions. 43 pst. shall be used by road. Oslo has a smaller focus on collective action. I think it's worth looking at whether this is the optimal -- we have time to wait for phase 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1898	I think there is every reason to commend the important cross-political work that has been done in Oslo and Akershus with regard to Oslopackak 3. Over 50 pst. of Oslo’s greenhouse gas emissions originate from road traffic. It is obvious that we need to focus most on reducing emissions from cars if we are to have something significant done with greenhouse gas emissions in our region. I'm glad that Oslo and Akershus are in the front when it comes to using tolls to finance the operation of public transport. 25 pst. tolls shall be used for operation and maintenance and for investments in collective actions. It will mean a formidable rise. It is extremely important that we now get step one in place, so that we can start transferring funds for the operation of public transport. I think it's great that all parties in the Transport and Communications Committee - except the Progress Party - are bringing forward the climate agreement. It shows that awareness of the contribution of the transport sector to the climate problem is high. It is great for us in the Energy and Environment Committee to have the Transport and Communications Committee involved in the fight to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. It is good that the climate impact of Oslopackak 3 should be assessed. The challenges we face on the climate side require one hand to know what the other is doing. Knowledge of the climate impact of such a large transport project is absolutely necessary. If the climate effect of Oslopackakt3 is negative, it has to be adjusted. And it is obvious that it must be done in close cooperation with local politicians, if that is the case. Then I have to say a few words about the Advance Party. It'll be a little special to sit in the hall today and hear that councillor Peter N. Myhre has almost been forced to attend Oslopackak 3. When you listen to some of the party representatives, you can almost get the impression that here Myhre has been sitting basked and tied in the chair and with the restraining pen signed on this consensus. But I observed during the election campaign in Oslo last year harvest the same Myhr in a series of contexts, where he went from one debate to the other and bragged the Oslo package and the consensus in the clouds. Although this is bad to swallow for Myhre's party colleagues here at Stortinget -- we have clearly demonstrated that today -- I believe that there are bounds for double standards and for attempts to ride several horses at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1913	The store today deals with St.prp. No 40, 40, 40, 40, This deals with proposals to introduce a new toll scheme for the Oslo area, Oslopackak 3. The traffic situation around several of the major cities in Norway is precarious. The car density is high, and the road capacity is blasted. The provision of public services in and around cities has not been upgraded in such a way that it significantly relieves car traffic. The reasons for the major traffic problems are a clear lack of current government, but also of previous governments: not enough funds have been allocated to state budgets to build road systems with the necessary capacity to cope with current traffic. The same deficiencies also apply to trains and tracks. The red-green government will finance Oslopackak 3 with 42 billion kroner from toll collection and only 12 billion kroner from the state. Financing, planning and construction of highways is a government task. With today's fees, the drivers pay 60 billion kroner a year, of which only a quarter are used for road purposes. The Progress Party is and has always been opposed to financing road projects with tolls, as is the case with today's toll collection for the financing of Oslopackak 3. In my home country, West Agder, we've had more toll projects. The two OPS projects The Lister Package and a new four-field route between Grimstad and Kristiansand are best known. The main component of the Lister package was a new and shorter trajectory of E39, while the entire package consisted of nine subprojects. There's two hundred ninety million missing. kr to complete the remaining projects. The cost gap is due to poor mountains and increased development costs. Additional costs of a total of 290 million. kr is not abnormal. However, the abnormality is that the State refuses to pay the extra costs. The municipalities of the Listerregion and the West-Agder County Municipality have been pressed to cover the additional costs if the Lister package is to be completed. The county's worth 60 million. kr from other sorely needy national road projects in West Agder, while the bill of the remaining 230 million. kr is sent to the drivers. The tolling period is increased from 15 to 19 years, and the price per tonne. the vehicle is increased by 25 pst. When the State has over NOK 2 000 billion on the book, toll collection for transportation is completely unnecessary. The Progress Party will, as in the past, work to abolish the toll financing and will therefore oppose the Government's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1932	Oslo and Akershus experienced a strong growth in the population after the war, and thus also a strong growth in traffic. In the 1980s it no longer went: car traffic stood still - over Vålerenga, in Bygdøj allé and several other places. The politicians in Oslo and Akershus had to take some action and some unpopular decisions. We got the Oslo package, based on the so-called Mountain Line. The drivers had to pay and the state had to pay for road construction in Oslo and Akershus. Oslopack 1, which we are now saying, has been a success. In the 1990s Oslopacket 2, which resulted in significant investments in public transport in Oslo and Akershus - a new split layer. Oslopackak 1 and Oslopackak 2 have been crucial to finding good transport solutions in the metropolitan region. But it won't last. Now, if we're going to find good transport solutions, we're going to have to do something fundamentally with public transport. That's why it's historic that we can now use tolls for the operation of public transport. And let me underline: this funding is to be added to what Oslo, Akershus and the state use on public transport in the capital region today. Already this year, public transport will receive considerable funding. The collective offer in Oslo and Akershus will be significantly improved and expanded. But it's not either road or public transport - both have to do. That's what's so unique about Oslopackak 3. Oslopackakt 3 will lead us to solve also important and absolutely necessary road projects. For my own part I will mention rv. 22 between Fetsund and Lillestrøm, where the traffic is pal morning and afternoon, and I will mention rv. 4 in Nittedal. Rv. 22 is the connection between the eastern parts of Romerike and parts of Eastfold to Lillestrøm and Oslo. Rv. 4 is an important link between Uppland and Nittedal into the capital. With Oslopackak 3 we finally got something done with rv. 22 and Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox It's about time. Finally, I would like to say to the representative Thomsen: there is no need to wonder whether the state should not fulfil its obligations to Oslopackak 3. All parties in Oslo agree on Oslopackak 3. All parties in Akershus, with the exception of the Advance Party, and all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, agree on Oslopackakt 3. If the fear of Thomsen's representative was to become a reality, that the state would not stand up in the case of Oslopak 3, then the voters would have to give the Progress Party a pure majority in this assembly at the next election. I'm pretty sure the Norwegian people don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1943	I will first join in all that Sverre Myrli said at the end. Large parts of Oslo's transport challenges and plans for transport solutions are specifically included in Oslopackak 3. The historical investment in public transport means better regularity, better frequency and flexibility, which in turn means better provision for all those who are going to work, who are going to deliver children in kindergarten, or who are going home from theater, cinema or where they have now been. Oslopackak 3 is also important as an environmental and climate action. Therefore, it is important that the climate impact of Oslopackak 3 be looked at in the further work, as the majority of the committees underline. We have recently received a climate settlement, adopted in Stortinget. The importance of increased collective and traffic reduction measures in urban areas has been identified. So it's important that we end up with Oslopackak 3. There is reason to commend the inter-political agreement negotiated by the politicians in Oslo and Akershus. Rune Gerhardsen has characterized it as robust, at least locally. Then it is important that we also ensure that it becomes robust. I would also like to commend the rapporteur for a very good attitude and for a quick treatment in the Committee on Transport and Communications. A project located in Oslopakket 3 is - or can be characterised as - a purely environmental project. It is an environmental cover or tunnel under today's E6 from Alnabru to Karihaugen, i.e. through Groruddalen. This is actually about the quality of life of 130 000 people in the most populous valley in Norway. I would like to ask the Council of State today to ensure that an investigation is made into this particular project in the State Road Service. Finally, it is that the railway is not included in Oslopackak 3. In order to reroll the national transport plan, it is important to look at the local traffic in the Oslo region, and in particular at the double-track Oslo-Ski and the improvements that it will mean for all those who are going to work, whether it is from Søndre Nordstrand or it is from Østfold, further out. It may well be worth mentioning that Holmlia station today is actually the country's most busy railway station--it's neither Oslo S nor for that matter Trondheim and Bergen, but there's little Holmlia station in the Søndre Nordstrand district. Finally, let me say that I have never seen a party that has sat down so to the degrees on the sideline that the Progress Party has done in this debate and in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1962	Not only has the majority of the population diverted the majority of road investment from the state to the drivers, but toll financing is also in full use in this country. And the crown of the work is now the twinkling with the contents of Oslopackakt 3 as the majority alerts - for the sake of their own climate settlement. Obviously, it's not enough for politicians on the board that the drivers, who are going to pay over 40 out of 54 billion dollars, are going to get away with this money to a limited extent. No, in the rush of any ‘climate’-related action currently being taken, a symbolic change of Oslopacket 3 is indicated in a so-called more climate-friendly direction. This is the purest hesitation and only confirms the majority's desire to build even less of a road, despite an increasing number of new and creatively imposed taxes and charges in the signs of the climate. I find that now, at the very moment of treatment of Oslopackak3, a collective majority is willing to overrun the otherwise sunken local unity that has made the package possible at all. This is worth noting also outside this hall. The investigation by the State Road Administration states that road pricing has a limited impact on greenhouse gas emissions, and the change in car traffic with a modified concept - less to the road and more to the collective measures for car tolls - remains entirely marginal, according to the State Road Service investigation. It is appropriate to recall last year's SINTEF report, which refers to massive emission reductions and to greatly improved accessibility in the development of road systems - also towards major cities, but of course supplemented by collective measures if not car traffic is to take over completely. The Progress Party has proposed a State investment programme for this transport project of major national importance, which is, in reality, Oslopacket 3. We have even lifted our eyes and seen the entire intercity triangle between Skien, Halden and Hamar/Lillehammer as a whole and proposed a transport package for the East where Oslopacket 3 is part of a comprehensive national transport effort. This includes efficient, safe and environmentally friendly four-field roads, bypass bypass solutions outside cities and, of course, double-track rail all the way. State funding is only about relocating a little more of our financial assets abroad into real investment in value creation in your own country. Not one crown shall be collected in tolls, that is not necessary. However, the Progress Party is more concerned with investing in functional and profitable transport projects than with launching ever-increasing new ways of paying even more taxes and taxes out of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1979	The President is of the opinion that the word 'doubt' is not a parliamentary term - just for saying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e1982	The undersigned thinks that the representative's remarks here were very good. Let me start this article with a strong regret. I regret on behalf of the inhabitants of Akershus that the local politicians in Akershus have been as modest as they have been. During this debate we have heard several times from, among other things. the Council of State and from some representatives that it is important to support local projects. In a line change, we were even told that it was not inconceivable that the government would have supported a higher government share of the financing of Oslopackak 3 if it had been suggested from local teams. I think we can all agree that there has been a significant modesty in the proposal of local teams in Oslo and Akershus. It is only Akershu's Progress Party and the Advance Party's big group who have been awake in this matter. And there are some people who have tried to make it seem like the Progress Party is against Oslopackak3. No, we're not against Oslopackak 3. We have come up with a solution of our own to finance, where the state takes on the responsibility of providing the country with a functioning infrastructure. The next question can be asked: So when the state runs away from its responsibility in terms of investment in road and public transport, and leaves it to its citizens, what's next? If you increase the percentages of health care, you take more in parental pay at school, etc., etc.? And here you can imagine a lot of solutions. But what I think has been most worrying in this debate is that I think we're going to get road pricing around Oslo. There have now been so many signals from representatives of the government parties and from some opposition parties that it is very likely that this will occur in a relatively short time. It is not certain that the Government will propose this in connection with Oslopackakt 3, but in connection with climate settlements, etc. There will be proposals for an increase in the rates of bombing around Oslo. The centre party wants this, the working party wants this, the left has been up and said that they are positive for road pricing, SV is it - a number of representatives have not excluded this. We know the state road system is too. I know that there are great chances that the bureaucracy in the Ministry of Transport too is for such a solution, and I'm afraid of what kind of advice the Council of State is going to get when this comes to her table.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2000	There has been a relatively predictable debate with a rather large element of pre-post-fection, not least in the case of the possible mix between Oslopacket 3 and railway investments which are not part of the local agreement, although state funds for the construction of new double-track Oslo-Ski are a prerequisite for the settlement at all. The representative of Langeland was quite right in what he said earlier in the debate: this agreement is so far a good craft. But how useful it will be, we'll see for the harvest. It is to what extent funding and actions are related that determine whether it is in line with what the Right has always provided for as a contracting party, namely that it is not part of that picture. With regard to the climate challenges, there is reason to point out that Akershu County Municipality, completely independent of this government, has submitted to a large-scale environmental offensive under the direction of Right County rapporteur, Mr. Jagstad, while under similar leadership, supported by the Advance Party on previous occasions, Oslo has probably been designated as an environmental city. As a former county councilman in Akershus, I do not have very good experience with the state and the NSB, despite being one of NSB's largest customers. I hope, therefore, that the representative of Langeland's indicative opposition to the settlement, as a rush-time charge will be, is not a signal that the obliging dialogue all the others, with the exception of the Progress Party, seem to agree, not a dialogue, but a dictatorship - or that there will be a bracket such as the representative of Kalland made it into his post, but quickly corrected afterwards. The representative of Greece from the Right has been calmed down by the fact that the Council of State clearly assures us that there will not be a mix of Oslopacket 3 funds and state funds for the railway. Should a crowd of county leaders from Akershus Right not only get calm, but also sleep at night, the Council of State has every reason to return the SEK 2.3 billion that is undercover in the Norwegian Transport Plan. Otherwise, I hope that the Oslopacket 3 process will be inversely proportional to the experience you have with follow-up to movies, where number two and three rarely become as good as number one. With regard to the implementation of the Oslo Packages, I agree with the representative of Myrli that it has been important, but I have a hope that all good things are three, and that Oslopackak 3 will be even better than Oslopackak 1 and 2. It doesn't have to be too much. With regard to modesty, and that representatives from the Progress Party regret the modesty of some in the district of Akershus and in the Municipality of Oslo, I unfortunately believe that in this matter modesty is a virtue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2017	What separates the Progress Party from the other parties in this matter, as in almost all other toll cases, is that the Progress Party has a Sarepta pot to go out of. Here they're going to spend $54 billion, and that's the way it is in every other context. Should it never happen that the Norwegian people will experience that the Progress Party will be in a position to put the country's economy entirely above its limits? What's important here now is that it will take a first step in a major and important effort to solve the transport challenge in the Oslo region. It's particularly important that a person gets a collective effort, and deciding here is just the decision to raise the issue where we changed the promise so that a person can now use tolls for investment in public transport. I feel that there is a lot of will to accept toll payment, all the time you see a result of it, among other things. in the form of a better collective solution. It also marks transport users, the Truck Car Association with more, because it opens up to make them much better accessible on the road as well. However, much of the debate that has been going on here today is actually part of phase two. The Progress Party is deeply involved in the debate that necessarily belongs to the next phase. The government is also very open in the proposition that there is very different status on the different projects that are here and that there are some uncertainties about it. Therefore, the package itself needs to be processed later and seen in conjunction with NTP. We have to come back to the finite state frames and many of the other conditions for which the Progress Party criticises the proposition. Otherwise, I totally agree with the remark that the Christian People's Party, Right and Left have in common, that Oslo-Ski is an important project that it is urgent to implement, almost independently of an oslo package. In this way I believe that a single possible should be able to construct double tracks on the entire triangle Oslo-Halden-Ski and against Lillehammer. It would have been a good start on a possible future high-speed path. Then we've plotted the course in that way. I thought the Minister for Transport was very generous about the way she has dealt with this matter and got her to the Stortinget quickly. Here you can start running, for example. the transfer to operation and public transport much earlier than the simultaneous processing of packages. There is clear evidence that one will respect the local authorities and decisions here. In this way, I would like to comment on what has been said about the climate agreement. Of course, there has been much more focus on the consequences of car traffic for the climate after the agreement on oslopack was reached. Then it is not unnatural for one to go through this and possibly jointly adjust things that can get better in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2032	I sincerely hope that the representative Rudihagen will be wrong, and I sincerely hope that the Progress Party will be properly controlled, among others. transport policy after the 2009 elections. We're for the most part of Oslopackak 3, we're for 80 pst. This is about the investments both on the road side and on the collective side. The Progress Party has a different form of funding. We are proposing a state project, with state-funded project funding. Then it is also natural to recall that the previous speaker, the representative Rudihagen, outside this building and outside this hall, has often been concerned with putting in place a project finance that can enable the building to be built more quickly. It is precisely the prescription of the Progress Party in this matter, and we also have several other financial tools that enable us to consolidate and strengthen the development of Norwegian infrastructure, of Norwegian transport networks. The Council of State said in its statement and in its reply that this matter has not been dealt with. But what we are dealing with today is the financial framework. What is being processed when we are dealing with the financial framework today is that the drivers have to pay. They're told that they're going to start paying, and they're told how much they're going to pay. What they don't know is that they can be absolutely sure that the state has to pay, and when the state has to pay their 12 billion kroner. And if you are so very sure that this state commitment in this project will be fulfilled to the point and the point, that would not prevent you from actually ensuring it with a guarantee. That is why we have adjusted our proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox I repeat: that is why we have adjusted our proposal No. 4 - to what is distributed in the hall today - so that the Storting actually gives a mandate to a government council that obviously does not want such an authority. But the Storting may as well give such authority to the Council of State. It is precisely to be able to provide a guarantee with the other two partners in this large package, Akershus County Municipality and Oslo Municipality, which ensures that the state's share of NOK 12 billion comes into place. The Progress Party will also propose that it be paid in advance and paid over a period of 10 years. It finally gives me an opportunity to remember the following: well, this is a 20-year package, and it has a frame of 54 billion kroner. But we don't have to lose weight in that amount, we have to divide by 20. So we're talking about an annual state investment of NOK 2.7 billion. But as oil money flows into the box, there should be no problem with meeting it through government project funding, as we did at the main airport and at the Gardermoban.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2044	There is something wonderful about this debate. I record that all the parties that are now going to thin the car lists for more than 40 billion kroner are choosing to have an intrusion angle in the debate that is about to criticise the Progress Party. You shouldn't care about the Progress Party, because you have a huge majority behind you! We can't influence the majority that's behind the situation here, they have the power at both ends. All parties except the Advance Party have the power. They have chosen to run away as quickly as possible from the responsibility of the state, which is enshrined in the law. The same majority today that has previously chosen to adopt new laws to beat in whole old, existing laws that clarify the responsibility of the State. For me who comes from a small village in Trøndelag, it means direct irresponsibility. For me who comes from a small town in the North-Trøndelag, it means immorality when the highest political level in Norway, the legislators, adopt new laws to pass in whole-old laws that establish that the state is responsible. That's what this is about. But don't criticize the Progress Party for that! The representative Rudihagen even performs to criticize the Progress Party because we discuss more than what goes on funding. What should be expected, when the proposition says that we should now adopt the new toll scheme based on proposals in Oslo and Akershus, and the measures contained in the package are planned to be implemented over a period of 20 years? And then we are criticized because we debate and take the content seriously -- what the same majority wants to adopt. I understand that the representatives of this majority have a need to jump and hide. That's what they're doing -- and they're totally irresponsible. That's my claim, and it's going to be repeated on the break in and out until the 2009 elections. And that rudeness, too - sorry President - that comes from different representatives here, who say that the Progress Party is against Oslopackak 3 - yes, then I could say the same about the climate communication and the reconciliation there. So the same parties voted against reducing the charge on hybrid cars, they voted against building modern, efficient and safe environmentally friendly roads, they voted against streamlining and optimising today's rail network, they voted against moving freight from road to road and keel, they voted against stimulating more efficient collective provision in the population cities. I could also argue that way, but I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2055	Norway has never been richer, and Norway has never been better able to solve the problems we have, including: worn-out transport networks and including our road network. In the Question Time on Wednesday, 12 March 2008, I had a question about what the Minister of Transport thought about the new asphalt track at Norsk Trafiksenter in Hedmark, which they are now building. As I said, it's brand new. But in order to get the most credible path, this mass of wheel tracks wear and uneven road cover, and otherwise becomes so like a hole, worn and ordinary road we motorists experience every day. I think this tells us a lot about how everyday life in the districts is, and of course also in cities and towns. Today we have a proposal on how we can solve any of this, but who pays? Yes, we drivers - if we do not pay enough from the day we buy a car, precisely in the form of taxes and charges. Many families in the districts, such as the U.S. in Hedmark, there must be two cars in order to meet all the challenges a normal family faces with the daily transport needs. Very many of these cars are somewhat older. The owners of these have just received one or more payment giros of NOK 3090 in the annual fee to drive on bad roads where the bite can go - something we read about in a newspaper a few days ago. In total, Norway's drivers add billions of dollars, and if all of these had been used to repair our road network, tolls would not have been necessary. Or let me say it like this: these are challenges where the state itself has to pay. In addition, tolls are also a heavy burden on the transport of goods, which in turn is a burden on users. That's why the goods are getting more expensive, and most people get even more money. This transport of goods is also the largest in districts. That's why tolls are totally something we're not supposed to have. Norway’s economy suggests that this is not necessary either. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2066	Like the Per Sandberg representative, I also think that this debate is starting to take a strange direction. I could not fail to hear the comments of the representative Rudihagen, where he says that the Progress Party has an unlimited use of money. We have a Sarepta jar that we can kind of draw across the country from, without any constraints. There must be reason to remind the Storting that the state economy is running with a staggering profit. We are going in the current year with around 400 billion dollars in surplus on the state budget. The oil fund is NOK 2 000 billion. By 2030, the oil fund will be NOK 10,000 billion, and then we will not think about future generations when it comes to investing in the most important thing we have, infrastructure. I think that's quite incomprehensible to most people, perhaps not to some representatives in this room, but it's incomprehensible out there. And then the representative André Oktay Dahl comes and says that modesty is a virtue in this matter. So he has to say that the task of local politicians is to be modest. Yes, if you were to follow that principle, you might have suggested 100 pst. toll financing of Oslopaket3. The fact is, and I realize that the Right does not dare admit, that the Right has been tricked around. The right has been tricked around in the preparation of Oslopackakt 3, but not least in the context of the climate agreement. Because once the climate agreement was adopted, it didn't take long to start discussing what the content of the climate agreement really was about. It is quite obvious that the socialist parties are thinking of bringing higher taxes, road pricing, etc. Some have to limit what is the responsibility of the state and what is a private responsibility. It is regrettable that the Right has lost some of its old ideology -- to set limits on what is a public responsibility, and what is a private responsibility. I also see that many representatives from other parts of the country are very positive about the content of Oslopackak 3. It is quite obvious, with the limited appropriations for transport that the majority here have, that the more toll you have in Oslo and Akershus, the more they get for investment in their own area. So here's a lot of people who have different agendas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2077	Not everyone in this room is as conspiratory as the previous speaker. There are also well more people in this room who do not go as far in characterising their colleagues as the representative Hoksrud does. We're going to have to lay that down another time. But to a part of his post: he claims that the majority in this room, today proud and happy to present an important package to Oslo and Akershus, is in charge of forcing solutions down on people's heads, and also forcing other climate solutions. Then I just have to refer the representative of Hoksrud to the majority that has written in his remark, a majority that goes all the way from SV to Right. There's a whole bunch of things about climate, that you're happy with the Storting climate settlement. And if the package does not have a positive impact on the climate, the majority believe that the package - after an assessment - should be adjusted. Then comes the sentence that Hoksrud's representative forgot: «A clear prerequisite for this is agreement between the parties.» I explained earlier, in the change of lines, that the parties in this context are understanding the parties in Oslo and Akershus who have signed this agreement and who have applied for the implementation of the package. As I said, I am pleased that we are now getting to this package. I am pleased that we have a government and a Minister for Transport who takes responsibility, and I am glad that we have a big deal that takes responsibility. Because it's taking responsibility to vote for solutions and come up with solutions that are important to people and that get something to say for people's lives. What is not to take responsibility is to ride principles, be clean and rank and always be able to claim that you have the right and are the best - but then you don't get anything. I thought one of the important reasons why people chose the Storing and put on lists around the counties and municipalities was that they wanted to make a difference in people's lives, not that they wanted to stand on the pulpit and be right. That is why, once again, I would just like to congratulate the broad majority in this Chamber on the fact that today we are making a very important decision that will get a lot to say and be happy for many of the people - probably the most - in Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2093	Responsibility is to take responsibility. Responsibility is not to force others to carry out or finance the tasks for which they are responsible. That's why today's decision is irresponsible. I've been in politics for a few years. I have made choices under some choices. When I have done so, I have done so because I have given a promise and a guarantee to my voters. And I'm holding on to that. I do that today, and I have done that in all the debates on toll usage. The fact that other representatives, including Wickholm and others, make choices about promises and guarantees to the voters, thereby being elected and then doing the opposite of what the voters had imagined, is immoral. I do not stand for election because I am going to sit on the Stortinget and make a settlement in all political areas. In addition, if one had really been interested, if one had had political will, the representative Blackevik there showed the economic situation in which this country is. It's not like the representative Rudihagen, the representative Sahl and others say, that the Progress Party has a bigger and fatter money book. All representatives and parties have the same financial book in this case. The question is just how to prioritize the content of the money book. The priority of the Progress Party is to take responsibility and ensure that modern, efficient and environmentally friendly infrastructure is provided by using some of the contents of the Money Book, not by punishing the rest of the population. If you had really been interested in doing something about public transport -- I come with a little heartache in the end -- we've all forgotten something, and that's the sea. Why haven't we included the boats that go in the Oslo soil, in public transport, which would probably have been a really big intervention in terms of the environment and the climate - if you're worried about it - in terms of reducing traffic around Oslo? There the Progress Party has made a roar, and there's the rest of the Storting made a roar. But the Progress Party promises that we'll come back to it, and then we'll probably be called unprofessional again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2102	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2105	I see that the Council of State has so far not signed up for a new post. But I could imagine challenging the Council of State on one point, and that is that in this debate, representatives from all the government parties and the Left have expressed a positive opinion on the use of the instrument of road pricing. It is thought that this is a good instrument in the policy on transport, and it is believed that it will also be a good solution in the climate. The representative Sundsbø from the Senterpartiet, the State Council's own party, said that the environmental effects of Oslopak 3 and the various proposals coming to the harvest had to be assessed in this respect. Then I could imagine asking the Council of State, when we first have her here in the Chamber, if she could come up here on the pulpit and guarantee that there will be no proposals from the sitting government regarding road pricing in connection with Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2112	I didn't intend to prolong the debate, but when I'm directly challenged, I have to answer the questions that are coming. The current professional review made by KS 1 will provide very important information for the handling to be done when submitting phase 2 to the Stortinget. In this context, one will of course also look at the effects of Oslopack3 on climate, traffic management, emergence, etc. in this great, young people area. The government has said very clearly that we are not going to make proposals about the rush time charge - dear children have many names - road pricing, cow pricing. It is an initiative that must be taken locally. Of course, this will also apply to Oslopackakt3, but there may be other things that we can discuss with the local parties to the settlement. I have also said on many occasions that I have great respect for the agreement that has been concluded, from the farthest left to the farthest right in Oslo and Akershus. I thought there should be heavy reasons if one should enter and do something that put the conciliation in jeopardy. But that doesn't mean that one can't discuss different suggestions. We have had a very good dialogue with Oslo and Akershus in this process. It has not always been easy to find the way to where we are today, but it has been constructive and good dialogue. We have had many meetings in my office on this matter. I want to pay tribute to the politicians in Oslo and Akershus for the hold they have shown, the fact that one stands firm on what one has gathered about, and the fact that one stands straight on a package, which of course places some taxes on people, but which at the other end will give people a better everyday life, both smaller local emissions - it puts up the package - and more collective effort, a simpler everyday life for people in an area where cows grow and grow. Clearly, it is also worth a price. I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party in Oslo, which stands straight on what they are involved in when it comes to toll financing. I wanted to believe that the Progress Party ended with double accounting, but that they had a line in the party that one could stick to, either a talker with local or central politicians in the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2121	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2124	It became absolutely necessary to take the floor, because now the Council of State will soon have to document the double entry of the Progress Party. And then the Council of State has to decide whether it's the Grand Government that has authority, or whether it's the City Council in Oslo that has authority. If there's someone doing double accounting here, it's actually the ones behind Oslopackak 3. The second thing I'd like to say is clear and clear in the article from the Council of State here now. With regard to the odds on that, I have not wondered at all how much money is being spent on the fact that at some point the sitting government will have to take initiative with the parties and press them in the same way as they did with regard to the reward scheme, to introduce road pricing or rush time charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2131	In most political matters with significance for the development of this country, they clarify their positions, so that the parties a meeting are recognizable as meeting one of them in the local government, county council, city council or the city council. What surprises me when it comes to toll financing and the Progress Party - and I have sometimes mentioned it to my friends in the press - is how easy it is to get away from being able to stand straight for tolls locally, but stand as straight here and be against it on a case-by-case basis. There are not many parallels to this in other issues of significant importance in Norwegian policy, and that is what I meant by ‘double bookkeeping’. Let me give you an example. A short time ago, I received a request from a representative from the Progress Party in More and Romesdal with a request for toll collection to finance a road there. When I hear that the leading politicians in the same party -- with their tollstyles -- stand here today and say, "I wonder what the party actually stands for in this matter." I have to be allowed to express that in a short comment. Otherwise, we have not pushed Oslo and Akershus into anything. It's quite the opposite, it's the people who have been putting constructive pressure on us to get things done as quickly as possible, so that they could start collecting tolls. And there is an important player in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2143	There's been another drawing on the list of speakers. The President allows himself to point out that the President intends to make a proposal later, if necessary, for this meeting to be extended until the current map is completed, even if it is after 1 p.m. 16:00. As a result of a very important open hearing, which will begin at 9.00 p.m. 16.15, all representatives should be aware that it will be proposed to extend the meeting until the current map has been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2148	This debate might have ended before, if the Progress Party had stopped adding other positions or opinions that they do not have at all. It is, in the opinion of the undersigned, a rather inconceivable debate. I could, for example, This is also done by saying that nothing else can be read out of the contributions of the representative Sandberg when he talks about irresponsibility, than that of the Oslo Progress Party and the representatives of the Progress Party there are irresponsible politicians - politicians who have gone to elections on the Progress Party programme that they should not have toll finance unless alternative driving routes exist. Then I can see nothing but that these are very irresponsible politicians. It is in this case only the Progress Party in this Chamber who likes their own partymates. I think that the rest of us in the Chamber think it's very responsible politicians who take responsibility on behalf of the city's population for the transport challenges in Oslo. I also react to the interpretation of the Council of State in the way you do. When I hear the Council of State, I hear a Council of State that is committed to finding solutions with the parties, but at the same time is so honest that she says that you face some challenges, and that she has no other intention than to resolve them in close cooperation with the parties who have sought to introduce this package. Double accounting is, of course, having two points of view at once. This is when the Progress Party is trying to win voters on a national basis by being against tolls and trying to win voters on a local level by claiming that you are in favour of Oslopackage 3 and by advertising all the good actions that will be important to the city's population. I would like the Progress Party to do what the Council of State also called for, and as I have done with my partymates in Oslo, namely to have close and close dialogue with them to ensure that we can present the same point of view, and to ensure that the proposals I am promoting here, and the things I am dealing with on behalf of my party, also happen on behalf of my party representatives in Oslo and in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2161	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2164	It was this with double accounting. I believe that the electorate of the Progress Party is aware of two things: that toll financing is adopted here in the Grand Duchy, as we are doing today, against our votes, and that the Progress Party has alternatives to toll financing, as we have shown today. On the other hand, there are others who need to explain double accounting. Those who have gone to the elections and believed that the Senter Party was against the increasing use of tolls have taken a sad mistake, and they perceive it that the Senter Party in government is actively using tolls to finance the government's tasks. It seems the Progress Party is running double bookkeeping. We distance ourselves from it, and at the same time we show that there are financial tools that can be used and that make the use of toll financing really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2171	I wasn't going to take the word, but after the Council of State said it, I felt a certain need for it. The councils suggested that it was difficult to know what the Progress Party meant locally, what was meant by the Stortinget, and what was actually done. Then I want to read from the game program to the Center Party. I also used to have a line for a representative from the Center Party. In fact, the programme of the Centre Party for the period 2005-2009 states: ‘The development of roads is a public task. The Party considers that the financing of new road projects should be carried out over public budgets and is sceptical of a trend towards an increasing number of toll projects. Today, an excessive share of transport investment is based on user financing. Toll projects may be a complement where local initiatives are taken to this end. Geographically defined petrol charge may be another option.’ It says "supplement". So in this room, the Senter Party has voted 16 times earlier for toll projects with an average toll ratio of over 70 pst. Today, the Central Party is voting for the 17th toll project, where the state share is NOK 12 billion and the car driver-funded share is over NOK 40 billion. Then it's hard to recognize the Center Party. I note that in an important area where it is actually guaranteed to the electorate, before the elections, that the Central Party will be opposed to tolls in the period 2005-2009, unless it is a supplement. So here it is the main source of funding. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. It might be interesting to know how many places in the country the Central Party locally have also voted against their program. In the Central Party locally -- at least pretty much every time I talk to central party politicians around who are in favour of this -- one admits that this is state extortion and nothing else. If you had any opportunity, you would have voted against it. The central party, which sits in government and has the Minister of Transport, has the opportunity to ensure that the projects come with state funding, and then this coercion of its own politicians is avoided locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2189	I'm not in a government at the Center Party program. In fact, I believed that Hoksrud was so outstanding as a staging representative that he knew it. I'm in charge of the Soria Moria statement and the deal that lies there. It says nothing about tolls, but it says we should bet on transportation. It does the council, it does the Center Party, and it does the Government. I am very sincere about what we have done in this area during this period, not least because we have increased the roadside path by NOK 1.5 billion, which is a permanent and important increase in the frame. The centre party is aware locally and centrally that we are drivers for more means of transportation. We are recognizable locally and centrally, both in the field of trade and in other areas, so that we open up to fissures where all bidegregs, and we have absolutely one well-discussed situation in this area. I still have a right to a central party representative - and I have very good contact out at the local and regional level - who says that we are pushing blackmail. There is an expression entered by the Progress Party. It has nothing to do with reality. Local initiatives are initiated locally. I still have the benefit of going out and saying that one has to go to the step of toll financing. But I've seen it in the media that the representative Sandberg did in Trøndelag. He told his people in Fosen that they should get up the toll project quickly, so that not all means of transport would go to the West - if I don't remember completely wrong. I had with me that quote and cut out earlier in Stortinget. It is highly voluntary to bet on tolls or if one wants to put in line for government funds. The reason for a local toll, however, is that one sees the benefits of having the projects carried out much more quickly, and thus sees the benefit of the community through better roads. So this council and this government are constantly working to find more means of transport within a responsible economic framework, which means that all those who have now taken up difficult loans and established themselves, not least the younger part of the population, should not be pushed from house to home through an interest rate that goes on the roof, which will have unlikely adverse consequences for individuals, but not least for the industry along our coast, on which we depend for well-being into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2523]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2215	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2224	Now I'm going to try to turn the mood around here. It is a pleasure for me, on behalf of the members of the Committee, to make a proposal for a decision - and it should be a responsible decision - to ensure that all schoolchildren are given a seat on the school bus. It is an important political task to give young people a safe journey to and from school. Fortunately, there have been very few serious accidents with school buses in Norway, but if an accident occurs first with a school bus, almost a whole generation in our towns is at risk. Bus is initially a safe means of transport. Drivers are competent and responsible, and therefore there are very few serious accidents involving school buses. With today's decision, the school kiss can be even safer. There is little doubt that those on the bus are more at risk in the event of any accident. The Council of State has taken the longest initiative in investigations into changing the practice of standing places in school buses. I will commend the Council of State for its commitment to safe school transport, both before and after the promotion of this proposal. When the investigations are available, hopefully during the spring, the Ministry will start work to get better practice on the safety of schoolchildren on buses. Then what's first on the agenda is everyone's seat. When these praiseworthy words to the Council of State are said, I will also do something as unusual as boasting a bit of the Advance Party. They have promoted this matter in a real way. And when they--I'd almost said for once--promote a case with the best intentions, I'd brag a little. Now it's the government parties that have promoted the majority proposal in the committee, and I would have liked to see that we could have an overall committee and a total increase behind the decision. However, the Progress Party has been committed to removing the parking spaces on the school buses only by amending the Road Traffic Act, and that is not as safe for the majority. There are probably several roads leading to the goal in this case. Some state politicians will probably think about money when we reach this decision. To them I would say that the seating is not at all a costly affair. The Nord-Trøndelag has introduced seats for schoolchildren on buses for less than 500000 kroner per year. years. Even though it is more expensive in some states, I will allow myself to say that it is the safety of our kids well worth it. I want to commend Nordland and Nord-Trøndelagen county councils for having imposed requirements on seating places without state regulations, and thus doing a lot to prevent accidents. Initiatives have also been taken in other counties to lead to seating positions for all. The Committee believes that it is important that all young people, irrespective of the country in which they grow up, should be able to travel safely to and from school. That is why we are asking the Government today to make the assessments that are needed to change the practices of the remaining states. To avoid overstressing expectations, our decision mainly involves school buses in a more traditional sense. Urban buses are excluded because there is much lower speed and less risk in urban traffic and because these buses are adapted to many parking spaces. Urban buses are also not subject to seat belt requirements. We present the ministry with a challenge in terms of school bus practices or regulations that also run as a regular bus route. It is difficult to know how many young people are coming on the school route from Sfulllrya to Churchenär, for example. With this decision, we can give our kids a slightly safer transport to and from school, and that must be the most important thing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2250	It was nice to be praised by the representative Fallen for the proposal of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, I am not quite so optimistic when I read the proposal from the majority versus the proposal from the minority. All parties say that they want to ensure that all children are safe and sound in school. This has been said every time this matter has been dealt with, and now it has been dealt with for the third time. Every time it has been established that this is something all the parties want, but it turns out that it is far from the good wishes and the celebrations to concrete action. This is very regrettable and contributes to people losing faith and respect for politicians, as one thing is said but done differently. Today we feel that this is the same thing that happens again. The majority do not want to back up on the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party's proposal to ask the Government to: ‘promoting the necessary proposals for amendments to the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the transport of school children and young people by school bus’. Furthermore, the proposal assumes that the increased costs incurred by the county councils are incorporated into the State budget. The background is that one has tried to get the county councils to do this. There have been good intentions every time, but you can see that the county councils do not see that they have room for it. The reason is often that this is not a legal task. When it is not legal for all children to have the right to a seating position, this results in a failure to do so in the counties that so far have not done so. The fact that the majority now claim that they cannot support the proposal is due to the fact that they are waiting for an investigation by SINTEF to be completed during April, an investigation that it actually took a year to start after previous examination. During the committee consultation, both the Safety Traffic and the Children’s Ombudsman were quite clear that there was no need to wait for a new investigation, because the answer was clear: this should only be done. Children and young people transported standing on crowded buses do not have time to wait. Waiting may lead to a serious accident, which may be too late. Already today it is approx. 40 accidents related to school transport per year. Fortunately, so far there have been only minor accidents without major personal injury. But what happens if there's a serious accident? Then I am sure that several of the representatives who will vote against the proposal today will come on the road and demand that all children and young people have a seat to sit on during school transport, in order to ensure safe and good school transport for children and young people. We saw this, among other things. after the accident in Verdal, where questions and requirements for seat belts on buses came up too fully. There were several representatives from the government parties out here and said they would assess a seat belt on the bus. Unfortunately, the majority today will also vote against a proposal to ask the Government to actually consider simply introducing a transitional mechanism in which positive instruments are being put in place, such as: looking at reducing charges, etc., to replace old buses without seatbelts with new buses with seatbelts. This clearly shows that, on the part of the majority, there are great words and fine festivities, but unfortunately little action. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. I hope that the majority also believes that it is important to ensure that all children immediately get a safe and safe school path, with a seat to sit on and in the near future also a belt to wear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2276	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. The regulatory period is over in a moment and the President will, due to the consultation to be started by the Control and Constitutional Committee, at noon. 16.15, suggest that Storting’s meetings continue until the current map is completed. In this respect, the President will also propose that the Storting should derogate from the provisions of the sixth paragraph of Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the Stortingen that there is no possibility of holding an open hearing when there is a meeting in the Stortingen or its departments, in order to enable the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to start its hearing on the basis of the plan, at 5 p.m. 16,15. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Due to the hearing of the Committee of Supervisors and Constitutional Affairs, it will start at 1 p.m. 16.15, there is a need to make a change in the Storting Week programme. This is the meeting of Odelstinget, which is scheduled for today after the Stortinges meeting. The President will propose that this meeting be cancelled. The case listed on the map of Odelsting will be dealt with at the meeting of Odelsting on 1 April. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2287	I don't know if it's the debate in the previous case, which got a little hot, which makes the Progress Party take a little on the way to the post here. In fact, I believe that the Progress Party has reason to be satisfied today. They have promoted a Document No. 8-proposals that they've got a large part of the Stortinget on - and that's actually not everyday food. The majority have said that there is a reason to wait for the investigation that comes from the department, and then we'll see what the next step is. For the Right, this is a very important matter. In fact, in the current financial year, we've invested 100 million. kr extra in the reward scheme just earmarked safe school roads. I think, as the representative Hoksrud, that having a safe school route and school transport for our children is taking us all. This applies to both the school roads, the way the bus stops are designed, and the kids have a seat, so they're safe. Then there are also people who are concerned that there should be a seat belt directive. I'm kind of waiting for that. Fortunately, there are few accidents, and we should be very happy about that. I think it's because we have pretty much responsible drivers and good drivers on our school buses. But it's up to us to create an infrastructure where the bus stops, which makes it safe and sound. So there's a point that the Right has raised in this case, that I want to raise here. It's this with the uniformation of the buses. In other countries, there are a number of driers on this. You have a clear sign that the bus has many small children. At the earliest, you will probably go to the United States, where there is also a law of your own relating to the passage of a school bus. It's actually so that you can't pass a school bus. We have a vehicle regulation that regulates this in Norway. There are a lot of crimes to see, so we've suggested that we should look into whether the regulation is being complied with. Preferably, this should be tightened up so that there is clear uniformation of the buses. I also think that it will help to deal with road accidents, and that extra care is shown when passing a bus full of schoolchildren who have stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2303	Upon request, I will cut down significantly on a prepared, spirited post. I would like to stress immediately that the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for the vote when the minority proposals we are in favour of have fallen, so that it is ready for the vote. In Norway, we have a duty to go to school. The Christian People's Party believes that this duty must be followed by a right to safety at school. This is a matter that the Christian People's Party has been committed to over a long period of time, a matter we have spent time investigating and discussing, but with which we have not come any further. We know that this leads to, in situations where students need a bus, that we are in danger of sending them out on the road with a fuse that we from Stortinget's side cannot be familiar with. We believe that we have now discussed this long enough. Now it has to be done. We're aware that there's a SINTEF report on the way, and we're probably going to get some good advice there, but we can't believe that that report will conclude with anything other than that schoolchildren should have a seat on the bus, and that schoolchildren should have a seat belt -- as you use when tourists are out driving. The only exception to the Christian People's Party is the exemption for city buses. Obviously, you need a certain economy at the bottom to get this done. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees with the proposal that the State should consider whether or not a transitional arrangement can be used to provide seat belts in the buses. We see that there are different arrangements from state to state. We are now dependent on quickly putting in place a scheme that provides for a minimum level of school bus coverage for children. In the case of seating for all children, the Christian People's Party believes that it must be a matter of course. Necessary legislative changes must be made soon. This, of course, has a cost side, as I have already said. It should, at my discretion, be with the State and take responsibility for it, and the expenditure should be incorporated into the State budget. We haven't said anything about the time, but we expect this case now to get an emergency notice, so we don't go into new years without our schoolchildren being secured by bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2314	The centre party is pleased with the broad commitment to ensuring the transport of school elephants. For this reason, I am also pleased that the Council of State has started to update the investigations carried out by Sintef in 1998. When the report ‘Security related to the transport of school children by bus’ has been submitted to the Ministry of Transport, it is time for the Government to assess whether the introduction of a mandatory seat for children in school pillows is possible. Preventive work is important, and I want to pay tribute to the states that have seen this on the agenda and have done something about it. The objective of achieving the zero vision, of reducing the number of injuries and killings in traffic, is important. The centre batch will make sure that there are several actions that can then be used. It's a fact that e.g. building even more roads, forcing our roads to race, and forcing more people to go to school, could lead to a reduction in the number of road damage and killings in traffic. It is therefore very positive that our government is increasing the budget for these purposes. In 2008, there will be a total of 590 million. DKK to measures for walking and sickening countries, where 340 million. kr is state-owned. That's an increase of about 80 million. kr, or 34 pst. since 2007. In addition, it will be worth about 520 million. kr. for racial protection measures and 520 million. for specific road safety measures. The prevention aspect has several aspects in it as well as reducing the number of accidents. Every person who goes/cycles to school has a positive health benefit in addition to dropping bus transport. So it's still so that not everyone can, or has the possibility to, go or ride to school, but will be dependent on school pillows with bus due to long distances from home to school. Therefore, it is important to ensure that several different measures are taken. All children, regardless of where they come from, should be able to travel safely to school. A contribution to increasing road safety is to mark the buses in school transport and that drivers are aware of the user group they are running. The driving order sets a specific requirement for the marking of the school buses. The buses must have signs on the front and back of the bus according to this requirement, telling you that there is a bus in the school area. The center part works for the safest possible schoolway for everyone, and we will have assessed whether it is possible to impose the requirement for a seat for schoolchildren in a school pillow with a bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2328	I shall be very brief - just one clarification: the left supports in this matter proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. This Document No The 8 proposal has been promoted during the previous period in the Church, Education and Research Committee. The left supported it there, and it is therefore natural that we also support it here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2335	I am pleased with any initiative that could lead to greater safety for road users, and especially where it could lead to a lower risk for those who cannot influence the choice of means of transport or the protection in it. I therefore agree with the Committee's comment that, regardless of which children they grow up in, all children should be able to travel as safely as possible to the school. The debate on how we can, and should, secure the children of the school, has been going on for a long time. I am pleased that today there are few accidents related to personal injuries in the transportation of children by bus, but it is nevertheless of concern to the uncertain nature of this group of road users, and what we are afraid of will happen, that it is now important to obtain enough undeniable facts in order to be able to take a final position on the need for specific measures for this group of road users, in addition to the requirements for the protection provided by the current legislation. In October 2007, the Ministry concluded an agreement with SINTEF to deal with ‘Safety related to the transport of school children by bus’. The purpose of the mission has been to monitor the provision of county councils within the school system by carrying out risk and exclusion analyses related to the use of standing space, disembarkation and search, material requirements and the use of safety belts and equipment. For me, it has been important to have a good basis to work out before action is taken. Sintef will close his report and present it to me in April. I am very pleased today that it is, so to speak, an almost co-consultant committee that suggests that the possibility of imposing a ban on children's sitting places in a school school with a bus should be considered. The proposal says that the Stortinget has a broad cross-political involvement in the matter, while it is open enough for me to assess what laws and regulations need to be changed in order to ensure that we can ensure a well in a school bus in the best possible way. At the same time, I want to give honey to the Nordic countries and to the Northern Trøndelag county councils, who have gone on their way and already gave all the elementary schools with skyscrapers right to the seat of the school trains. It considers that it does not always have to centralise laws and regulations in place to implement good and correct measures. The county councils are responsible for the school shower in their counties. I really appreciate that local politicians are taking the lead and showing the way. Earlier in my letter to the Committee, I have done some good for the main features of the legislation when it comes to requirements for the installation and use of safety belts on buses. I have considered that the requirements for retrofitting safety belts will have significant costs and technical challenges, and that it is uncertain whether there is capacity for such short-term installation. I also point to specific challenges related to separating school pillows from other bus services, and that different solutions can be envisaged here, where different legislation, rights arrangements and agreements are used as tools. In spite of the major challenges facing both the economy, the practical and the legal solutions, I am positive that the work that has now started too fully should provide the best possible protection for those who use buses in a school shed, and that the risk of accidents with injuries in this transport will thus be as small as possible. I have therefore made clear that I am positive in assessing the introduction of a requirement that there should be a safety belt available to all seated passengers in Class 2 and 3 buses, regardless of when the vehicle is registered. This assessment will, of course, be carried out in cooperation with the bus industry. There is a great need for distribution both when it comes to the need to implement measures in this area as a whole and when it comes to what measures may be feasible. I want to make sure that the necessary distributions are carried out, and then make proposals for action. I would like to stress once again that I am very pleased that a closely consensual committee has seen the need to give enough time to make a thorough review, and that Sintef's report will be a natural start to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2359	There have been many fine words in this matter, but I think there is little action. It is sad that children should not be assessed higher than what we have heard in many of the speeches today. That's the third time this case is up. I remember the first time -- and that's quite many years ago. I would like to ask the Council of State, when she says she will consider the possibilities of ordering child seating: what does the Council of State ‘assess’ this? She's got a pretty high cigarette lead on zero vision for killed and injured, and I think that's a very nice idea. But how far will she go in this assessment of child safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2366	Except that the government doesn't smoke cigarettes, it's probably right that I claim zero vision with a lot of weight. And as I said in my post, I'm also happy that we in this area are actually pretty close to him in general. How far I'm going to secure children's seats, and the way we're going to do it, I'm going to have to come back. The size has given a very clear job, and then I will come back to Stortinget with a response to that assignment. That's exactly what I'm going to do, and I need to have a dialogue with the industry to see how we can easily do this. It is such that when one sits and is to be responsible for the implementation, one must have a workable configuration. I'm going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2373	The Council’s letter of reply states that school kissing is part of the close collective offer in a number of counties and that the right to a seat for school children requires a general capacity increase in the offer. The Bondevik II Government introduced a low rate of VAT on public travel and the reward scheme for public transport. These are measures that have contributed more than 600 million. kr to public transport, which has provided several seats for both school children and the elderly. Is the Council of State concerned about increasing the number of public transport seats and what measures does the current government intend to take to increase public transport capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2382	It is the county councils that are responsible for public transport. This government has provided the municipal sector with more than 20 billion kroner. In contrast to the previous government, which had cut and scarce frames, municipalities have now been given the opportunity to prioritize public transport. The reward scheme is, with respect to reporting, almost nothing to count against the large sums spent on public transport in Oslo, in other cities and beyond throughout the country. This will require a framework in the local economy that provides space for action in order to give priority to transport and public transport. That's what this government is investing in, and we also trust that the frames will be used for the benefit of the inhabitants in both this and other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2387	To be sure, as this case is a recurring issue where we have not come closer to the sinful solution, I would like the Council of State to confirm that she sees the need, and that it is now about finishing a solution - a solution that involves implementing a seating arrangement. The Council of State has referred to two county councils which have the right to a seat on school trips. She boasts of these two states. This must mean that the Council of State considers it necessary. Now what we're going to wait for, and hopefully not too long, is a matter where you come up with a plan and a system where there's a requirement for a seat on school trips. I would like the Council of State to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2399	The council can confirm that it will follow up the Stortinget's clear instructions and come back to Stortinget with a case about this. Yes, I commend the county councils that have seen and show way in this area. It is the county councils that are responsible, as I have also said earlier here in the Storting. Then I expect them to take the responsibility seriously and ensure that the school students have a seat. That, of course, should be the case. I have therefore refused to go in and make changes to the promises to get this done. I had hoped that one would do it without it. But I'm now taking the Storting saying clear summons to knowing. I'll get the report from SINTEF, and I'll take this seriously. I think it should be obvious that the children have a safe transport to the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2411	Several have not asked for the word for a line. How to deal with matters on today's map
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2418	Before the next speaker is given the floor, the President will propose that the first paragraph of Section 43 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure derogate from the provision that matters that have been dealt with are put to the vote at the end of today’s sitting. The President proposes that voting on the matters that have been dealt with today be postponed until shortly after the start of the meeting tomorrow morning. This is because there are problems with the replacement of members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the EEA, who have already been authorised to start a hearing, which is now under way. They may not interrupt the hearing by going back and forth. That is why, on the President's proposal, voting will be postponed until tomorrow. - It is deemed to have been adopted. It must also be pointed out that the Lamentations Meeting will be held immediately after the Storting meeting has been concluded. - Then we will continue the debate on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2431	I have been following this case for several years, first as a county politician in Eastfold, where we were presented with proposals in 2004. All the other parties rejected the proposal that school bus transport was the responsibility of the county. In 2006, the proposal was re-signed with a more comprehensive justification. A unanimous education committee asked the Government to consider the need for changes and clarifications in the Road Traffic Act, possibly a new regulation to the Training Act to ensure that students have a sound school kiss. The case was examined on 24 October 2006. On several occasions afterwards, questions have been asked to both the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Transport about the extent to which they have responded to the request. The majority was assured that the two departments were in dialogue, and that the matter was followed up. Then we experience that it is a whole year before the Ministry of Transport concludes an agreement with SINTEF to investigate the need. With all due respect, investigations, we've had enough of them. Kristin Clemet got Nordic research to investigate school kissing. We have investigations that show that most accidents occur in connection with the boarding and disembarkation of the school bus. It was this Council of State Djupedal referred to in 2006 when he stated in a somewhat clumsy way that there was no problem with school bus transport, because - as he said - only 40 children were injured per. years. I have no faith that SINTEF will find any other numbers. Therefore, this investigation will not serve anything other than that the government parties can buy time and push the problem in front of them. This matter is about taking children and young people's security seriously and being the leader was. Too often we hear people ask themselves, ‘ Should there be a serious accident before the responsible take action? ’ Another funny coincidence - or perhaps it was not random - is that the agreement with SINTEF on an investigation was concluded while we got the tragic bus accident in Verdal where 44 people were involved. Three died and 26 were sent to the hospital. These were retired on the road, and everyone had a seat. The problem was that the bus was from 1993, built six years before the belt command came. The accident happened at 8 a.m. on a Saturday. It might as well have happened on a day-to-day? Is there anyone who dares think about how it could have gone if this had been a school bus full of schoolchildren who might also have been in the middle? Storing members who were on the Transport Committee in the previous period, and who were on the bus braking test on Rudskogen, know that what had happened had been that several children had been thrown out as projectiles through the windscreen on the bus. The number of deaths and accidents would probably have been much higher than that in Verdal. In this case, I have heard someone say that nothing happens until the politicians themselves get hit and experience an accident. In my work life in connection with emergency services in hospitals, I have received many traffic victims. I can assure you that there is something that burns into the Internet, it is when you see young children who are killed, mutilated or mutilated in a traffic accident. There's something I don't care about anyone. In this area, I also thought it was possible to bring the rest of the political establishment -- but then one. I noticed that prominent transport politicians from both the SV and the Workers' Party appeared on television after the bus accident in Verdal. They put their faces in serious folds and expressed that they would do everything in their power to prevent such a thing from happening again. Today they have the occasion, and we're waiting in excitement to see if they stand for what they're saying. Do they mean anything about the vision of zero killed and zero permanently injured, or are they just empty words? Then, finally, an explanation of vote. If, against the assumption, the proposal of the Progress Party is not adopted, we will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2457	The President has noted this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2460	Previous speeches stood on this pulpit and were very concerned because nothing had been done. I showed in my main post that Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland County Municipalitys have actually imposed a seat order for school children without any obligation. They introduced this, and as county politicians, Gåsvatn might have introduced it in his country. There must be someone who has taken too much Møller's tran in this hall. I thought the most important thing about politics was to get things settled and things done. Obviously not all politicians are so concerned about -- they might be more concerned with self-marking! I tried in my post to praise the proposers, to support an important case for all schoolchildren, who are now getting a safer school route. But it was completely of little use--to put it straight out. I've learned in life's long school that attack is the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2469	At the very end of the meeting, only a brief follow-up to the Council of State after the exchange of views. What is important is that we have a common regulatory framework and a common framework for all schoolchildren throughout Norway, regardless of where they live and in which country they are transported. Of course, the counties are responsible for this. Regardless of where they live, they shall ensure that they are transported safely. I think we'll do the best we can if we have a common law and a common economic framework that makes this possible. We hope that we can get there as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2476	I got a brief visit from the representative Eirin Fallet. After Stortinget rejected the proposal from the Progress Party in 2004, we made state politicians a formidable job in Eastfold. If Eirin Faldet had read the case, it would come out there. But we didn't get to the finish line. There was cross-political agreement, but we were unable to reach goals, for economic reasons. That is why we asked to get this case back to Stortinget, so that we could look at it in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2524]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2500	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2517	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-13.ana.ud361e2623	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with §37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
