ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e35	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e44	The government works every day with an active business policy. It is now the case that the acquisition laws were repealed in 2002. Against this background, the Government Party stated through the Soria Moria Declaration that it would establish ‘a new and strengthened acquisition law within the framework of the EEA Agreement’. That doesn't mean that the so-called old acquisition laws should be reestablished and reintroduced. It has been established that the old acquisition law is not compatible with the EEA Agreement because it had been regarded as a restriction on the right of establishment and the right to move capital. The ministry has had many laps with ESA in this matter, and the government is working on the matter for months before she was presented. It was on this background that the government just before Christmas last year, Ot.prp. No 27, ‘Law on reporting obligations in the event of the closure of commercial activities’, or ‘conversion law’, in case of will. It is a law that, in my opinion, will promote conversion and dialogue through reporting obligations to the county. The law will cover all decommissioned enterprises with more than 30 added. It would have been discussed whether or not the borders would be increased by 30 or 50. Most hearing agencies thought that 30 would add or more would be the right point of entry. In this case, from previous experience, 300 messages will be sent to county municipalities each year. If the point of entry had been added 50, the number of messages would have become about 150 per year. It is also known that LO primarily had a desire to set the entry point to 10 added. Now, the rate of conversion into smaller enterprises is consistently higher than in larger enterprises, and usually such conversion requires little follow-up by public authorities. Furthermore, public registers show that about 1,500 enterprises would be covered by the new law in that case. Then it's not hard to imagine what kind of social costs, both administratively and financially for businesses and the public, it would have been. If you're very positive -- and that's me -- you might say that by this law, one creates a framework/action that can enable viable companies to move on. So a new statutory obligation to notify is introduced when companies are closed with more than 30 added. This means that owners are obliged to send a message to the county council, as a regional policy development actor, about planned decommissioning – not de-employment if the de-employment is not more than 90 pst. It shall be sent as soon as possible and no later than 30 days before the closure is completed. This means that any decision to close the enterprise cannot be taken before 30 days after the county has received the message. When the county council receives a message, it shall be convened for discussions between the company, the public, such as Innovation Norway, NAV, SIVA, etc., they shall add and potential investors, i.e. a meeting place where one can assess further operations, alternative operations, new owners or other conversion measures. In this way, an option shall be visible to alternatives to closure and thus avoid the undesirable consequences of closure, as far as possible. There will also be a legalisation in the work environment law of a discussion obligation with those added, with a view to possible takeover of the enterprise. This will apply to enterprises which are not covered by the main agreements, and is in that case a strengthening of their impact on the process. Through such a scheme, you can be sure that 'all stones' have been turned around to find either alternative solutions for further operations or to assess whether it is possible to establish another action. Mi experience is that many Norwegian companies both want and see the value of working on good solutions at company closure. Finally, I would like to add: the reporting obligation mechanism shall not interfere with the management right or the permanent operation of the owner or the entity. The obligation to notify shall also not apply to undertakings which are in a bankruptcy or chord phase. Many might wonder if it would not be possible to impose a sales obligation. I was in the tank myself, and it was a very important wish from my side. To say that it is not possible to achieve, as in that case it would be contrary to the EEA Agreement, as I mentioned earlier in the reference to the ‘old’ acquisition law. So I'll just bring a little kick to Right Torbjørn Hansen. He has now sent out a reading post around the whole country of Norway where he calls this a business ‘landing’. This is not a bow-landing, but a real belly-place from the Right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e70	It's a bit tempting to continue where the previous speaker left off, but I'll probably get into it along the way. In my post, I will essentially take the law on reporting obligations, as it is a unanimous committee that is behind point B, the proposal for a law on changes in mineral law. The background to the government bill is undoubtedly the history of Union in Skien during the 2005 election campaign. The government politicians then went to the Skien, and the promises were resolved. Those who went the longest at that time were the red-green parties, who are now in government. Those parties promised that with the introduction of a new and strengthened acquisition law and it in hand, they would prevent such closures in the future. Promiseing the country's inhabitants to introduce something they themselves didn't want to be allowed to do because of EEA legislation, probably the red-green parties gave the little thing to do to tilt the elections in their favor. Now is the time to deliver, but the belly pad should be searched for a long time. This is absolutely nothing like a new and stricter acquisition law, but rather a diluted version without real content. The final burial of the acquisition law is now made in the proposition, where it states: ‘Introducing a new acquisition law cannot be combined with Norwegian obligations under the EEA Agreement’. The only thing the new law provides for is to increase the financial and administrative burden on companies in transition or in a difficult economic situation. Well, what does the majority actually signal with the bill on reporting obligations that we are now dealing with? Well, the bill shows an inherent skepticism from the government parties towards business owners and a clear signal that they believe business owners are not concerned with the welfare and welfare of employees and communities. It's an attitude towards those who actually contribute to creating the welfare society that we all enjoy, from which I take a great distance. I believe that in today's legislation there are sufficient arrangements for good dialogue for the parties involved in closure threatened businesses, and I believe that business owners are conscious of their responsibilities for employees and communities. The vast majority of business owners cease their business because they have to, or because a restructuring is necessary. The proposal for a law on reporting obligations will be voted against in its entirety, because we believe that it is the general framework conditions that are important for maintaining jobs. If the Government is genuinely concerned with preventing closures, it should focus on a lower level of taxation, investment in infrastructure, simplification of forms, the energy situation and research and development. If the government is really busy keeping jobs, why does it not go in to reduce tax burden so that companies can invest more of their capital in construction, machinery and employees? Why does the Government not provide proper roads and rail services so that businesses can get their goods into the market? Why not take a skipper roof to eliminate the costs of handling the huge form field, costs that are particularly painful for small and medium-sized enterprises? And why can't the government help get real and real energy projects that can provide more and cheaper power for the industry in place? For when we talk about corner stone farms, we cannot avoid the fact that powerful industrial enterprises in many communities are an important supplier of jobs. At the same time, you might wonder why in one of the richest countries in the world, no more investment is made in research and development projects. Instead of doing something in these areas, it seems that it is as bureaucratic and costly as possible to shut down the company in a dignified way. This bill is, in effect, a declaration of failure towards the Government's industrial policy. Where the government fails, it seems that others will be assigned tasks to clean up. This law is unnecessary and only shows that the government does not realize that sometimes conversions are necessary. It is part of the necessary economic development and in many cases contributes to the release of land, capital and human resources to other and more profitable projects that are more forward-looking. There is therefore no need, in my view, to delay this process through new bureaucratic and costly impositions. This bill is about to sign an election campaign promise that cannot be met, and the Progress Party will therefore be voting against point A of the proposal, the Act on the obligation to notify in the event of the closure of industrial activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e101	The case rapporteur did not say much about the part of the setting that concerns changes in mineral legislation. Maybe he should have, because there's a joint committee behind the government's proposal. The only remark I have about this is that it's starting to rush for the government to put forward a new mineral law. Mineral industry is in strong development, and it deserves a more active industrial policy - in the positive sense of the word - than what we have seen from the Government during this period. It is difficult to comment on the conversion law without seeing it in the light of the election campaign that the Workers' Party led towards the autumn of 2005. Only the Workers' Party came to power, it was going to end company closures, we were going to have a new, active industrial policy and a majority government that would take care of ordinary workers and secure jobs. A glan number in this exercise of political seduction was the promise of new acquisitions. This part of the show was only surpassed by the promise of a new industrial power regime. Both parts were a seduction of Norwegian workers, whom we have barely seen in Norwegian politics. So the government parties were to reintroduce the acquisition law, even an enhanced one, and it was to be put in swings in cases where jobs were at risk of deflagration or purchase. A few weeks before the 2005 elections, Jens Stoltenberg stood in front of thousands of fronts on a mass show for Norwegian Forest Union. The Prime Minister’s candidate was strong and clear and stated that the Union would be the start of a new industrial policy. Well, now the air's out of that balloon. Of course, the old acquisition law is not being reintroduced. On the contrary, the Government parties today recognise what they have known all along, namely that a new acquisition law is not compatible with the EEA Agreement. That recognition of the content and obligations of the EEA Agreement is strange. Nothing has changed since 2005, neither as regards the content of the EEA Agreement nor the participation of Norway in it. Nor is anything new in terms of acquisition law or industrial power contracts. Therefore, it is quite obvious to those who have followed up on these matters over time that these promises were made against better knowledge in the 2005 election campaign. In my opinion, the conversion law, which is intended to replace the promise of a new, strengthened acquisition law, is a solid political bulwark, or, if we are to use the name of the President of the case, a proper bulwark. It is alarming that the case's rapporteur, the representative, Oppebøen Hansen, is offensively marketing this as the implementation of the Government's active industrial policy. This, in my view, shows a rather superficial attitude to the issue of industrial policy. In the case of the conversion law, the purpose of the law is to prevent and prevent the closure of holdings. The active substance, a notification to the county council, is in stark contrast to that purpose, for which everyone can agree. The county has no prerequisite for preventing the closure of enterprises, even if there is a notification in the mailbox that this is about to happen. The law is also based on a rather free attitude towards Norwegian companies and managers. The government obviously believes that many businesses are being laid down as a sort of opportunistic act by management and owners. When farms are laid down, whether there is Bjälvfossen in Hardanger, the sardin factory King Oscar at Askøy or the Blikwalse plant in Bergen, there is often a reason for that. This reason cannot normally concern a notification to the county or so-called active industrial policy. This is what those who have been involved in that kind of situation know. On the contrary, it turns out over and over again that it is the framework conditions that determine the future of Norwegian enterprises. Safe jobs are about predictable framework conditions, about stable crown prices, about research and development, about labour supply, about road construction and about competitive taxes and taxes. On the other hand, the conversion law will result in a net deterioration in the company's framework conditions. The form field is increasing by 12 million. kr in the annual legal expenses of establishments laid down. The county will have increased its costs by 4 million. kr by processing these messages. This is probably money right out the window. Nor can it be ruled out that the law will have a negative effect by sending a migration message being perceived as satisfying society’s demands, when enterprises have to be reduced in a difficult situation. There is no doubt that the acquisition law, which is the political background for us to deal with the conversion law today, was a failure as a commercial policy instrument at the time it worked. Not a single purchase was prevented by the acquisition law. The only industry that benefited from the acquisition law was the law firm. They had about 200 million. kr in income from writing applications to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but did not save any industrial workplaces. The right is pleased that the government parties are now cancelling the promise to be able to govern business through the acquisition law, and the right will, of course, also vote against the proposal for the conversion law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e127	This bill is an attempt by the Government to fulfill the promise made by the government party in the 2005 election campaign to reintroduce a new and stronger acquisition law. I am pleased that a collective opposition does not support this form of symbol policy. The bill does not honour the election campaign promises. The Christian People's Party shares the view of individual hearing bodies that believe that the bill will not thwart the intention to preserve profitable jobs that are decommissioned. Nor can the Christian People's Party see that the obligation to report to the County Council about a closure will help us to continue to operate more effectively than at present through closures and thus reduce the negative impact on the community and the community. We must not forget that, in line with the Nordic model, there is also today the possibility of processes between enterprise, enterprise, community and public, and that such a dialogue is common in the cases where there is room for it. Our assessment is that the promise is unnecessary, and we are concerned that the promise may have unintended negative effects. Good general business framework conditions are the best means of securing employment and value creation in enterprises. The Christian People's Party cannot see that the proposal from the Government to the law on reporting obligations in the event of business closure will help improve the overall business environment. On the contrary, the proposal will primarily impose additional costs on businesses and will counter the intention to secure jobs around the country. In particular, we are concerned that these extra costs will be particularly heavy for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's argument against the LO's demand that the entry point for when the laws are to work be enterprises with ten added. Whether this is what the Government says: ‘This, according to the Ministry’s opinion, would lead to an increase in administrative and economic resource use both for enterprises and for the public to an extent that cannot be justified in relation to the need and purpose of the notification obligation scheme. ‘... The same argument can, in our view, lead to the whole bill. Instead of imposing unnecessary extra costs on businesses, the Christian People's Party will facilitate the release of creativity and creativity by individuals and individual businesses. We have to bet on the founders and the contractors. What we need, at least, is more unnecessary legislation and regulation. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party opposes the proposal for a law on reporting obligations in the event of the closure of business, but we join the proposed changes in mineral law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e151	The left's view is that active industrial policy is primarily about investing in research and innovation, and then ensuring access to capital at an early stage of establishment, because if Norway succeeds in maintaining value creation in the future as well, we need to build a society where entrepreneurs literally have the freedom to separate the old and put it together into something new and exciting. Society that can't break with the past, is confused, and rarely succeeds in the transformation necessary in an open, global economy. I'll almost go as far as saying that company closures are a prerequisite for building growth in society and for creating forward-looking jobs. Without company closures, we don't have a chance to achieve our goals, because that's what creates the basis for innovation and new businesses. We have a lot of examples of that. In addition, it is about signaling trust in businesses in taking on the demanding job of creating jobs - forward-looking jobs. Lawmaking the notification, calling or telling you that it is now intended to do so, and what is actually legislating what is a common, decent behaviour among all employers, is about signaling the opposite of trust in this type of enterprise: we think we need to regulate you to act decently and properly in such a demanding job as it is to convert and lay down. There's something about the basic attitude of the approach that I have to say scares me. And when we then deal with this today, while there is an NTB message that the Minister of Economic Affairs has this afternoon been presented with a report that says that there are fewer and fewer entrepreneurs in Norway, and that the entrepreneurship in Norway is on the verge, it should call a bell that perhaps you should focus on all the new things we will live on in the future, and not be concerned about how we can take care of what has happened. I could have taken up a lot of historical issues. It was a proud tradition when the Left in its time struck the industrial concession law in this room, which was important and right for its time, but which became less and less topical in an open and modern economy. I remember when we introduced the acquisition law. I have also had the honour to run the Ministry of Economic Affairs at a time when one put things back under the old industrial concession law and what was the acquisition law, and now even the acquisition law is gone, which is very good. I'm glad that the previous government took the initiative. We had done that completely independently of the EEA Act, because it was a totally fictitious law, at my discretion. One then gets the value chain from the industrial concession law, just for the time being, powerfully, through a acquisition law, which we have to say at best was a transitional phenomenon - I could tell many concrete business stories about how meaningless it was - and now to this obligation to call and tell, what is common, decent behavior for any employer with a certain number of employees. It's pretty artificial, I think, and especially when it's hanged again because the government parties at Soria Moria promised to do something, and where the government offices, the ministry offices, which often represent reason, realized that this was pretty stupid. Then they could very honestly stand up in this room and say, "I'm sorry, just at this point we thought quite stupidly and naively of Soria Moria, and that's what we have chosen to turn our backs on. In my opinion, it would have been much more honest than to make this law that we are dealing with today. So the government itself provides a pretty good argument against this law, in its argument against what was LO's claim that the law should work for companies with ten employees. Here's what the Government says: ‘This, according to the Ministry’s opinion, would lead to an increase in administrative and economic resource use both for enterprises and for the public, to a level that cannot be defended in relation to the need and purpose of the notification obligation scheme. ‘... That's right. That argument can be applied to the law that is there today. The government should have confidence that Norwegian company owners handle such demanding issues as this in a decent way. Of course, they will have dialogue with their employees - it is well regulated - and with society around them. That's the confidence that makes it possible for us to avoid getting the type of NTB messages that we have received today. Now we see the consequence of red-green policy: the number of entrepreneurs in Norway is falling. That's a shame, because we were about to get a good pace on this at the entrance of this century.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e165	Migration processes in Norwegian workplaces are no new phenomenon. There are a number of examples that such processes have been both successful and absolutely necessary. It's still going to be like that. When enterprises shut down or reduce their operations, it will be demanding for both employees and communities. In the Norwegian welfare community, the traditional community takes on the bulk of the costs incurred when a larger enterprise ceases to operate. That's a balance we don't want to shift by. It will be easier to manage migration processes as long as a liver in a society that provides a reasonable level of security through a good public security network. The government wants to facilitate successful conversions. This is the background to the proposal for a conversion law that Stortinget is dealing with today. The purpose of the law is to ensure that local communities and employees are taken into account in the event of company closures, while maintaining the ability of enterprises to convert. The proposal thus forms part of the ‘Norwegian model’. With the legislative proposal, the Government facilitates cooperation between the social partners and the authorities on common long-term interests. It is important that we maintain the good adaptability of the Norwegian economy. Here the companies themselves have the primary responsibility. Migration provides for increased value creation and safer and more forward-looking jobs, and is thus a prerequisite for innovation, well-being and growth. The Conversion Act is part of ensuring good migration processes in each enterprise and in each community. It contributes to the security of migration, while providing a framework allowing viable enterprises to continue their operations. The aim must be to facilitate the redeployment of employees and to help local communities cope with migration processes in a good way. The government proposes that companies with more than 30 employees be required to notify the county. It must take place no later than 30 days before the decision on closure is taken. During a 30-day period following receipt of the notification, a process involving owners, management, employees and authorities will take place. The government also proposes to introduce a new provision in the Working Environment Act that obliges business owners to discuss plans for employee redundancy. By legislating the obligation to discuss, we strengthen the influence of employees on the process. Corresponding rights exist in the Main Agreement between the NHO and the LO. So now it's legalized. In this way, we ensure that employees are given a real opportunity to assess possibilities for further operations, such as: that employees take over the business, alternative operations with new owners or other conversion measures. The changes in the laws thus give the enterprise, local and regional authorities and employees the opportunity to participate and engage to find alternative solutions. The system will contribute to the security of migration processes, which is crucial for creating new businesses and jobs. But let me also stress that the proposal does not imply any changes in the basic and established roles between the company's managers and employees. It is the responsibility of the board of directors to assess whether existing companies are life-creating, and to ensure ongoing and necessary changes in the company together with its employees. The role of the authorities is to facilitate industrial activities in Norway. In other words, the intention is not to interfere with internal processes in the companies. Both statutory and contractual arrangements for social partners have standards for information and discussion procedures with employees. What has been important to me has been to establish a system that ensures a process for solutions other than decommissioning, and that all rocks are turned around. Discussions will show whether alternative solutions are available for closure. In Norway, we have a tradition of addressing the challenges of transitions and closures through dialogue between the parties. We have to take care of this. At the same time, we also need to keep looking for opportunities for increased value creation. The Conversion Act is a tool for finding such opportunities. We now experience good times in business. Workers quickly come to work. Good migration processes will be a strength in the meeting with pressing times. In this way, too, the proposal for a conversion law is forward-looking. The proposal will contribute to a better general framework for business and thus secure businesses and jobs without imposing unnecessary burdens on business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e196	Government parties went far too far in their promises when they announced a new and strengthened acquisition law when they ran election campaigns in 2005. Just to clarify the clear break of the government's promises, will I ask a simple question to the Council of State: Did the Council of State and the Workers' Party know at the time of the 2005 election campaign that EEA legislation put an effective end to a new and strengthened acquisition law? And did the Council of State and the Workers' Party draw the attention of the voters to it before the election day of 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e201	What we knew was that there were problems with the EEA agreement with the old acquisitions law, and that is why we do not propose to reintroduce it. But we have now proposed a new conversion law that is important for two reasons. Firstly, it legislates the right of employees to discuss the possibility of contributing to the continuation of their activities. That right exists today in the Main Agreement between LO and NHO. So it's going to be legal. It strengthens the rights of employees to exercise influence in order to continue their operation. The second main point of the law is that if it is not possible to continue operating, we will create a system in which the county councils - which, as the representative may remember, has also been given responsibility for conversion in a completely different way, with subsidies from the local and regional departments in case of large enterprise closures - together with Innovation Norway, NAV and others will prepare good conversions if the company cannot be saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e211	The Government has justified the migration law by preventing and preventing job closures. A well-known closure case in Norwegian business in recent years is the closure of Norwegian Forest Union. This case was in a way the cause of the Workers' Party's promise to resuscitate a new acquisition law. During this period, we have also seen other major closures in the Norwegian industry, for example. the closure of the ferro-silicon-magnesium activity at Bjölvefoss in Hardanger, the closure of the Blikwalse plant in Bergen, currently under way, and the Sardine plant King Oscar on Ashøy, which was recently closed. Then it is tempting to ask the Minister of Industry if he believes that some jobs in these closures would have been saved if you had the Conversion Act, or if he knows about other jobs that would have been saved if you had the Conversion Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e218	Let me then refer to two of the issues that were mentioned here. One is Union in Skien. In fact, what was the case in the Union was not that the company could not be further driven. It was there that Norwegian Forest refused to sell the Union so that others could drive on. In that type of process, the position of employees would obviously be strengthened by this conversion law. In Ålvik, the situation is completely different. There is a complete stop in production, but Elkem has now decided to continue their production beyond the time they had indicated in relation to when they had planned to stop production. In the last example, with the Blikwalsewerk, I have recorded that the parties of Hansen in Bergen have stated that they were very surprised that the message about the Blikwalsewerk came very quickly. And in meeting the employees, at least their view of the matter has been that they have had far too little opportunity to discuss alternative options with Corus as their owner. So for the law, this law would give employees better opportunity to discuss alternative solutions than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e227	Being a Minister of Industry means that every day you get the opportunity to meet Norwegian business leaders and Norwegian business owners and become familiar with Norwegian business at many levels. And I think the Minister of Industry will confirm in response to this reply that these are very real and decent people, both leaders and owners, who are concerned about being part of society and understanding the society they are in, keeping the authorities informed, taking proper care of their employees, etc. Promoting a law that makes this decent, proper behavior in a way have to be legalized - because we suspect that you are not going to act like that - I think it is an important contribution not to take care of the trust that very much of this is based on. I want to clarify the last question asked by the previous replicator: are there any examples of company closures that have occurred that would have been stopped by this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e236	It is not possible to say with certainty that a closure would be halted, because it would depend on the possibilities that employees and owners jointly consider to be the basis for further operations. What is certain is that the position of employees in cases where they are given too little opportunity to try to establish a basis for further operations will improve. Let me put it another way: for the many good owners to which the representative Sponheim refers, the change will be small. For those who are not as good owners, there will be a system that they actually have to follow. So I would like to say to the representative Sponheim's main post, where it was underlined by the ability to convert is important: I fully agree with the representative Sponheim in that. Norwegian business today is going very well because we have a good adaptability. It must not mean closures. It can also mean good changes in the business life that exists. But conversion is necessary. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e245	The election campaign created the impression that we were going to get a law of employment that was stronger than the old one. But then we've got something that's not even a law on light, because this is mostly about the law of some processes that are already agreed between the parties. The question is, does the Council not see that this can create false expectations that one here gets a new hub to prevent business closures - but then it turns out that this hub is not working at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e252	I don't see any reason to get false hopes on the basis of the law that seems to be passed. But we give real hopes to employees that their influence in difficult conversion processes, if a company is threatened by closure, will be strengthened. Point one: they will be strengthened to take over the business either themselves or with other new owners to be able to continue their business. And, not least, point two: we put the public tool in place as quickly as possible to help ensure that, if it is not possible to avoid closure, the conversion processes that are then to be started can start as early as possible. In these two areas, we give real hopes to the employees of the companies. I think, although we have agreed that there are many good business owners in Norway who stick to the Norwegian model, that we should nevertheless be aware of the difficulties it means for many employees to lose the job that is the basis for loans, homes, housing, etc. There are so difficult processes that we also need a law that regulates the possibility of influence over that kind of process. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e259	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e262	The Council of State is constantly raising its curiosity about the answers he has to the lines that have come from the opposition, and I just have to go a little bit of history into here when we look at the Union case. He refers to it and to the fact that the rights of employees would be strengthened by this conversion law. In the Union case, we had 120 days' notice from the company until a final decision was taken on closure. The employees were in continuous negotiations. Investors were present all the time and wanted to buy up the company, but so it was that management in the Union would not continue. Why does the Council of State believe that the conversion law would give a different outcome for the Union staff if it had been adopted before this matter came up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e269	As I just answered the question, I think it was from the representative Sponheim, it is not possible to give a guarantee of the result of such a process. What it would give rise to is even better processes, where employees are now given the legal right to discuss the possibility that they alone or together with other new owners will find the basis for further activity. Then I must be allowed to say that the representative Fostervold was probably injured in order to give a somewhat pictorial picture of Jens Stoltenberg's statement on the Union case in Skien. I remember well, because it's in my neighborhood. I followed closely and was very interested in the Hydro case and the possibility that someone could run that business further, preferably with something other than newspaper production. I remember that the representative Stoltenberg was then criticized for promising too little when he visited the Union in Grenland. So he should have promised that that company would survive if it was a government change, is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e276	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e279	I agree with the representative Lars Sponheim that all, most farm owners in Norway, are honest, decent people. I have also enjoyed visiting many of them. Both as a member of the Business Committee and as a representative of the Nord-Trøndelag, I have had a number of company visits. One must not regard this law as a kind of mistrust of all the great business leaders and business owners we have in Norway. But we know today that more and more of the owners in Norway are also international. We know that part of those who sit as owners of businesses have the primary goal of getting the most return on capital. There are a good many business owners who have a two-sided, dualistic approach to this - that you have to make money, and that in a way you have to make an important contribution to a community in order to create jobs. But it's not all of them. There's someone who has a clean economic approach. If the return on capital is not good enough, you choose to withdraw, sell, decrease. So we know that the most important resource in an enterprise is the competence of the employees. It is the second most important resource of most enterprises. It's not the buildings or the equity, it's the employee's knowledge. So if it turns out that employees have seen opportunities to move on, the chance is very good that you can do it, because you're sitting on the main resource yourself. Then the law that is now coming is important. You make a system to get into a good dialogue. Examples are requested in this case. I have an example from my own municipality, Overhalla, where for many years an American company ran a fish vaccine factory at Skogmo in Overhalla, with 25-30 employees. They thought they were making too little money. It was on the verge of that factory disappearing. But fortunately, you were able to have a dialogue, then without a law. But it was on the verge. A dialogue was established between the employees and the American owners. The result is that today the company is twice as big and makes a lot of money. It does it very well, and is a safe workplace in that community. But it wasn't a matter of course that it got like this. It was the hard work of many politicians who managed to connect it, so they got to it in the exact case. That is why a law presented by the Government today is important in order to be able to establish systems where it is proposed to lay down, so that employees can get on the road in a tidy way. Then we can imagine that, in the future, we can come up with other types of instruments that guarantee employees' rights. You have to get back to that. But now we have a law that allows us to draw up a framework that makes it easier for employees to take over when businesses are laid down, to move, so that they can secure jobs in the communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e293	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e296	I see from the newspaper that the representative Torbjørn Hansen is still concerned about the government's active industrial policy. He wants to return to the business neutrality of the Bondevik government and appears to have had better days before the government change in 2005. It's hardly a surprise. But neither Ansgar Gabrielsen nor Børge Brende were particularly concerned about business conversions. And then came the Union case. It obviously made Burne so murky that he became social-democrat on a wink in the middle of the campaign, until the election came as a liberation. Right, times have been getting so much better since then. It may not be expected that business will focus on shifts in a period when all arrows point upwards. But it's equally important to facilitate good conversion processes in upcoming situations, and we know that they're coming. We know that the right and right parties seem, for reasons of principle, to be a nuisance every time the authorities in different contexts demand company owners a certain minimum of social responsibility. So now we are demanding a reporting obligation in the event of the closure of industrial activities, so that local communities can at least prepare for a change or facilitate the further life of enterprises, if possible. So we're talking about the obligation to discuss where companies, government, employees and potential investors can assess the consequences of a planned closure and possibly find remedies. In a situation where a company in the representative Torbjørn Hansen's hometown, the Blikwalsewerk in Bergen, with its 260 employees, has been decided upon by the owners, Right-wing is an opportunity to chatter with a law that, if it had come into force at this time, had at least given the owners the obligation to notify municipalities and county councils of the plans for closure available - and then in such a good time that there was still time to respond. As far as I can see, even Hansen's own party traps in Bergen seem to have brought this closure a bit of a hurry, according to the Council of State recently. This, of course, does not mean that the closure of the tin mill could have been prevented. It has never been and is still not possible to prevent owners from shutting down businesses when they finally want to. Fortunately, there are many examples of responsible business managers contributing to sensible transitions, just as there are examples of the opposite. Unfortunately, we have examples of business owners laying down profitable jobs for strategic reasons without regard to the community and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e307	I agree with those who have said that we cannot prevent changes and renewals in these days. Many times our society depends on it. But when that happens, we can at least be involved and secure and help where it happens, so that it becomes good processes. It's very good times a day. It's very low unemployment, and it's almost so that we don't take closures as heavy, because now we know that there are jobs. That's very good. Nevertheless, one should be careful to underestimate the significance of this with certainty for work. In fact, job security is one of the most important concerns of human security. As conversion processes begin to occur, they threaten that security. Nevertheless, when you get this conversion law, you are able to make things better. For example, the Ardal, from which I come, has been through a great process of conversion over the last few years. But through an enormous commitment from the companies, from the owners, from the municipality and from the county municipality, they have managed to get to work together and to get to a good conversion process that now makes the whole community go. In fact, there is a shortage of labour, and new housing areas are being built to make more people move to the countryside. This promise we believe is in order to ensure that such good conversion processes can also take place in other communities. The left here is talking about them being so busy with foundation and creative power. I guess we're all a few of them that it's very important. That's why this government has invested enormously in Innovation Norway, and that's why we have invested in Young Entrepreneurship and are still investing in it, and that's why we have invested in our new investment fund to help develop good ideas and create businesses. Nevertheless, most of them will be added to businesses. I see no contradiction by working both for entrepreneurship and for safe jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e316	It is a little strange to hear the right-hand side's argument in this case. On the one hand, they act as consumer inspectors for analysing electoral promises which they believe have been made or which they wish to produce as if they had been given but which have not been given, as the Council of State could report here. Secondly, you try to create the impression that this is a law that was meant to stop development, stop business conversion. It has no root in reality, to say the least, Parliamentary. We have a transition-friendly economy in Norway, we're adaptable, and it has to do with making workers in this country have a security that they get unemployment benefits, they don't lose everything if they lose their jobs. But you also want an influence on the processes that can lead to losing your job. It's important to do this law that we have here now. It was said with regard to the introduction of this obligation to notify and the obligation to actually demonstrate that there has been an assessment of the company's potential for conversion or sale, that this law is a mistrust of employers. It's going to be a little bit weird. What about the Working Environment Act? We have a work environment law that obliges companies to ensure that they have safe and secure jobs, without risk of accidents. It is not because we believe that if we had not had that law, employers would lead their workers into dangerous situations. I want to say something about the Blikwalse plant. The situation calling for conversion. It's overcapacity in the industry. It's not the framework conditions that are in the way, it's not the tax that's in the way. It's overcapacity in the industry. Thus, the owner of the company, who is not a founder from Bergen, but Tata, chooses an Indian multinational giant worldwide, who then chooses to concentrate production elsewhere. What the employees are asking is a number of questions that they are not being answered, they are being rejected. If this law had been in force now, they could be certain that they could by law require a proper process, where the company should have documented that it had made an assessment of the impact on the employees and the community if the company had been shut down. They had to document the background to the plans for closure and provide information on what they had done to find the ‘business alternative business enterprise’ as stated in the law. It's this kind of thing that's important to get good conversion processes in the Norwegian economy. What's going on at the Blikwalsewerk today can look like we don't have good conversion processes, even though I don't think it's the bad will of the owners who do. It is the law that has been too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e327	I have to say I'm a little provoked, and I'm very surprised at the way the representative Steinar Gullvåg and the Minister of Industry are talking about the situation at the Blikwalsewerk in Bergen. It is claimed that this law, which requires notification to the county council, would have an impact on the situation of the law enforcement agency. Let me first just say that the deadline for reporting obligations in this law is 30 days before cancellation. Today we have the date May 6th, and the notified closure is, as far as I understand, July 1st. In other words, the company has given notice long before the deadline for notification would come into force under this law. This means that the company has been far ahead of the obligations under the conversion law. So I'm going to follow this up, the question of what the government actually thinks is in the content of the conversion law, if the government believes that this law that we're adopting today, will mean anything to the situation of the 270 employees who lose the job at the Plumb plant in Bergen. I hope that the Minister of Industry can explain to the Stortinget and to those in the situation that is going on in Bergen these days. This really just goes into a big picture of business policy, which is characterized by the fact that there are good times in the Norwegian economy, that business is doing well, but at the same time there are lots of lifting breaks and lots of empty and cheap rhetoric around the business environment. The rise times make business do well. At the same time, it makes industrial policy an arena for superficial and cheap rhetoric. We can only note that the part of the industrial policy that is governed by this government is putting the framework conditions in the wrong direction and weakening the viability of Norwegian industry. If we look at tax policy, Norwegian ownership is gradually weakened. If we look at the transport policy, we are doing far too little in relation to the space of action that the Government has in today's good economic situation. It is also striking to see how the Government does not prioritize research and innovation, but rates on other things that are much more short-term. We also see that the Government conducts a fiscal policy that increases the pressure on interest and the price of the crown. And in the case of individual industries such as fishing, travel and maritime business, there is no one there who boasts of the government's so-called active industrial policy. I think that the representatives of the government parties had been a little bit about putting their finger in the ground and getting a little more realistic about what active business policy is. I'm going to look forward with great expectations to how the Government's law of conversion would have affected the situation at the Blikwalsewerk in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e338	There has been a lot of talk about Union cases, the election campaign in 2005, broken promises, etc., etc. I'm not going to comment on it, because it's been a brilliant comment by the Council of State. The representative Torbjørn Hansen calls for an active industrial policy from this government. Then I will remind Torbjørn Hansen of the following: This government has developed national strategies in several areas where Norway has special competence or special advantage. The public media actors, such as me and others. discussed in the latest issue in Stortinget tonight, are important contributors to such wagering. Furthermore, it is well known that the Soria Moria Declaration states that the maritime sector, the marine sector, energy, the environment and tourism are important areas of activity for this government. Value creation is crucial to ensure well-being. Therefore, innovation and transformation are important for the red-green government. This is contrary to the government that Right and the representative Torbjørn Hansen represented in the previous period, which had as an ideological starting point that the state should have the least possible business to do. Thus, the government’s task was to keep taxes and taxes as low as can be expected and not to interfere prematurely with industrial policy. That's not what the red-green government wants. That is why we have a different policy. I got a little quick in my first post and referred to the reading instructions from the representative Torbjørn Hansen, who has turned over all over the country. He calls his article "Foodlanding of economic policy". There he claims that ‘the law does not represent an appropriate instrument for achieving the objective’ one is after. And he has repeated that here tonight. In his reading, he says that the promise “is totally unnecessary” and concludes with: ‘Norwegian business needs a break from the government’s active industrial policy. ‘... And then finally, I'm going to illustrate a little bit of the right belly pad. I would like to remind you that Right has just had its national meeting, and then it is tempting to quote an unknown right-wing member, simply a lawyer and business leader Gustav Heiberg Simonsen. He says to today's business: ‘Rights are no longer the party of industry. We have to consolidate and get clearer here. ‘... It's of its own one shall have it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e361	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e364	First to the representative Eldegard, who says that founding is not a problem, because everyone gets. So now the number of entrepreneurs in Norway is falling. And the number of new businesses is falling quite considerably. It has been presented in a report to the Minister of Industry today. It was in the previous magnification period that this really took off, in the positive direction. It's too early to say, but I'm afraid we're now seeing the consequences of the so-called red-green active industry policy: people are more skeptical about drying bets. So to this with company closures and this debate, which was my main concern. Today, before a board meeting to make a decision, you see the commitment. Fortunately, employees have their representation. They'll get some paperwork. They're launching a huge device, it's awesome. There are skilled people in the trade unions and strong involvement in community communities. Our whole democracy, the public space and freedom of expression, works. It works: I'll tell you that when you've seen in the Day Revy Hydro Director Riding Meeting in the Valley of Årdal and going canoeing past the people of society, not many business managers are looking forward to these processes. Fortunately, this is an instrument. This is how a modern, good society works, which gets it out into public space, gets a debate, puts it under pressure. The options are coming up. We even get Norwegian investors who dance around and want to start paper factory again in Skien, mountain Follum, build hospital and I don't know what - in the public room. What are you proposing now? Some bureaucratic spinning pipes are proposed, where you will meet at the T 717 meeting at the county council and discuss it with four bureaucrats. Who is it that wants to get involved? You take care of this: there is a representative for Innovation Norway, you have a nice meeting and a meeting report, and everyone has a feeling that this has been taken care of, so then we don't need the popular strong social commitment. What I fear is that responsibility is powdered, instead of holding pressure, through public media and public space, on those who really have responsibility. I am absolutely sure that after having been through the processes with the Union, with Årdal and elsewhere, there are not many business owners and business managers in Norway who are easily involved in such processes. That is what is the powerful instrument. This we are adopting today is some bureaucratic spinning pipes and nothing but a red-green ping-pong law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e381	I don't think there's any reason to argue over the bill that's now under consideration. I see it as a law that at least ensures a minimum of communication between the company, the employees and the community around, represented by the municipality/communities. I think that in many cases the deadline set will be too short to ensure a good process. I assume that in the vast majority of cases, contacts and dialogue with local/regional authorities will be established in good time. In my previous life, I have participated in several such processes, and what characterises the responsible owner and manager, is that contact is established at an early stage, and then preferably with the rapporteur in the municipality, who then alerts further. But I remember one case in which, after a meeting in the department, the manager had received a message that the company has no responsibility other than itself - a signal that should be an example of an authority's insanity, and that could put local initiative and local involvement at risk. That's why I think this law has a mole, also to authorities. It ensures a minimum of dialogue and communication, and it places some pressure on both the company and the public to act constructively and rationally. Conversion is the key to development and progress, both large and small. It's just fixing. Good processes and anchoring are keywords for success. Here, the Nordic leadership model, if it can be defined, has a great advantage. From time to time, the idea is that Norwegian business is not adequately qualified for conversion. Experience shows that Norwegian companies are better off than companies in other countries in terms of conversion, and I think that is related to the fact that we have many competent managers with a high understanding of the role and importance of the company for the community, and we have responsible employees, who have a certain minimum of security of income and well-being. This creates security and gives more room for involvement in the development of the business. And that's how I think we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e392	The representative Torbjørn Hansen said something like it's good times, and it gives room for superficial rhetoric. I think it's a term that fits very well with what comes from the right-hand side of this debate -- it's superficial rhetoric. I have not been so close to the treatment of this law as others who participate in the debate have been, but at least I have been told that, as the representative Hansen said, it is not the 30-day deadline for cancellation that is mentioned in the law. It is about 30 days before the decision to close the proceedings is taken that a procedure should be initiated. And if there are current alternatives - as proposed in Section 4 - to shut down the enterprise, the county may in exceptional cases extend this period by up to 30 days. That's the very big point in the case that we have in Bergen with the Blikwalsewerk, where the employees towards us as politicians who have chosen to meet the employees of this company express that they feel that they are being overrun. We also see that the press releases from reputable PR agencies arrived on the day, employment agencies were in place about before the employees were told about the closures. This does not indicate that there have been any good processes prior to the day the employees were informed about what was going on. And you feel that there are not good processes there today. That is why the employees of the Swedish Civil Service Agency have asked politicians to engage. With the law we have today, it is limited to what we can engage in. Of course, we expect serious company owners in Norway to behave according to the legal and contractual framework. What's the problem for us is to be able to point out whether or not real processes are going on. With the legislation proposed here, for example, the county may - if they have found reason to do so - have said that one should wait another 30 days before a decision on closure can be taken. Because there are a lot of things that indicate that there are good alternatives to shutting down the plant. If employees are allowed to work as they have done before when they have saved the company several times, they may come up with good solutions. And the very best thing would be if they could do so in collaboration with Innovation Norway, with the county council and, of course, with the management of the company. But this is not the case by law. Today, unfortunately, that is why we are not getting that process so well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e406	The representative Torbjørn Hansen said that there was a lot of empty and cheap rhetoric in the business debate. I will not allow myself to say it that way, but I would like to congratulate you on a considerable degree of self-confidence, because I think that is a very good description. And the representative himself gave the example of that when, for example, he did. asked why not the Government instead of focusing on innovation policy. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade's budget, research measures have increased by 37,5 p.m.. since this government took over. It's not that we're not going to do that, and we're going to have the acquisition law instead; we're going to have the conversion law as well. When the representative went on to say that there was no one in the fishing industry, in the maritime sector or in the tourism sector who thought that this government was pursuing a good active industrial policy, fortunately the reality on the outside of this house - at tourism conferences, at maritime conferences - is quite different from that expressed by the representative. I also refer to the representative Henriksen, who has his experience in producing value-creating business and knows how some of these processes feel on the body. Then I have to say that it is obvious that the representative has not got what the law means. Now the representative Henriksen mentioned one example, 30 days before the decision on closure. Another thing is that I've had more meetings with the trustees at the Plumb plant. Others in the department have met with representatives of the owners, from the Netherlands. So we've tried to follow that process. And one of the things that's hard to accept for the employees is not that there's a difficult cyclical situation -- they're taking it in. Nor is it that they have to go with profits to secure jobs, because that is what people in the competitive sector know. But what's of course disappointing is when they're so constructive that they want to go in and downgrade something, drive it in a different way and reduce the cost side, in that way try to get the company to go better. The last time I talked to them, they had an opportunity to present such a sketch to the owners on 8 May. Is that enough time? No, of course it's not. With this law in hand, we had other framework conditions to try to help establish a basis for further operations. At the same time, we have responsible employees in this country, not just responsible owners. So we don't have enough grounds today to try out all the possibilities. We get a better chance of doing that with this law than before it was passed. I think most of those who have been in manufacturing business and away in these kinds of processes, obviously look. I'm recording that the representative Hansen doesn't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e418	What got me to ask for the word once again was a statement from the representative Steinar Gullvåg, who has made it almost a sport to try to put on the Bondevik II administration about the ‘nutritional neutrality’. Then I feel like an obligation to bring some public information, for the only place, the only document where I find that 'nutritional neutrality' is mentioned is in St.meld. No 36 for 2000-2001 on SND. This message was the Stoltenberg I administration that submitted. There we read: ‘The Government wants this main principle of business neutrality to continue to be used as a basis for the instruments taken together at national level. ‘... Once I have the floor and some time left, let me sum up the debate like this, after listening to the comments of the representatives of the government party: at least there should be agreement in this Chamber that this promise is not the most revolutionary and frontier-breaking measure to sustain local communities and jobs in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e428	I'm not going to try to take up competition with all the evidence from the red-greens who have participated in the manufacturing, value-creating business, and who, unlike the representative Hansen, have a lot of insight into how these processes are going on. I have no such evidence, but I think that this bill suggests such an ingrained distrust of those who are trying to create something in this society, that it goes far beyond my ability to understand. So this is probably a set of an active enterprise policy, which is essentially a symbolism policy through option issues, through several purchases that we have seen, and which really do not contribute positively at all, but provide the basis for an active enterprise policy. It could have been a good thing if you didn't agree to criticise the policy that has brought Norwegian business to where it is today. That is really why I took the floor, because the rapporteur says that, unlike the previous government, there is an active industrial policy. Among other things, there are national strategies. Yes, I know the national strategy for the maritime effort. It was 100 million. kr, while adding NOK 21 billion to the Norwegian shipping industry that they had to incur in their balance sheets, after the Minister of Industry said in the Chamber on 7 February that at least the third investment in environmental measures could be carried out as equity. Then the discussion we're holding here today is, to put it mildly, puzzled. Also with the address of the case rapporteur, who says that our industrial policy largely agreed to keep taxes down: yes, that was one of the measures, and that led to the fact that today we have NOK 132 billion in additional tax revenue. But we didn't just keep the taxes down, we also kept the interest down. What we see today is a government that is trying to get the taxes up, and at the same time the interest is going up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e439	I will also try to be moderate, as the Progress Party was earlier here today, and not go too far in the debate. But I must say that sitting and listening to this debate has been a pure pleasure, especially the story of Steinar Gullvåg. I understand that it is the opposition's job to complain, but for the Norwegian people it would also be a pleasure to listen to this debate, and you could think back to the kindergarten. I just want to point out some important differences in relation to the policy of the previous Minister of Industry of the Bondevik Government and today's industrial policy. I don't think we would have had the debate we have today, if we had another government, because then there would never have been such a proposal as what has been presented today. Because after what we saw, and what we heard -- this to the representative of Sørfonn -- it was without a doubt industry neutrality and tax havens that were the product of the previous government. I am surprised that he has followed so badly in the political debate that he has not got it. They wouldn't, because there was no business neutrality and tax laws that were supposed to apply. So now we have a government that will. Sam Eyde said over 100 years ago that where there's will, there's gone. It shows this government. I cannot come to any other country where we are in a better situation than what we are in now in Norway, in terms of the labour market and low unemployment. And it doesn't come of itself! In 100 years we've almost doubled our life span in Norway. 100 years ago, we were one of the poorest countries in the world. No one has to think that it's coming by itself. I find it a pity that Svein Fleet did not join Argentina, because then he could really have seen what business neutrality and lack of political governance can do to a resource-rich country. So we're on the right track. We have a Minister of Industry with great integrity in running an active industrial policy, and we have a list as long as a bad year, if the opposition wants to see it. But instead, they go to this pulpit and complain about something they wouldn't do for themselves, and they're proud to say that it has nothing to do with the politicians. I think that both industry, workers, people most, yes, everyone in Norway appreciates that we have the situation on the labour market that we have and that we have an active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e452	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e460	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e611	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e683	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e693	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06-lower.ana.ud1011e798	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
