ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e22	The representative of Øyvind Waksdal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the requested alternate of the Vestfold County, Merete Hannevig, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Anders Anundsenspermition from 6 October to 10 October, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the Vestfold County, Per Arne Lodding Olsen, is convened to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e47	Per Arne Lodding Olsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e53	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e63	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e68	On behalf of the representatives of Bent Höie, Kari Lise Holmberg, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to make it easier for researchers and specialists to work at approved training and research institutes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e73	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e85	The president proposed that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives one post of up to 10 minutes. Following these insertions, a row of up to five rows is allowed. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 18 posts, the Party of Twelve eleven posts, the Right Seven posts, the Socialist Left Party 4 posts, the Christian People's Party 3 posts, the Centre Party 3 posts and the Left Three posts. After two of the 5 minute inserts from each group, access is given to a row of up to three rows. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e94	The international financial turmoil is taking us all up. A lot of people are worried. I understand those who feel uncertain about home and home, work and income. Norway is a country with a small and open economy. We are therefore affected by the uncertainty that now prevails in the international economy. However, we are well equipped to meet the situation triggered by the financial crisis in the United States. It's because of a lot of relationships. Firstly, we have a solid economy in our country. Never before have more people been at work. Unemployment has halved in the last three years. The value creation in the country is higher than it has ever been. Purchasing power increased. Secondly, we have financial freedom of action. If the international financial crisis becomes more profound and longer-lasting than we are considering today, we have the freedom to step up the measures to keep the wheels running here in Norway. This is because we have been pursuing a responsible economic policy in our country for many years. We don't spend more money than the economy can bear. We have a surplus on the state budget and significant financial reserves in which other countries have a large deficit and have used up their reserves. We have the economy in order. Thirdly, over several decades, we have built social development on the Norwegian model. We are based on good cooperation between the state and private capital. We have public governance of the financial and capital markets. We have focused on good, modern and coherent regulation of the entire financial sector. We have strong control of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. The state is a major owner in the banking sector and in other of our largest corporations. This is a stabilising factor in the economy and social development. Not least, the Norwegian model is based on a strong public sector. It protects the population against strong fluctuations in markets. This plays a crucial role in the stabilisation of society in an uncertain and troubled time. In this way, Norway is better equipped than most to meet the economic waste winds that celebrate all over the Western world. We'll be affected, but we've arranged to meet what's coming, and we can mitigate the effects. But let me be clear, and let me repeat this: we are going to notice the effects of the international financial crisis. We've already seen the pressure on interest rates. The stock prices of Oslo Stock Exchange have fallen by 41 p.m. since the New Year. Norwegian companies will find it more difficult to sell goods abroad when demand from other countries decreases. The government therefore keeps a very sharp eye on developments. The credit supervision is closely monitoring the situation. Norwegian banks are solid. Norwegian banks have few defaulted loans. We also have a good insurance scheme for depositors covering deposits of up to 2 million. kr in Norwegian banks. The banking system is essential for the proper functioning of the economy. The banks finance investments, and they account for a large number of transactions. They transfer money from those who save, to those who invest. Therefore, banks are important for the operation of the fundamental conditions of the economy as well. Banks make about 1.5 billion payments a year. On an average day, the amount is NOK 250 billion in the transactions banks make - in a single day! Banks must have liquidity to implement this for their customers, for any amount, at any time and without delay. It's about the cycle of the economy. After a day's transactions, some banks have surplus liquidity, and some banks have deficit liquidity. Now the banks are becoming more afraid of borrowing each other's money, and then this stops the cycle. The interest rate in the interbank market has increased and is around 2 pst. above Norway’s Bank lending rate, significantly higher than normal. Therefore, Norway’s Bank has increased its liquidity injection. Only during the last two business days last week, approximately NOK 130 billion was transferred to the banks of the Bank of Norway. The interest rate on these loans was lower than 6 pst. - significantly lower than the rate currently in the interbank market, where banks borrow from each other. In other words, banks have borrowed more than under normal conditions, and with longer maturities. Money has also been provided through alternative channels through the use of currency to provide collateral to reach more financial institutions and to increase the supply of liquidity or money to the banking sector. In addition, Norway’s Bank is now expanding what is accepted as collateral for loans, providing even better access to the bank of Norway. Norway’s Bank is responsible for the supply of liquidity, and the Ministry of Finance and the Government follow-up. Norway’s Bank assesses ongoing measures to further improve the liquidity of the Norwegian banking system. And we have tools at our disposal if the situation gets more difficult. Tomorrow, we will present proposals for the 2009 government budget. It's a budget that's well adapted to the economic situation we're up against. It's a budget that assumes that growth will be internationally lower next year than this year. It is a budget that meets its challenges in a wide range of areas. It is a budget that gives us robustness and freedom of action to deal with unforeseen and longer-lasting setbacks also in the Norwegian economy. The lesson of the current financial crisis is that the market cannot regulate itself. It is wrong to believe that most things can be left to the market and that the market can be left to itself. The Community needs to regulate and control have been stamped as interventions and closures. Greed has been raised to a virtue to be protected. Some have called this the galloping madness of greed. But what we see now when the system breaks down is that in this system, the benefits, the upside and the gains have been privatized, while the disadvantages, the downside and the dishwashing are left to the community. In this very special situation, which characterizes an entire world, someone has come up with the fabulous theory that the problems are caused by too much regulation. It is to turn the matter upside down completely. The problem is not that we have too much; we have too little regulation. The problem has been too low of official control, of lack of legislation and of failure to follow up market forces. The problem has simply not been too much state. The problem has been too small a country, too small a community, too little public involvement, and too little understanding of many of those who run large sums of money, because they have a great responsibility not only for their own bonuses, but for society's community and society's economy. The problem has been too much unregulated market. The market is a good servant, but a bad master. The market cannot be controlled. It must be checked. However, there are those who continue their clippings and who, on several occasions at the latest last week, have challenged the Norwegian model itself. There are still people who, while the whole world is holding their breath, suggest that we also start a game of chance with people's homes and jobs. In this time of uncertainty, the Progress Party opens up a solid economic and political experiment that will take us into the completely unknown. This is all but what the country needs now. Our jobs, homes need stability, predictability and order in the economy. This isn't the time for experiments. At a time when the consequences of a financial market without strong and far-reaching regulation are understandable to an entire world, the Progress Party re-submits proposals where the deregulation, weakening of the control institutions, release and absence of political governance are required. Even President George W. Bush has lost faith that the market can take care of itself. Instead, he asks Congress to settle the market. But the Progress Party is blindly relying on the same inadequate market forces. The party has programmed that the money and credit markets should be free of political regulation and interference. A whole world is now fleeing from the consequences of the unbridled liberalist economy. Then it's alarming that someone wants to introduce this system right here at home. This reveals fundamental differences in the way society is organised, between those who believe that markets should be governed, and us who believe that markets must be governed. What the Progress Party proposes is, in fact, an attack on the basis of the Norwegian model at a time when it should be strengthened. They are going to fight against political governance and control at a time when we should have more of it, not less. A situation that we now experience calls for accountability. It is not responsible and not in line with the Norwegian model to replace our regulated mixed economy with a liberal economic system that is now in crisis internationally. And it's not responsible to add to irresponsible use of money and an economic policy that's not related. It is not responsible to cut 20 million. kr in the budgets of the credit supervision where strict and good control is more required than ever. It's Siv Jensen and Per Sandberg's liberalism, where President George W. Bush is referred to as a socialist, who now stands as the alternative to the well-proven and safe Norwegian model we have built the post-war social development. What we announced in the census, which will be reinforced by the budget we are presenting tomorrow, is a defense for this Norwegian model. It shall be rusted up, not built down. It shall be developed, not liquidated. This will be the most important issue in the political debate in the coming year. That's when we discuss this, the differences come out. And the biggest differences are just about the choices that a whole world is now discussing: Is strong fellowship for the benefit of individual freedom? Should we strengthen or weaken the community? Should we have more or less market? Should we have more or less control and official control? Our answer is clear. We believe that the community should be strengthened. We believe that good safety nets help the individual and give room for individual freedom. We believe that the community helps to give many individuals opportunities they would not otherwise have had. We believe that a strong community is equipped to resist when financial waste winds and crime lakes oppose us. We are simply proud of the Norwegian model of society and see that others now wish they had arranged themselves like us. We disagree with those who believe that Community solutions stand in the way of individual human beings. We disagree that regulations exist to keep people down. Good regulation is there to keep society up. Those who ask for freedom from regulation ask for freedom to prioritize themselves at the expense of everyone else. These are the important choices we face as a society: Should we choose more and better well-being or great cuts in taxes? Are we going to choose to cancel out social differences, or are we going to cut the taxes to the richest? Should we choose community and community welfare solutions, or should we privatize school and care? Should we strengthen or should we weaken employees' rights? Should we have an active or passive enterprise policy? Are we going to keep the state as a large and stabilizing owner in important and large corporations, or are we going to sell out our common legacy silver? Are we going to take international responsibility and contribute to the fight for the environment and against poverty, or are we going to cut deep into the fight for international solidarity? Our answer is clear. We choose the community. Let's pick the Norwegian model. In the last three years, the majority government has given a new direction to the country. We've got more and stronger communities. We have prioritised welfare instead of large cuts in taxes. We have prioritised school, care for the elderly, roads and kindergartens. A lot is done, but we want to move on. These are still challenges we have to face. We don't meet them by releasing a market that for a whole world and once and for all has shown that that's not the answer to these important questions. We don't meet them with economic experiments. We meet them with a responsible economic policy, predictability and long-term perspective. That's how we create community. That's how we create security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e191	I had so far assumed that the Prime Minister was going to spend his time on the Progress Party instead of what the Government intends to do to meet the financial crisis, which the Prime Minister acknowledges is also turning into Norway. So it was not said one word about what the Prime Minister and the Government think should be done to avoid the crisis becoming so big. Actually, I think he should have responded, because that's what people are asking about. What will the Government do to prevent this crisis from becoming greater than necessary? Then I think the Prime Minister should stay too good to bring this type of rhetoric. He comes with direct misinformation about the Progress Party and what we stand for. He knows very well that there has been a unanimous increase that has supported credit and monetary policy - in fact, based on a long-standing proposal by the Progress Party that the Prime Minister himself introduced under his previous government in 2001. There has been a unanimous increase that has been behind all the regulation of the Norwegian financial sector. It includes the Progress Party - and the Prime Minister knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e198	First of all, the government of the opinion that we are taking the Progress Party programme seriously. It obviously doesn't make the Progress Party. What is contained in the programme of the Progress Party is that it is a liberalist party. That's the first sentence. It also states that they want a banking and credit market without political regulation and governance. We simply believe that that is the opposite of the Government's message, for the Government's message is that the financial market must be governed. The Progress Party has programmed that it should not be controlled. And not only that: the party cuts into the main instrument to oversee when we experience financial uncertainty, namely the credit supervision, which is to make sure that the banks are sound, which is to make sure that you can trust insurance companies, financial corporations, just so that people can be safe on the deposits, safe on the financial market. As for what the Government is doing, my article was just about it. We keep order in the Norwegian economy. We are pursuing an economic policy where more than ever we are working, and we are ensuring financial freedom so that the measures can be stepped up if there is a need to keep the wheels running in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e205	It may be tempting to remind the Prime Minister that the Right had proposals for increased credit supervision appropriations that the government parties voted against just before the summer. I want to challenge the government on another point. The Prime Minister says we are «well rusted». We may be well equipped in terms of financial regulation in our society, but it's only been a few days since the NHO launched and published the report on Norwegian competitiveness during this government. It shows that Norwegian competitiveness, which is the sustainability of the well-being of our society, the international competitiveness of our companies, has been exacerbated every year while Stoltenberg has been prime minister. Does the Prime Minister think that a deterioration in his competitiveness after he came to the table - after the last government had cleared up - is being well equipped for the challenges of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e212	The main objective of a country's competitiveness is whether companies succeed in selling their goods, succeed in increasing their value creation and succeed in recruiting people. Norwegian companies are doing better now than ever in Norway's history. Then it can't be very bad with the overall competitiveness. There may be single companies that are struggling, there may be changes we are facing, and there may be tougher months and years to come, but in the last three years, value creation, industrial production and employment have been higher than ever. It is the best and strongest expression that Norwegian companies compete better than before. Then we do not underestimate the possible problems that may come. That's what I warned against in my post: even though we now have a solid economy, we will also notice the economic waste winds. Norwegian enterprises must prepare for a tougher international market. Then it's good that we have a clean economy, that we have good credit supervision, and that we have a government and a Norwegian Bank that helps mitigate the adverse effects of an international financial turmoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e219	The Prime Minister declared with a broad pen that the Government is betting on the community. In this regard, it's interesting to note statements in the newspaper today from a professor who beats quite healthy in all directions -- at least I've experienced it -- namely Per Birdli. He accuses in his new book on the left of failing some basic community, namely the family, the community and the spiritual dimension of human life. The Prime Minister spoke nothing about this dimension of policy in his speech. He only stuck to the question of the power of money, which, of course, forces himself on the agenda today. Does he agree with Per Fugelli that further from Soria Moria must include a completely different focus on these basic communities, if we are to talk about sharing with the patos that the Prime Minister did in the main hall today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e226	The government is a member of the community. We are followers of the small communities, the close communities and the large communities, whether they're in the family, in the community, in the housing team, in the sports team, in the municipalities, in the nation or in the large global communities that we're trying to build through the UN. We simply believe in common as a method to solve both the close and the overcome major challenges. That is why, of course, we have also helped to strengthen the family through active child care policies, through more and cheaper kindergartens, through better leave arrangements and, not least, by increasing purchasing power so that the economy of many families with children has been strengthened. We're strengthening the community. It's the bet of time on volunteering. Cultural efforts have increased significantly. It is about strengthening the local communities in different neighbourhoods. So we're also for the close and the small communities, and we've strengthened them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e231	The Prime Minister announced in his speech worse times for all of us. I think, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is going to be true in that. When Prime Minister Stoltenberg resigned as Prime Minister in 2001, there was a situation in which interest rates were high and unemployment increased sharply. It was worse times for people. He took over the Prime Minister's chair in 2005 - with record low interest rates and sharply falling unemployment. Now he's warning us worse times, and that might indicate that we're moving towards a election where the Prime Minister leaves the Prime Minister's chair with increasing unemployment and high interest rates. Is it random, or is it about politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e241	First of all, I think the most important thing is that we now take into account that there is a lot of uncertainty. There is considerable uncertainty as to how deep and long-lasting the international crisis will be and how strong and strong it will be in the Norwegian economy. That is precisely the uncertainty we need to be prepared for. That is why it is important that we have freedom of action, follow along and step up measures if necessary. Secondly, when it comes to what people said and didn't say in election campaigns, I just notice that the then Bondevik II government parties said that Norwegian economy would be very bad if we were in government, we won the election. We won the election, and we're doing very well with the Norwegian economy. It just shows that what they say in election campaigns about the economy is -- what we're going to say -- at least deficient and an inadequate description of the actual situation. We have shown responsibility, cleanliness and long-term economic policy. It has contributed to two things - firstly, greater value creation and higher employment than ever, but it has also made us more robust to resist the kind of waste we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e248	First I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the Prime Minister uses Dagbladet as a witness of truth for the cause of the financial crisis. That's kind of interesting, because it's the prime minister who's an economist, not signed. The other thing that's also very interesting is that the Prime Minister uses his entire intervention to criticise the market. Now Norway has made thousands of billions in the market. In other words, the Prime Minister believes that at times when things are going very well, the market is very good for Norway, but when things go bad, the market is responsible. My question to the Prime Minister is, as he almost presents it as not having a regulation of the financial market in the United States: what are the regulations that Norway has that the United States does not have? The truth is that in the United States monetary policy and financial markets are more regulated than in Norway. This means that Norway operates under a more liberal system on the money market and on the financial market. What is the United States doing that makes the prime minister say that the market is almost free in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e257	The reply to the representative Sandberg shows that the Progress Party has too simple an understanding and too simple a view of the market. The market is not something you're either completely for or completely against. It's just liberals and communists who are either totally for or totally against - and both are completely wrong. What you're doing with the market is using it where it's suitable for use. And then you control it and you frame it, because it has to be controlled. That's why we say the market is a miserable master, but a good servant. That's the shade the Progress Party will never understand. That's why they repeat and repeat that they are a liberalist party. It's a completely wrong approach to the market, and that's what's been going on right now. As for the kind of regulation that we don't have in the United States, the most important thing is that we regulate all financial and credit institutions uniformly. In the United States, they have a very fragmented, fragmented system where large parts are out of regulation. So once again, the Norwegian model is infinitely much better than the liberalist model, and that's the lesson today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e267	It's pretty amazing to stand here and hear the country's prime minister actually say that it doesn't agree with him, means to run experiments, be irresponsible or simply not to have understood anything. I want to remind the Prime Minister that it is not that socialist policy suddenly became so much better because we got a financial crisis driven out of a poorly regulated United States. That's the situation. In the case of Norwegian financial life, there has been a broad consensus on the regulation. There has been a broad consensus on monetary and credit policy - perhaps with the exception of SV, which until they came into government was for a politically driven interest rate. And it should have gotten us politicians to sit and decide whether interest was going to go up or down. In addition, all the parties agreed when we proposed an inflation target in 2001 under Jens Stoltenberg's first government. It was all agreed - after the Progress Party had asked for that goal of monetary policy for many years. It was a pleasure that Jens Stoltenberg finally carried out the policy of the Progress Party. As far as regulation, credit supervision, etc. is concerned, there has also been a broad consensus on this, precisely because everyone recognises that the market must be made to function, an external framework must be in place to regulate it. There has never been any disagreement about that. I think that when we are in the midst of a time when many people are uncertain about what is going to happen to their economy, obligations at least to the country's top political leader, namely the Prime Minister, not to contribute to creating new uncertainty, but to helping to create peace, by clarifying what the Government intends to do for those who are going to experience this crisis - quickly. His only answer, despite my challenging him in the change of line, was order in the economy. It's a bunch, because people want to know what that means. To clarify what one intends to do to avoid more companies going bankrupt, to avoid more people losing their jobs, and to avoid too many coming into a personal debt crisis as a result of interest rising, that is the answer the Prime Minister should give. I record that he did not have time for that, because he used his speaking time to speak wrongly about the Progress Party. It's okay. We can take that. And this isn't sutring -- to take a little passion with the Minister of Finance. I would like to meet both her and the Prime Minister for debate on this at any time. But at least the government that is in office must take responsibility for the policy that they are pursuing. ‘The government’s goal is a new course for Norway’, it says in the throne. Then I want to ask the government: what new course? A new course in relation to the non-existent course that this government is taking now? Or is it that one has now spent three years of this ageing period trying to figure out what is going to be the government's course? Now there's only one year left for the election. For three years, the Government has had a majority. For three years the government has been able to do exactly what it would, and over the three years the government has become very unpopular. It goes by the name of the break-up government. The answer from the left-hand side on this-- what is it? The answer from the left is to accuse the Norwegian people of suing. So it's the people who are suspenseful because they're dissatisfied with the government! The people are staying in the richest country in the world! But is that what they're doing? I think it must seem striking to more than me that, yes, we live in one of the richest countries in the world, with one of the world's most well-filled wallets, and many of us have a liberal and good private economy, but what people point to is the tasks that politicians have taken on the responsibility for governing and that they cannot solve. That's what people are pointing at. People are pointing to the public debt. People point out that in the election campaign after election fighting, we discuss the deficiencies in health services and care for the elderly, without new answers coming from parties other than the Progress Party. People wonder that you can never afford enough money to give us a safe social life. The police don't have enough resources, it's more than properly documented. Norway is one of the worst countries in the world in terms of infrastructure. We are now passed by Albania - Albania! - in the case of kilometres of motorway. It's no wonder people start asking questions about this. Yeah, we live in a good country. Yeah, we're fine. But that people are in their full right when they point to the shortcomings that politicians are responsible for solving, yes, I think that's quite right. Then we'll discuss when we intend to solve them. It's possible that the Stoltenberg government is going to start solving them if they get renewed trust and can sit for four new years, but there are very few who have noticed that these challenges have been solved so far in this great period. So you're yelling at large amounts of money in health care. Hospitals are still running short, and patients are getting sick of it. When does the Government intend to solve the problem? There are still many of the older sick people in the country who do not have a sick home. The government's answer to that is that these are the local authorities' responsibilities, the government doesn't interfere. We are ranked as falling in quality in Norwegian school in several international surveys. When does the government intend to do anything about it? These are the answers we should have received from the Government, but I understand that we do not get until after the 2009 elections. The throne was completely exposed to visions from this government in terms of future energy policy. It's alarming. Norway is basically in a fantastic situation, where we can produce energy both to be self-sufficient and to export to Europe. What does the Government intend to do? One of the things the government promised the voters before the election was that there would be an industrial power regime that would make it easier for the country's production companies to meet rising energy prices. For the time being, there is not one response from the Government, neither when the matter comes, nor what it is going to contain - simply because you took your mouth too full. But then, at least you should come up with an answer to the unresolved energy balance. I'm asking for that answer. Nor can the government run from seeing the turmoil that has been taking place on financial markets for quite some time. This isn't something that happened just three weeks ago -- a lot of this we've been looking at for almost a year. The Minister of Finance's answer to this is to sit still and do nothing in relation to the management of the petroleum industry. The only government that's alerting the throne is a new review of the ethical guidelines. I think a lot of people out there are asking some questions about why the government thinks it's okay to just keep going with the same administration, when a significant number of billions of dollars have digested. According to the Prime Minister, once the Progress Party's response to this has been a slightly different regulation of administration and in addition to placing some of this gigantic surplus in assets, real estate investments in Norway in the form of better infrastructure, a better building stock, a competitive tax and tax system, it is only irresponsible. It's going to be too easy. We have requested answers from the Minister of Finance, and I record that she really does not want to talk about it. So I'll tip that much of the debate during the day is going to be about getting the most attention away from the government's lifting break and about what I register the government parties call chaos on the non-socialist side. Let me just remind you that, with the exception of the creation of the red-green government, which was supposed to be the majority project of the times, which was really going to make way for the well-being, which was really going to show that having a majority made it possible to do what you promised, but as everyone now sees it has become a proper place of stomach, we know that the election struggles have essentially been about the parties going to elections on what they want to do for the next four years, and that there is going to be a government after each election. It's also going to be after the 2009 elections. But we're going to have so much respect that it's the voters who are going to put together a new increase, that it's best to come up with a government that essentially reflects the majority of the population you get. The Progress Party has said that we are ready to accept that responsibility. We've invited the other three parties to such cooperation, and I'm absolutely sure there's going to be an answer to that after the election. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Advance Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber. We will come back to them in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e313	The proposals to which the representative Siv Jensen referred have been addressed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e318	We just heard the Chairman of the Advance Party conclude his speech by saying that the Progress Party is “ready” to take government power, and the representative Siv Jensen is therefore also ready to become Prime Minister. In these times, many people wonder what politicians and parties actually think about the financial turmoil that characterises the international money market and that also affects us. In fact, I think we deserve to know today what the Progress Party really means - the party that is ‘ready to’ to go to government. The programme shall include the following: ‘The Party considers that the money and credit markets should be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention.’ The question is: Does the Progress Party mean this, or do they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e330	The Progress Party believes that the monetary and credit policy we have in Norway today, which the Progress Party has been fighting for since the early 1980s, is the best. It is a monetary and credit policy that has an external framework that creates predictability for the financial sector and that has long lines both in relation to the development of price increases and other indicators. There is something quite different than the monetary policy that has been pursued in the United States, which we have never thought has been the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e335	The time has not come for any economic experiments. It has been noted that the Progress Party in the middle of the financial crisis is in favour of a casino liberalism, wherever the market should handle itself without regulation, defending its position of cutting off the credit supervision, which is to supervise our financial institutions, and continuing to distribute TV billions to almost everyone. Is it so that Siv Jensen prefers to keep his eyes open and hope that everything will go over? Or is the Progress Party prepared to modernise its economic policy and show that it is ready to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e340	I understand that the Right has now suddenly come to realize that some commentators believe that the Right can profit from creating uncertainty about the economic policy of the Progress Party, and I understand Jan Tore Sanner's need to do so. Let me make it clear: the policy of the Advance Party is firm. And in the policy of the Progress Party, there are no experiments. Like all other parties in this Chamber, the Progress Party will have the regulation of the financial markets that we already have. It's been unanimous. Jan Tore Sanner knows that too, since he and I have been sitting together in the Finance Committee for many years. There has been a broad consensus on monetary and credit policy. But that the Right now suddenly believes that there is no room to streamline the public sector, I had not dreamed about! The Progress Party will continue to propose cuts in public bureaucracy where we believe it is possible to operate more efficiently than you are doing today, without going beyond the tasks we have, namely regulating and supervising the businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e347	The most interesting thing in this debate is not really the Progress Party's somewhat curious - or should we call it the irresponsible or pointless - statements about the financial crisis. The most interesting thing about the line exchange we just heard is what we see in total bourgeois chaos. They do not agree on any of the issues of economic governance. When Jan Tore Sanner in the newspaper today goes out and says that the Right must be responsible for the economy if you are to agree on a majority platform, it says that the Right is not at all concerned that the Progress Party should have influence over this. And let me say: I really hope that it will be Right -- if it should go so bad -- that gets the responsibility for this, and not the Progress Party. But what's interesting is that now you have two parts that say you're going to try to form a government, try to agree, without having any substance or content in it. Will the representative Jensen agree that what we are now seeing is total civil chaos?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e355	So there was the first red-green attack. I already announced in my post that one was going to try to create an impression of chaos. I don't think there's any civil chaos. But I fully recognise that there is disagreement in a number of policy areas between the four parties, just as it was between SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre before they sat down and negotiated a political platform. That process should be respected, because it is through such processes that the batches combine into at least a common multiple that everyone can support. What we've seen, despite a Soria Moria statement, is an SV that has used more force to demonstrate on the outside of the Storting than to stand behind the policy that the Government has agreed on. To say that there has not been any conflict in the red-green government is with respect to report completely wrong. So I think maybe Djupedal should go a little bit more carefully in the doors when he tries to play up to a chaos on the bourgeois side that's not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e364	There has been an interest in the future Progress Party programme, but it is also interesting to read the current programme, and it has been quoted as follows: ‘The Party considers that the money and credit markets should be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention.’ Now that I have listened to the parliamentary leader of the party, I understand that this should be translated into not having a politically driven interest rate. Then at least I would recommend that you write the program for the next period a little bit easier, if that's what you actually mean in this case! So there's also a reason to ask, when you cut as much as 20 million. Is it for the purpose of ensuring that supervision spends less time on regulation and supervisory work and not more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e376	Maybe I should offer Hans Olav Syversen a job as a consultant for the program committee of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e381	Do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e386	That's nice! Let me just repeat once again that in the field of monetary and credit policy, the Progress Party has been promoting its proposals in this Chamber for many years, and we got it through in 2001. I remember that it got very broad support from all parties in this room. All right, let's cut. The Progress Party therefore believes that there is room for efficiency improvements in the Norwegian public administration. It is possible that the Christian People's Party believes that it is not necessary, but we believe that it is. It can be done, despite the fact that you want to have good oversight arrangements. The Progress Party has always been in charge of supervision, whether it is credit supervision or other types of supervision, simply because it is a necessary part of the interaction of a society. We have never suggested winding up the credit supervision - it almost sounds like this. But if you think there's no room to make the public sector more efficient, I think the parties should dry it out. We believe that the room is there, and we're going to continue to promote those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e395	History has shown that market correction provides the highest level of security, and security is the greatest form of freedom that people feel. But I want to take the Advance Party with the good. The member of the Jørund Rytman Finance Committee, in the Finanzavisen on 24 September, said: ‘The most important thing for us is to prevent the problems, inter alia by going through all the applicable laws and regulations in depth.’ After the great depression of the last century, the Glass-Steagall Act came in the United States in 1933, named after two central people who had made painful experiences. The law distinguished between activities that could be carried out by investment banks and by commercial banks. This law was repealed in the United States in 1999, an important contributing cause of the situation we are in, the lack of distinction between investment banks and commercial banks, commercial banks that have the necessary collateral. The centre party wants to go through these regulations in order to restore the division. Will the Progress Party support such work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e405	I think Lundtigen addresses something quite essential, namely, to look at what has caused this financial crisis to be triggered in full. There is no doubt that much of the reason for this is not a lack of regulation, but incorrect regulation. In our opinion, there has been a significant number of misadjustments in the United States, which is much of the cause of the crisis we are now seeing. The Central Party and the Advance Party must want to review it, but the most important thing is that the Americans themselves review it and put in place a robust framework that can help to prevent this type of crisis in the future. But that we're going to review our own law and regulation at any time to see if we can do it better, to see if we can make it simpler, more transparent, yes, that's for the Progress Party, and we can probably find out something about this together with the Center Party through the work of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e410	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e413	There are two important factors that have changed over the last year and affect how Norwegian policies and solutions can be over the coming year. The first is that the foreign policy situation has changed. At the beginning of this year, we saw that increasing food prices and increasing oil prices led to poorer framework conditions for people in poor countries, and that the improvements that had been made in terms of overall welfare for the poorest countries were eaten up by higher costs. Improvements under the Millennium Goals have disappeared, and it takes longer to achieve the targets. Today, we see this particularly in relation to the country where we provide the most assistance, namely Afghanistan, where the stabilisation of the situation is further exacerbated by the dramatic deterioration in the level of self-sufficiency and the increased need for aid on the humanitarian side. In addition, on the international arena in our neighbourhoods, we have seen a strongly changed Russia. In ours we saw a Russia that made a choice in which the international election observers did not participate. It was a reminder that democracy is not firmly founded on the criteria we would set for democracy. So we saw in August that the increased nationalism and self-confidence that Russia has gained with better economic times also made Russia invade for the first time in a long time, and after it became a democratically controlled country, one of its neighbouring countries. I believe that this is a subject that we should be looking at with concern. There is a development and change internationally that we cannot ignore when designing Norwegian policies. In this regard, I would like to stress some crucially important points that I feel the Government could say more clearly and more clearly about in the international community. We as countries do not accept that Russia defines other countries as being part of its sphere of interest. I don't think state councils or state secretaries should have seminars in Norwegian media where they understand Russia. I think they should give a clear signal that other countries are not part of a Russian sphere of interest, and not least we believe that each country has the right to define its own alliance and its own future. Of course, it should be for a small country like Norway that we stand upright and say that those elections also apply absolutely to all other countries that have elected parliaments and make their future choices. I do not always feel that the sum of signals and comments from government representatives shows that we are always as firm and clear on this. Yes, Norway is a neighbouring country to Russia, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't have a spine to stand up and say from. The other important relationship that has changed is, of course, the increased international financial turmoil and the aftermath that it will have, unless economic activity, unless demand is international. It will have a major impact on the policies that can be pursued in Norway and what we should have at the top of the priority list in the future. Yes, we're going to have good regulation of the financial market, yes, we're going to have regulation for depositors, we're going to make sure that there's enough money to make small and medium-sized enterprises over-credited enough to keep them running, and we need a long-term economic policy that provides security for individuals. Long-term economic policy is also concerned with ensuring that the competitiveness of Norway is good and that it actually improves. Yes, it is no bomb that the Right disagrees with the Progress Party in economic policy. There has been a core of the difference between us. We have disagreed with the extensive use of money, because we believe it would worsen the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and it would create larger and faster conversion requirements for Norwegian companies. It is not a conservative policy. That is why we are a liberal conservative party. That is why what we have in answer today can be a different answer than the Progress Party wants. In my opinion, the Prime Minister is lulling into rhetoric, assuming that everything is going well because it has been going well for three years. But it's just that in the three years we've had behind us, it's been good because it's been easy to control, because every year we've experienced a lot of international demand. But the goal of good governance in a country is whether it is well managed for the future. In 2002 and 2003, we had to make changes in this country because interest rates were too high and competitiveness was too weak, and we improved competitiveness in the following years. That is why this government came to the table. And those aren't my words, these are Arne Strand's words, and I've never perceived him as being a Right-Man. What we see is that you haven't used the years you've been sitting at the covered table to improve the well-being of the future. A lot of money has been chosen for measures that are not in line with, for example: the rules of action shall be maintained. Because if you remember the treatment of the rule of action -- some of us were present here then: there were clear assumptions for it. We were going to spend more money in the Norwegian economy because we were going to use them to invest for the future. We were going to spend more on transportation, we were going to spend more on education and skills and more on growth-promoting tax relief. Government has increased taxes - in the less-growth areas! And so the government has only used 10 pst. of the operating space for oil money to provide the basis for future value creation and well-being, while the previous government used 90 pst. It's the review that the NHO has done, that shows this. When I sometimes meet the Minister of Finance for debate, I hear her say such things as that we've now come up at a normal interest rate level, or that it's normal that after such a great growth period we get a period of decline. It can therefore be concluded that the Ministry of Finance has given us a finance minister who doesn't think she can make any difference in financial policy, because everything is just as normal. I think politicians can make a difference for the welfare of the future and also in fiscal policy. It's not just leaving the market around. It's about having more answers than what's a common multiple for this government, that's more money. These include: to ensure that the money comes in the right areas - which will generate growth in the future. But it's also about wiping out the things that make us more competitive, that we streamline and modernise, and that we have other alternatives. For is it that the government has made good use of the good years? What has it actually done to strengthen Norwegian school, Norwegian research, to secure Norwegian jobs and to facilitate the growth and creation of new jobs? What it has shown is that it has allergy to private solutions. It shows this when we hear today that there are 100 private kindergartens being closed down. We hear it's like this in child protection. So we know that while the previous government was able to implement both tax relief and 80,000 fewer in health queues, this government has increased taxes and got 40,000 more in health queues. So the government's mantra that you have to choose between well-being and tax relief has now proved to be wrong, if you make sure that the tax relief you give contributes to more value creation in the future. Then we have to have better solutions in several areas. I believe that in the use of money we have today, we could solve more problems. We could, for example, clearly contribute to a better health system. We have seen that we have increased health cows. And when we go into the question of why we get it, we see that many patients move between different levels of administration to get treatment. They're swing door spacers because you don't have the rehabilitation bet that Right has demanded, because you haven't been able to expand the medical treatment in the municipal relief services so that fewer people are moved from one side to the other. Then the Prime Minister says that we predicted that if this government joined, it would go so badly in the Norwegian economy. No, what we said was that if this government implements what it has said in this election campaign, it is going to go badly with the Norwegian economy. And if there's one thing this government has proven, it hasn't fulfilled its promises. Lift breakage is now listed in the newspaper after the newspaper. Of course, the hour of truth comes tomorrow when we see how far you have come. But we're going to be worse off over these three years than we would have been if we had conducted a policy where you were not only so concerned about spending money, but also about how the money was spent in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e442	The representative of Solberg said in his speech that there is no bomb that the Progress Party and the Right disagree with economic policy. No, it's not a bomb, but it's not debatable. This is of course an interesting question because today's right is the only party on the Stortinget that has said that it is willing to rule with the Advance Party. There are no other parties in this room who have said that they can imagine being in government with the Progress Party. And then this becomes a very important question. I wonder if the representative of Solberg does not agree that it is necessary to clarify before the elections what kind of economic policy a Right-wing Party government will lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e448	I have repeatedly explained from this pulpit, also on questions from Hill-Marta Solberg, that the Right will not sit in a government that does not conduct a responsible economic policy, which does not provide security for houses, homes and jobs. And I believe that we want opportunities to figure out with the Progress Party. But that means, of course, that the Progress Party must be aware that it is one of the very clear priorities of the Right Party, it is one of our clear spinal reflexes: we do not conduct such an economic policy. I can repeat it every time there's a string change in this room. You think you should cancel such an answer, but I have responded repeatedly. And then I register a funny little thing. I remember an SV that opposed monetary policy in Norway. I remember a central party that laid up its alternative state budgets with what they called a flexible use of the rule of action, which meant NOK 10-12 billion more than the rest of us thought was what was within the rule of action, in the previous opposition. I see that you managed to reach agreement. I believe that we should be able to reach an agreement between the non-socialist parties on a common policy in the economic field as well. But it is clear to the Right: we are not in a government that does not take responsibility for an economic policy that ensures security, which ensures that people's future is better and not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e457	For SV, it has been very important that the government should spend so much money on good care for the elderly, on kindergartens, on schools -- on important things -- that have been possible, while keeping order in the Norwegian economy. And we've done that. The debate sounds as if the Right really is in favour of a completely different policy. But if we look at what they voted for in Stortinget, we see that they have voted for the same big money. The challenge to Erna Solberg, who is also being heard today as if she thinks it should have been done something completely different, is: what will she do, for example. to get interest rates down to an abnormally low level again? It will mean billions of people in old age care, it will mean billions of people in school, and it will mean huge unemployment in Norway. Is that what we can expect if the Right would come to the Ministry of Finance again after the next election?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e464	On the right, every year we have had budgetary procedures, there are three things that must be done to ensure that interest rates do not grow more than they do in other European countries. This government has thus ensured that interest rates have gone from below the European average to above the European average. The three things we have said are: we have to do something fast for access to labour. We presented 31 points last year, with a number of measures that could have been implemented to increase the workforce, which had been pushed down. We have proposed that we have more savings incentives, so that private consumption does not go straight into the Norwegian economy, but people should be able to save. This government has done the opposite. After all, it has taken from people the tax incentive to save to retirement. The third thing is to spend a little less money. In fact, there are more answers in fiscal policy than SV seem to have, with heavy use of money. It is so imaginative that I am really surprised that it is SV who speaks like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e473	When you read the newspapers and hear the debate here, you can wonder what economic policy a possible co-operation regime between the Right and the Advance Party would lead to and what views they would have on the regulation of the world's financial markets. But I'll leave it in this round. Instead, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Solberg, on which welfare policy Right will go to elections. In the last edition of Minerva magazine, which is governed by central right-wing profiles, the social editor, Nils August Andresen, expresses that there is room for significant cuts in the welfare performance of the middle class. Andresen proposes, inter alia: to lower the ceiling for the payment of sickness benefits from social security from 6 G to 4 G, i.e. from 420000 and down to 280000 kroner according to the value of the day. Furthermore, he proposes to reduce the ceiling on the payment of unemployment benefits and maternity benefits accordingly. Does the representative of Solberg think that persons with incomes of between 300000 and 400000 DKK benefit from favourable welfare schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e482	No, I don't mean that. And none of these proposals were even promoted in the Right Screening, so it sounded a little new to me, and it sounded a little specific to find a student group that has a discussion about the welfare state, as an example of the Right Welfare Policy. Right-wing welfare policies include: to ensure that we have a health system that provides people with security to get help when they need it. It can be done, among other things: according to the fact that every year we have proposed more money for rehabilitation, because we believe that older ladies who break their thighs will have the opportunity not to sit at home in their living room and get locked up that break, so that they cannot move. Because it's a value in life that's more than just being operated on. You have voted against it, even though I have heard a lot of rhetoric from you that rehabilitation has been important. That is why we also suggest that we put particular emphasis on the medical care of the elderly, so that we do not move patients between doctors, but can move the doctors closer to the patients who are already there. If you want more information, you will find an introduction to the Right Welfare Policy on the Right's website, www.hoyre.no.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e491	I think this has been very clarifying, because the Right Leader confirms that they want to cooperate with the Progress Party, but says in the same vein that it is an ultimatum that it is Right's economic policy that should take the lead. This is in stark contradiction to what Siv Jensen says, that there should first be a choice, and then there is the relationship between the parties that will decide what will be the economic policy or policy in the various areas. I hope that the Right Leader can repeat what is the reality of its contents, that the Progress Party must give up its economic policy at all in order to get a chance to cooperate with the Right, which in turn means that all the promises of the Progress Party for more money for all good purposes are really zero worlds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e498	I have replied that the Right does not sit in a government that is not going to conduct a responsible economic policy. We're not going to touch what I call the Willochske spinal reflex to the Right, namely that the security of the house, home and work, making sure that people can pay their bills next month, is a governing standard for how we conduct our economic policies. It is so important that there must be other parties who will cooperate with the Right, aware of is a prerequisite for the Right to enter into a Government. But then I want to say, if I'm going to ask all the same questions, it's going to be fun next year every time the Central Party adopts something at its national meeting about its program - how the Workers' Party deals with it, or how SV does it. Both parties have now launched that they want higher taxes. Yes, I heard that the leader of the Center Party also wanted a slightly more flexible rule of action, a slightly more flexible use of oil money. All parties are going to have their own programs. But some things are important. Security for people's homes, security for people to pay the bills and not to contribute to stronger migration demands in our society than we can bear, that's important for the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e505	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e508	«Money, money, money/always sunny/in the rich man's world» sings the hardworking tavern Donna in the film musical and the cash register «Mama Mia!». In the past dramatic months, it has been shown that there is not always sunshine in the economy, either for the rich or for the people most. A lot of people now ask the question: what happens in the next few weeks, months and the first few years of my job, with interest rates, with mortgage payments, etc.? It is important to take this uncertainty seriously. It becomes too passive by the Government to say that this must be settled by the US authorities. It's just as wrong to blow people's feelings of uncertainty as it's going to be to stir up a crisis mood. People aren't stupid. They understand, of course, that the Norwegian Finance Minister and other Norwegian politicians have limited influence on share prices and US borrowing rates. They know well that Norway is not a planet of its own, and that what happens in the markets outside the world is infecting our own country and our own businesses. But they still ask, what can our elected representatives and our government do with the means they actually have to get out of this and through it in a good way? As always, those who already have the weakest economy are the most vulnerable. Therefore, the Government now needs to spend time renewing and strengthening important social policy measures. The housing code needs to be improved. There needs to be a far greater focus on preventing and resolving the situation of victims of debt. And action must be taken to ensure that those groups which traditionally earn the highest debt - families with young children and students - are not forced to start their professional life with a rather unmanageable debt burden. The crisis in financial markets makes it clear to many that culture of greed and profit does not provide a stable basis for building society. We have also seen the impact of this culture in Norway through, for example: The Terra scandal and the financial house Acta's raw sales of lubes and guaranteed - by contrast - lossful products to people who pride themselves on them. More than ever before in this great age, it is important that we, as elected representatives, highlight the values that can form the counterweight of materialism and the pursuit of money. Professor of Social Economy at NHH Ola Gryten said this in an interview last week: ‘History has shown that we convert to values other than those represented by the money market when such crises occur. What we now experience shows that money is not to be trusted. I think a lot of people will look around for other values, so this might be a positive outcome for a lot of people." Our quality of life must be based on far safer and broader foundations, such as the families, the close communities, community and volunteering, a humane environment - and the responsibility we have for the welfare and well-being of our fellow human beings. These are values that we can't take for granted, but that we have to fight offensively also in this room. And, at the crossroads: In this piece, then, the leader of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbrätten and Professor Per Fugelli, are in complete agreement that this government is thinking too much of the communities of the public sector, and too little of the communities of the voluntary and private sector. The sitting government went to the covered table with order in the Norwegian economy. Nevertheless, the breakage of the promises is many. So far, it has been tried to cover up by blaming the previous government. Some government councils have been here for questioning hours and defending themselves by blaming the previous government. Now you try to shift your attention away from what you're actually doing now, and to what you're going to do after the next choice, if you get renewed trust. That's the new technique. But this government has few valid excuses. It has a majority for all its proposals in Stortinget, if it will, and it has had strong economic co-winds so far. They didn't have to negotiate, said the Prime Minister, as they boarded, they could just act. The poverty was to be abolished with a pen stroke. It was about will. Today, unfortunately, we have to state that this government has been most concerned with combating wealth, and less concerned about getting what it promised to do in combating poverty. It was supposed to shine from the care of the elderly, but still runs municipalities and health companies ping ping-pong games with older people. Coats and corridors are still being used for sick people who need to be calm. Voluntary activities are squandered by bidding rounds and red tape, and they have not yet seen the results of the commitments to review an unfair VAT system, a system that requires VAT to be paid on voluntary work in that country. But the right one should be right. There's been a huge increase for the kindergartens, even if there was a postage. But what about the other promises to the families of children? Where has it been of the increased paperwork? Where has it become of self-sufficiency for fathers? Where has there been an increase in birth fees for students and others who have not earned their rights in the labour market? Where has it been made by the commitment to family protection? Couples who want help from family protection are today referred to up to half a year's waiting time before they get at all call time and guidance. Then the crisis is often a fact. And where has it been made of the appropriations to prevent cuts in the state child protection? To the extent that the Government has responded to these challenges, there have been some shoulder movements. If money is to be invested in this, it must be paid in full by the parents themselves, you must know, by removing the cash support. Then the real choice of parents will also be removed. Many parents experience that the government stamps their choice of home care as something less valuable. Yes, it seems that anything but institutional care can be harmful to the development of children. We cannot premise those we believe have chosen incorrectly, said Jens Stoltenberg on one occasion. I think we're seeing a gruesome uprising against such a demeaning attitude toward the choices of families' lives. The Christian People's Party will, for its part, be defending flexibility and the right to vote, even for those who are not among the most economically privileged in this country. The Christian People's Party took the initiative to work with the government parties on concrete and committed ambitions in relation to the care of the elderly in the years ahead. We didn't give up until we got to an old age settlement. But we haven't heard a split word about the follow-up to the conciliation of the elderly, either in the throne or in the Prime Minister's posts here in the main hall today. We're asking for that. For it is actually the mention of most of the other similarities and the follow-up of them in the Common Era - except for the Ancient Agreement, Prime Minister! Are the older ones forgotten? Most important to us is that the guarantee of a decent treatment became a reality for the elderly and their relatives. Stronger and more binding rights for individuals must go hand in hand with transfers to municipalities. I've said it before and I'd like to repeat it: the government showed very good and promising paces at the beginning of this period, with an increased bet on the municipalities. It was absolutely necessary, it was right, and we supported it. But the follow-up has not been as good, and now we see the verdict from the Union and the KS. People working in municipalities don't recognize themselves in this very up-to-date description of all the billions that have gone to the municipal sector. What they're experiencing is that they have to cut. They have to cut off the things that the government says are priority -- the youngest and the oldest. Hospitals have priority tasks, such as child and youth psychiatry, and they do not yet know whether or not they will be compensated for their salary. When the government of tomorrow will surely brag the unhindered billions of municipalities in this period, will I just encourage it to ask a simple control question: do they feel that the promises of a qualitatively better care for the elderly are being kept? Towards the end of this ageing period, we have to note that the government has used its power of action on the wrong issues. An important keyword is the eagerness to remove the K in Norwegian society - the K for Christianity in CRL - followed up by new purpose paragraphs and new textbooks, where even the Christian era has been removed. The government has made the K a problem instead of looking at the Christian cultural heritage as a great capital that our generation also needs to pass on to the next generation. If we look beyond our own country, we're facing challenges that can do most of the things we're discussing here in the Chamber, pretty small. Extreme poverty and extreme weather represent two of the greatest ethical challenges of our time. It is possible to solve these challenges in our generation. We have the means if we have the will. As a rich oil nation, Norway has a particular moral responsibility to contribute to development, to combat poverty and to meet climate challenges. The government has given clear signals that when the budget is presented tomorrow, it will ensure that the target of 1 pst. of gross national income for international assistance is reached. We, on the part of the Christian People's Party, would then congratulate them on that. As you know, we proposed this for the current year's budget. We're looking at the number 1 pst. not as a final result, but as an intermediate. But we are in no way satisfied that the Government within this seems to stop the escalation of aid for health and education purposes. During this period, the government has sought a wider majority of major reforms than its own government base. The Christian People's Party has strongly contributed to the similarities between climate, retirement, state/church, older people and health schools. We need continued cooperation on necessary and new steps in Norwegian policy. We need to get a new and better way of financing large-scale transport projects, which do not make them dependent on year-to-year appropriations in Stortinget, and we need to get a new grip on hospital reform. In another famous ABBA-slayer from the «Mama Mia!» musical one has the concept: «how can I carry on?» I don't know to what extent there is allong at the government conferences, but I know that the question of «how can I carry on?» is probably far ahead in the pancakes of current members of the government. I must regret and say that the Christian People's Party cannot help answering the question of how the Government will proceed, but we will continue to cooperate on a case-by-case basis with our position in the centre of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e552	I would first like to say how pleased I am that the Christian People's Party will be positive for further cooperation. I think that the next choice, like the previous choice, will be about which way Norway should go - if we're going to continue building up the public sector, better him and make him better for our citizens, or if we're going to bet on large tax havens and massive privatisation, as the Right and Advance Party both suggest and want. I have understood the Christian People's Party to be a party that traditionally wants to bet on community and to bet on public services. I also mean the post today indicates that. The Christian People's Party is a party that has traditionally been close to the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, I must say that I have unfortunately experienced that the Christian People's Party has some times ended up in bad company. I think that was the case in the previous government, where one saw that a very large part of the money that was available went to tax havens instead of building public welfare. My question is: What side does the Christian People's Party stand on in the conflict between tax relief/privatisation and the development of wider public welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e560	Olav Aksensen has been involved in politics for so long that he should know the history of the Christian People's Party and know that this party has not only been involved in major social reforms, but has actually produced major social reforms in this country, as the popular-reform and, most recently, the NAV reform, which this government has boasted, but which is a real-born child of a government and a leadership Christian People's Party gave. The Christian People's Party is going to be faithful to this its social mission, and we have shown that in cooperation with other parties we can get through to it. What is regrettable is that the Workers' Party does not understand that by its line of confrontation with the Christian People's Party in some of our most important valuable things, they are pushing away the Christian People's Party. Although we agree on many social policy issues, we collide on issues related to school, volunteering and family policy. I'm the first to regret that, but it's sadly a sad fact at the end of this big time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e567	The representative of the Højbrätten is concerned with people's woe and well. It's also this Government, and that's also SV. I think that when I'm no longer a giant representative, I'll think back and I'll be glad to have been involved in proposals and changes that have been adopted that are important to people. I believe that the representative Højbråten will think back on the smoking law with joy. It is a successful change in the law that has meant too many, and I hope the representative will remember that it was SV who secured the majority of the law change. For my part, I would like to rejoice in 2004 together with Siri Hall Arnøy to have promoted SV's bill on common marriage law, which was adopted in the spring session. There is also a change in the law that has meant too many. It is a victory for love, and for children's rights, and a long step forward towards a society that does not discriminate because of sexual orientation. I would like to ask the representative whether the Christian People's Party will accept common marriage law or promote amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e578	It may be time for someone to take stock of what they've been involved in politics, and what's behind it. For my part, I am most concerned about what lies ahead. I think it's very important that we now have a policy that promises the small communities, that the family represents -- that mother and father and children represent. It will be a major issue for the Christian People's Party. We fought with beaks and claws against the marriage law proposed by the Government, because we believe that it blows the nucleus that mother and father and children represent -- not because we do not accept other family forms, but because we believe that society should, as a general rule, have the traditional and classic view of marriage as between man and woman. That vision is not going to change if there's going to be a choice between them. That vision will stand for the Christian People's Party even in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e583	In the spring, Lars Sponheim was out and said that the Left was alone again in the centre, and stamped further on the Christian People's Party for having become an extreme Christian conservative party with which it was not possible to cooperate. I disagree with the claim, and I think there are several parties in the center, i.e. three parties. There was a lot of good center policy in your post. You promised local economy, you promised increased assistance, you promised distribution, and you spoke against the power of money in good countercultural tradition. It was a good post in many ways. So the Center Party and the Christian People's Party agree. But which parties disagree with the anti-cultural policy in terms of monetary power? Which parties are the most skeptical to have a more active distribution policy? What are the parties that have been most sceptical about increasing aid? It's precisely the parties that the representative Højbråten says he wants to join the government. So what's left? Is it just old feelings, or is there any political reality at all that suggests that the Christian People's Party should go to the right in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e588	The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, has observed quite correctly. The Christian People's Party is a centre party, and we've put great emphasis on this period to make it clear that we are, in fact, by handing out to the other center parties, also to the Center Party, which unfortunately has locked itself into the red-green government option for a new period. I believe that the political centre exists even though the centre parties have chosen slightly different directions for their cooperation. But I am absolutely convinced that in the future we can also find interesting cooperation solutions between the centre parties when we get refurbished a little in Norwegian policy. Right now, the Christian People's Party must focus on the center that will cooperate with us, and that is the Left. Lars Sponheim expresses himself quite pointedly in many directions at any time, and I can't relate to all of his point formulations, then I wouldn't have done anything else. But I'm very sure that the Left and Christian People's Party, despite the differences in the parties, can work together on a cooperation based on the centre and with the centre of gravity in the next period. And it's not going to be a policy that conflicts with what I said from the main hall here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e593	Many in SV jumped in the chair when they heard that the Højbräten and the Christian People's Party have designated SV as the main opponent in the 2009 election campaign, and that is because many, and especially the municipalities, have collaborated with the Christian People's Party for many years on very important issues. Now I register that the Højbrätt is also concerned about having Left as its partner, i.e. a small party, and then he picks out SV as the main opponent. So the slope is moving among the small parts, it's perfectly clear. The fact that the Højbrätt and the Christian People's Party have taken sides, it seems to me that when we dealt with the law on repatriation, where the Christian People's Party voted against the whole law, one of the most important things - in my opinion the very most important thing - the Stortinget has dealt with. That was a very good decision. The Christian People's Party voted against continuing the system of repatriation. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party has made a choice, that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that are their partners after the 2009 elections, and that they are in a way leaving further cooperation with the Red-Greens?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e600	We have never started any government cooperation with the red-greens or pointed out that this is our government option. So in that way, there's nothing new when I say that we want to bet on a collaboration based on the center, and with the center and the right as we had in the previous period. When SV is designated as a main challenger, it is because we feel that the Swedish Government has helped to drag the Workers' Party and the Centre from the Christian People's Party community on important social, value and foreign policy issues. But when that's said, I would also like to use the opportunity to state that the Christian People's Party supported large parts of the bill that the Government promoted about repatriation, but we disagreed that there should be similarities between public ownership and national ownership. We wanted to give industry the opportunity to continue the fall-back scheme they had asked for, and I regret that it did not get a majority, because I think it would have helped to secure many thousands of industrial jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e607	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt broadcast to the Norwegian people earlier today that he would be even clearer than the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, on the question of a new government. That is indeed an offensive view. We have long witnessed the fact that the Right, with which the Christian People's Party joined the government from 2001 to 2005, keeps the door open for several government options on the civil side. Right will reign with the Progress Party in a broad civil government. The summit earlier today claimed that he rejected both Stoltenberg and Jensen as prime minister after the election next fall. When there are several alternatives on the civil side and the Right wants to cooperate with and bet on at least two horses, is my question the following: Is it trustworthy - something the High Commissioner in parliamentary terms attaches great importance to - that the largest party with which the Christian People's Party will definitely cooperate has such a twist in the issue of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e614	I note that there is a considerable unrest and impatience with the red-green government, and that after all the sun brands we will have a minority government after the 2009 elections. It's not an accident for the country. Minor governments have served this country well, and it has the advantage that they like to be a little more humiliated, both to the Greatness and to the people. I believe that, according to the polls of the last year, it is that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left is the largest constellation, if one looks at the Labour Party alone or the Advance Party alone, and I therefore believe that it is most likely and also a politically very robust government option, we have seen that in the past. It's probably going to come to the right as well. But they'll answer for themselves. I have serious problems at least to imagine that the Right goes into the government alone with a Progress Party that is more than twice their size. I don't think that's going to happen. Then both the representative Sandal and I will see what the fasit will be when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e624	There is no doubt that our country is facing major challenges, not least underlined by the crisis and the seriousness of the Prime Minister's intervention on us today. Political leadership is required to go into what we in the Left call the low-carbon society, which can ensure a sustainable globe for our children and grandchildren. Political leadership is required on the way forward in the knowledge society, ensuring innovation and well-being for new generations in what is one of the most expensive countries in the world. We have to take into account demographic changes that will dramatically change the balance between the number of workers and the number who will live on social security. We also need to safeguard and strengthen fundamental values such as tolerance, diversity and justice in a society where hostility between people is still nudged. And we're going to meet the ongoing financial crisis in a way that provides the least possible damage and the best possible protection against the return of global economy from a lack of global policy. So it's always like there's some big words in the throne. Some have stuck to the government’s early start, namely that the government has a target of ‘a new course for Norway’, and that it is not a report of what the price change has passed after three years. I don't want to hesitate about it, but say quite clearly: there is a need for a new course for Norway. In particular, climate and environmental policies. The government repeats that Norway will be a leading country in this area, but there is little evidence that this is being taken seriously enough. In fact, the Prime Minister has recently been enthusiastically travelling abroad with rainforest billions to the Amazon - that's good, that's important, and it has Left's support - but what if the Prime Minister and the rest of the Government had held the pressure and also the enthusiasm of home climate policy in the same way? A year ago, when we were here during the throne debate, that was the big theme. Everybody talked about it out there. Now all of a sudden this is almost no longer the topic. If that's what's really our big crisis, we all, not least the government, have a responsibility for telling us what's the most important crisis and challenge we're facing in these times as well. The pressure must be held up. Most people in their daily lives, municipalities, businesses -- yes, everyone -- are ready to translate increased environmental awareness into action. But they are not inspired by a government that goes ahead and shows the way. Deceptiveness and confusion characterize the Government more than offensive will and political leadership. Research, alternative energy, the management of gas power stations that are so far a scandal, railway investment and other important measures that can point forward and create enthusiasm and a spirit of action in society. At all, one must be able to say that this ageing period has been so far the period of missed possibilities. The government came to the covered table, financially, and has had the spaces of action of the times. Only from 2005 to this year rose 4 pst. The return on the oil fund from 60 billion to 94 billion kroner, and the tax revenue from 510 billion to 676 billion kroner. Nevertheless, we feel that the main point of the Government in almost all debates - after three years of responsibility, a purely majority in the Grand Duchy and an unparalleled economic growth - is to boast that they have granted more money for different purposes than the previous government did. It was supposed to be missing. Something else would be practically impossible, with so much money available. But this shows in a nutshell the government's problem: its internal split, its inability to prioritize, to take great promise, to look forward to it. Instead, structural conservatism and internal dragonfights have taken up all the room for action, prepared all the budgets and put a lid on the dynamics that could have shaped the country if you had done what the prime minister said last year: ‘We usually get the good solutions if those who have the majority listen to more than themselves.’ And the government has, in certain areas, listened to others but themselves--in the great comparisons. That's good, and that appreciates the left. But the government could do even more of that, because the power of the better arguments of the many who could contribute to better solutions has had to give way to the consideration of the internal cohesion of the Government and weaken the balance of power. The result after the boom period, with the economic space of time on the part of the state, is still dissatisfied with unsolved tasks - in the municipalities, in health care, in education and research. The world's most expensive country has become even more expensive, because no action has been taken that makes us better equipped to meet the major challenges ahead. We have a government that administers, not a government that takes political leadership. Big words from Soria Moria, from the Prime Minister's climate at the Labour Party National Meeting in 2007 and from the census contrast with what is actually being done, whether the theme is environment, poverty, elderly care or industrial policy. If I were to take only one maximum sentence from the speech of the year, I would like to mention it on ‘total management of the Norwegian Sea’ and on ‘setting an ecological framework for the activities in the marine areas, so that the overall impact does not exceed the environmental sustainability’. If the Government were to take this seriously, the conclusion would be clear: say yes to the Left's proposal on the permanent protection of the most vulnerable areas of fish growth - outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. As a society, we're luckier off than most people. It also enables us to get through the existing financial crisis in a way that will not cause too much harm to society and to individuals. The most crucial thing now is that the government tomorrow will present a government budget that will provide the governor with the basis for saying that the interest rate peak has been reached, and that from here the interest rates will be downwards. Otherwise, the debate on the financial crisis has shown that ideological divisions exist in politics, and underlined why the Left believes it is best that the extreme parties remain protesting salt on the outside side of power, not within. I join in the words of the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy: "The world shall be built by law." For the Left, it is clear that a functioning market economy must have legal framework and official control, and that global economy must be followed up by global policies for the economy to function according to its intentions. Sociists who believe that the financial crisis is the collapse of the market economy are as much on earth as the liberals who use the opportunity to say that all rules should be removed. It is in the balance between market and governance and with a global set of rules that everyone has to deal with, that the whole world can reap the fruits of market economy freedom and dynamism. The global economy is fundamentally good, but the absence of a balancing global policy is a huge problem. It is therefore regrettable that world leaders have not yet succeeded in setting up a new WTO agreement. The WTO is about global policy, and that is what the world needs. In recent years, the world’s most expensive country has become even more expensive, not least the labour force, which represents 85 pst. of our national wealth. What are we doing to ensure innovation, well-being and sustainability in such a situation - faced with a recession? Conversion also offers new opportunities, a healthier economy and healthier attitudes. We are entering an even clearer knowledge and service economy, and it underlines even more strongly than before that research needs to be prioritised more than the government in place has done. The return on increased research efforts is formidable, and without being at the height of new knowledge, we are also falling back as a welfare society. Offensive commitment to the development of new knowledge and smarter methods is the basis for the transition from environmentally harmful societies to the low-carbon society and for the continuous budding of new businesses and jobs. When this, along with public sector conversion, is neglected, it makes us more vulnerable, not more robust to meet the future. The government has shown us all the things that many of us already knew: it doesn't solve the problems of throwing new money into increasingly demanding public waste. On the contrary, it's only more expensive if you don't make things smarter at the same time. After the regional reform – of course – went into the sink, the Left hopes that it will once again focus on strengthening local democracy and on local problem solving through stronger and larger municipalities. The problems in the health sector as well as in municipal care for the elderly are largely related to the unclear interfaces between the country and the municipality. The interaction reform suggests that the Council of State has understood this, but it remains to be seen what will result from another investigation round. The Prime Minister talks a lot about values and the direction society takes. The left is clear that the government's direction is wrong in very many areas, even when the values are good enough. The Soria Moria declaration is very distant from the actual results in many key areas: the fight against poverty has not reached much longer in the last three years, environmental and climate policies are too slow, the number of entrepreneurs and new small businesses have fallen despite the boom in economics, research and higher education, and the renewal has stopped. The change from the Ministry of Modernisation to the Ministry of Renewal is about the only result on that front. Finally, it is true that the opposition is split and that there is no cumulative government option for the sitting person. There is also no need for a new large-scale majority rule. What we need is a vast majority and a government that can address the major challenges nationally and internationally, which can show the way for Knowledge Norway, Low Emission Norway and an Innovation Norway, which can also give good lives to our descendants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e674	The left leader has our pattern-worthy clears both today and before when he has established that it is totally out of date to cooperate with the Advance Party. In addition, Sponheim has made several perfectly clear ultimatums, now the last about oil policy, which in reality means that one says no to cooperate with the Right. In addition to this, the Christian People's Party has got a real plank, which can hardly be called a cooperative white. Personally, I find it difficult to see Sponheim lead me as a minister of cooperation in a new civil government. What we've got less about, however, is what kind of cooperation the left can think about in the next period. Or is it so that the Left has already now intended to be the Greatness's answer to the Lonely Rider--lonely, but just?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e681	At least fair! What Aksensen is right is that there is one year left for the elections, and we should have a political debate in Norway that shows the differences. That's good. But I underline, and it's not least the connection with that persuasion debate almost just about a year ago, that is, the very clarification of the political distance between the Left and the Progress Party. I'd like to repeat here: it's stuck. It is about taking the Advance Party seriously, and it is about political realities. That means that the government option Left will go to elections on, is a minority government of the parties from the Bondevik II government-- one could of course dream of a center government again, but it's probably all in Soria Moria, would be a belief. It will work for the left again. I am pleased that this debate has shown so far that the Right has begun a turbulent in the grey zone between the Right and the Advance Party. It's the only new and eye-catching so far in this persuasion debate. I am happy to hear more about that beyond the day. In this way, this seems to be a more pleasant day than I have seen for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e690	The progress party is used to having many labels stamped on it, and ‘irresponsible’ is something we have become accustomed to living with. Our voters have also become used to living with it. But the Left Sponheim takes this a step further, and says in Political Quarter today that the Left will only support a decent bourgeois government. Of course, this option includes the 5 pst. Party Left. This isn't the first time the Left will judge the others. In 2001 - in the name of propriety - the Left took over the government power, despite the fact that the voters chose particularly indecently at the election. Does the representative Sponheim think that he is a more decent person than the thousands of elected representatives of the People's Party? To take it a little further, does the representative Sponheim think that he is a more decent person than I am, or will he use other political terms for the future when we discuss politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e695	It was violent. I just want to remind you that we are in a political assembly where we are discussing politics. I've never experienced anything in this room other than that we respect each other as human beings, and that we take each other's positions seriously. I'm going to do that. That's why I tell you that the representative Tybring-Gjedde and I fundamentally disagree on some very fundamental questions for me, among other things. the view of other people, the colour of the skin, the diversity, the culture of a society. That's what decent bourgeois policy is all about, and that's what I'm putting in a decent bourgeois government. I have registered this summer that the leader of the Progress Party has made statements -- I think it was from the United States when one of the parties had their convention -- and I was startled at the points of view that came up. And I would like to stress: the left can only be in government with parties that have what I would call the bourgeois, diverse and positive view of people with different backgrounds, culture and lay living together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e702	For 99 years, Norway has had a fall-back scheme that has ensured that ownership of the hydropower and of all developed waterfalls falls back to the state. It was with Left's insistence and foresight that this system was adopted in 1909. The objections were many and strong also at that time. Nevertheless, Gunnar Knudsen asked cabinet questions to prevent a postponement decision. In this context, what we are asking are questions about today's Left's management of the fall-back institution. Norway's head of negotiation in the case of repatriation, Professor Fredrik Sejersted, Head of the Centre for European Law at the University of Oslo, has stated that the citizens' proposals for vulnerable cases can - and I quote - ‘bring the whole of the EEA legal model, because it would weaken the principle of consistent public ownership’. Will the Left now accept the decisions that have been taken in the matter and help to secure the fall-back, or will the Left in the margin with the Advance Party and the Right Old with the case and mane for rematch?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e711	It's with a little wonder I hear this line, because there can't have been any doubt during the whole treatment that the Left is for a relapse, as we were the time we went in the breeze to introduce it, and stood by it now. We also voted at the end of the day to introduce the repatriation scheme. But then we were busy finding a transition that allows businesses, value creation and investment to be cared for. We chose to do that by finding the interface that's known, and the opposition that's opposed to a home fall, that's to create a common intersection of when a home fall takes place. This would allow several large Norwegian companies to secure investments. In our opinion, this would have been possible. I read with wonder in the newspapers that the ESA president says that he never received any request from the Government to try this scheme, like industry, the community and the opposition to which the opposition was in favour. It's alarming, and so there's no claim that there wasn't a solution that was completely combinable in dealing with the fall-back institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e716	In the last few years under Sponheim's leadership, the left has moved clearly in the right-hand direction. Correction of market forces through an active country in industrial policy, concession laws and a tax system that limits the growth of the private consumption financed by loans are examples of what the Left has seen as a red-green policy that goes in the wrong direction. For the Central Party, the security of people who have nothing extra to walk with is the greatest form of social organization for people's freedom. The slogan of the centre party ‘growth is no longer to be consumed, but to manage better’ is now given a new impetus, because it is a wise and decent attitude both for land and for families. The market-liberalist financial crisis, inter alia: based on speculation bonuses to investment bank managers has failed. The big bill is coming. Who's going to pay? Will the Left of Sponheim now move towards stronger Community solutions, the Left of Gunnar Knudsen, a new course for the Left of the Day?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e728	With one minute I'll start by saying that the Left has always belonged to a non-socialist centre in Gunnar Knudsen's time, in Castberg's time and in present time. This means that one is able to find good solutions, cooperate with the Workers' Party on a lot of good Community policies and set limits on what tax laws can do with our communities, and, on the other hand, cooperate with other non-socialist parties, historically almost always the Centre, on how society, consisting of individual businesses, individuals and families, can be built from below. This combination is the center. This combination also belongs to the Center Party. I learned once by a former center party leader, Anne Enger, that the very litmus test at the center is that you should sit down so that you are able to cooperate on two sides of the policy. It does the left. Unfortunately, the Center Party doesn't do it in the daytime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e733	The representative Sponheim is one of the Norwegian party leaders who have the longest experience in the chair. He has in his act as a party leader taking the goal of acting both pointedly and clearly with his political adversities. I have to compliment Sponheim that he has a great deal of happiness in that strategy. It must therefore be frustrating for the representative Sponheim to learn that the largest party with which he wants to cooperate in government is characterized by a disquieting perception, by a twin - to stay in his left vocabulary. Right still sees cooperation with the Progress Party or cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party as a possibility. My question must therefore be: Is the representative Sponheim comfortable with the unclear situation of the fact that the Right still exists, less than one year before the fallout, bets on two horses in the government question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e741	No, I'm not comfortable with that. I haven't been in the last few years either, I'd say, maybe especially in the last year, because we're approaching choices. And I've been pretty clear about expressing it. In my opinion, there must be an ideological and political distance between the Progress Party and the Right. Not least in these days, as we have read and heard a lot about Kåre Willoch's Right, that distance must be clear. I had long hoped that the Right would tell about and mark this distance. I see approaches that go in such a direction at the beginning of this magnification session. I'm glad. I think it would have strengthened the current decent bourgeois alternatives that the three former Bondevik II parties had run the common front against the election and marked the distance from the Advance Party. I'm still hoping for that. Otherwise, I can promise the representative Sandal that I will still - even if I start to become an old party leader - try to be as clear as I can be. Not least after spending a great summer up under Hardangerjøkulen, where I went talking to myself, there might be a lot of interesting political outings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e748	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e751	Through strong communities, we create more well-being, more justice and social cohesion. Over the last three years, the large amount of money has been spent on the heavy welfare sectors — health, kindergartens, care for the elderly and education. The local economy has been strengthened by just under $20 billion. This has produced results: more than 10,000 new year-olds in care and care and many thousands of new kindergartens. Employment has increased by about 200,000, and unemployment is halved. For the Workers' Party, justice and social cohesion are at the heart of the policy. The red-green government has implemented important measures to create more social cohesion. The most important thing is that unemployment is greatly reduced. A job to go to is the most crucial thing to keep people away from poverty. The sharp increase in the minimum pension rate is another measure to reduce poverty. The same is true of young people who get increased social security benefits. The figures show that fewer are dependent on social assistance today. We're on the right track. We will continue the fight for social cohesion - both through fiscal policy, housing policy, active labour market policy and through the further stepping up of minimum pensions. The international financial turmoil and the financial crisis in the United States have marked the last few weeks, and of course this has also marked today's debate on the throne. Now that American financial institutions have received a gigantic rescue package from the authorities, market liberalism is shaken in its foundations. Of course, many people wonder how this will turn out in the Norwegian economy, and what it will mean for the individual. In the global economy, no one gets untouched, neither do we. Interest rates are being pushed up, banks are becoming more restrictive on lending, and for some enterprises the financial turmoil has already led to a reduction in demand, and there are notices of permissiveness. Fortunately, however, there are fundamental differences in the Norwegian and American economies, and not least in the economic policies pursued. We have a solid economy with profits on the state budget, and we have a responsible budgetary policy that gives us freedom of action. The Norwegian model, where we do not leave everything to the market, but have political will for necessary regulation and control of financial markets too, ensures us against American conditions. The international financial turmoil is, in fact, a complete fall in the policy of the Progress Party at home: irresponsible money consumption, we have seen it over several years, the financial market will be allowed to control itself, it says at least in the programme, the control mechanisms are superfluous, and it has been documented by cutbacks in the credit supervision. This is the last plenary debate in Stortinget before next year's election. We're going to meet an exciting political year. Both in this hall and outside among the voters, it is noticed that the election campaign has started so little. Government Party policies show results, and the last year of the period we will continue the course for welfare, for justice and for social cohesion. Tomorrow, a budget will be presented to show this. The interesting thing in the future will be to clarify what really constitutes the alternative to this policy. So far it's very unclear. Three years ago, Siv Jensen said that alliances were to be built to create the basis for a non-socialist majority government. Last autumn, Erna Solberg followed up by stating that we were building a broad political cooperation stone by stone towards 2009, with the ambition to form a government. The result of this construction, of this job, was clearly stated by the representative Lars Sponheim about here in the Chamber a few minutes ago. He said that there is no clear government option on the civil side. As the relationship between the parties on the right now is, we have to assume that an alternative to the sitting government will have to be influenced by the Advance Party. It will mean a marked breach of our welfare, work and social cohesion policies. The progressing party's policy with the release of money and a watchful belief that the market is settling on its own would now have been like pouring petrol onto the fire. It's an experiment we can't afford. Now we really need a responsible and long-term economic policy, we need well-being, strong community and political governance of market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e769	I hear from the representative of Solberg that social cohesion is still to be pursued. That course shall be continued. For three years now, the current government has increased the budget for most people. They have increased taxes and taxes for people most, they have increased electricity costs for people most, and they have increased interest rates for people most. It is the kind of social cohesion that this government stands for, and they are going to continue that course. I'm now wondering first and foremost what further increases the government calls social cohesion, most people can expect from this government. That's the one question. And I asked the Prime Minister earlier today, and I would like to challenge the representative of Solberg too: if you go around thinking that you don't have regulation and governance on the financial market in the United States, is it that you have more or less regulation of the financial market in the United States, or is it that the United States has released it? I'd like to have an answer to that, because it doesn't mean right, and I think it's very serious if the government that's sitting gets rumors and lies about the United States and there's no regulation there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e778	I must first repeat some of what I said in my post a very short time ago: that unemployment is halved, that we have 200,000 more people employed, is perhaps the most important measure that has taken place in a long time to get people out of poverty. Nothing is more important than having a job and income, if you are not going to be dependent on going to the social office. In addition, the Government has pursued a policy towards those who have the least, the minimum pensioners in particular, who have given them a raise in income they have never been close to before, and who actually also mean that fewer of them are dependent on support in addition to their pension. The government will also provide renewed measures in the field of housing policy. I have realized that the Progress Party has conducted extensive study activities in the United States, specializing in how the money market and credit market are governed in the United States, and I have come to the conclusion that it is socialism. I think the Progress Party should recognise that the United States has been run by George W. Bush in the last eight years, that it is his policy that has made a total mistake in the United States, and that it is not even comparable to Norwegian policy - neither the money market nor budgetary and financial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e787	The representative of Solberg said that this is the last persuasion debate before the elections. That's right, but it's also the representative of Solberg's last throne debate. I regret that, because with that, a good colleague and a very exciting competitor goes out of politics. In many line changes in the time I was the Council of State, Solberg's representative raised the question of why the number of disabled people around the world continues to increase. It was a time when we didn't have so many vacancies. Unfortunately, this development has continued - even under this government - despite the fact that we have had a record number of job vacancies to show to, including those who go out in social security. My question is, at the end of this period of the representative of Solberg, is she satisfied with such a development? I had actually expected some more active measures from the red-green parties. I had actually also expected to have looked a little bit at the ideas put forward by the Right to link, for example. the right to social assistance for the obligation to receive a qualifying benefit, or a qualification programme, i.e. an obligation to engage in activity. But you've rejected that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e794	First of all, I must say thank you for nice words. I have also enjoyed many good line changes and debates with the representative Foss here in the Chamber for many years. So what happens to the statistics and the number of disabled people. Yes, this has been a challenge for all governments, at least for the 15-16 years I've been in politics, even when Per-Kristian Foss was a member of the government. The government that is now sitting has actually grasped this in a way that has never been done before. The representative Foss himself mentioned the keyword for it, namely the qualification programme. Now there's an effort to get people out of the social security trap that's much more extensive than we've ever had before. It takes time to get results, but they come. A systematic work is being carried out by the Government to make the qualification programmes effective, which hopefully helps us reverse an unfortunate statistical trend in terms of the number of disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e801	The representative, Solberg, was involved in the regulation of his post, and believed that a debate on the throne might also push a little on the policy. By thinking that Solberg has a past as a social minister, I want to take up the game policy of the Government. We have got regulations on gambling, but the Bondevik government wanted to ban bingo machines too. It is a gambling game that this government has not wanted to regulate at all. At the same time, there is reason to point out that some batches also have large revenues from exactly this type of activity. Experts say that there is no basis for believing anything but that these are as addictive as others. The Lottery Authority has not been in and evaluated this type of game, it has evaluated it itself. My question is: is Hill-Marta Solberg in agreement with Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who, on behalf of his party, has expressed the need to regulate this more stringently?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e810	I would first like to say that the red-green government has seized one of the most challenging areas in terms of games, namely slot machines, and found a solution to it. It means a great deal of progress in the sense that we've got the addictive machines out of the market and hopefully in a system so that people don't become addicted to gambling via vending machines. Then I think we all have to admit that, not least in a digitized world, there are ever any new challenges, and in the future we must probably also discuss the need for new regulations when we see new arenas for games show up. Some of these areas are very difficult to regulate, but in any case it is important that we take political note of it. I respect the fact that on some points the Christian People's Party has disagreed with the government parties in terms of game policy, but the important thing is that we have managed to tighten up in important areas. Now maybe what's happening in the technological field, and all the opportunities that have opened up there for people to play away houses and homes, is the biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e817	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e821	The debate on the throne is the most important political debate in Norway's main room. It's because this is where we have to take care of democracy. We are in the stronghold of democracy and have a special responsibility to take care of and further develop democracy. Some people, over the years, have tried to make democracy less than it is, and partly ridiculed and devalued political governance as somewhat inferior. Some people have said to me that they don't understand why I'm doing politics, that's in other arenas it happens. Luckily, you get another song in these days, when you see that you actually need politicians when things go a little wrong -- then you call for more political governance. I think it's our job in a treaty debate to remember that democracy itself has a self-esteem, but it has a great value in relation to the fact that democracy has been involved in building this country stone by stone, it has developed the welfare society that we're all satisfied with, and it's done that we have living processes. What is political governance? Well, political governance is community building, and it's a subject in which we politicians are the best. It's about a dualistic approach to society where we see that when a society is to be built, there are an incredible number of considerations to be taken. It'll never be perfect, but we're always on our way to something, on our way to perfection and what we believe in. And then you build rock by stone, as we've done in Norway in a number of areas. Let me mention three areas -- I could mention many, but I have a short time -- where political wisdom has led us to have a wonderful society. The first is that we have a common public school, where everyone, regardless of background, can go today from six years of age until they're fully educated at college or university, regardless of background and economics of their parents. That in itself is a grip that is done that in my opinion is incredibly important for us to have a society where the differences are as small as possible. Every now and then, everyone will also have a kindergarten. We're getting closer, and there are incredibly few spaces that are missing because it's also reached. Then you have an offer from the first year of your life until you have completed your education. Another area is our hydropower. Divicious people made for approx. 100 years ago, schemes, called home falls, made the most important natural resource available in Norway, hydropower, belong to the community. We enjoy transforming hydropower's phenomenal resources into people's welfare. It's not going to last 50 years, 100 years, 200 years -- no, it's going to last forever. Eternal time is a very long perspective, but political wisdom was required to achieve it. A third area concerns all the social systems that are built, stone by stone, where a social network has been created, a social network that is unique in Norway. This has also been done with political craftsmanship. When I meet people -- I'm a bit in position even when it's not a campaign -- they don't ask about less political governance. They want more political governance. They tell me that they want political control over the flow because the power prices jump up and down. In other areas too, they will have more political governance. I think people want more political governance. And then you can ask, what kind of political governance do they want? Should we continue with today's government? Or are we going to get something completely different? Today's government is going in a direction where, in my opinion, one is absolutely based on community and takes care of the welfare model that we have. It's not a perfect government, but it's going in a very good direction. It's doing a lot of good, and it's going to do even more after 2009 when it starts at Soria Moria II. I think the Norwegian people want more of Soria Moria, not less. The alternative is that we will have a society where the Progress Party rules and has a substantial hand on the wheel, along with the Right. It's going to be a completely different society, where well-being is being built down. They have even said that the repatriation scheme should be removed. The system of withdrawal must be removed! And in addition, they want to privatize the schools again. So, important things that political craftsmanship has created must be built down. That is what the voters are facing when they are going to vote in eleven months.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e843	In the context of the census, black paint has been used for the market economy and the attitude of the Progress Party towards it. By now, the representative Ryan was up and claimed that the cause of the financial turmoil we are now seeing is a lack of state regulation. But then it's this with words and actions. At the latest in the spring session SV voted to increase the share of the State pension fund - Foreign from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. The Progress Party proposed to keep it at 40 p.m., but SV would increase the risk of increasing the share of the world's stock exchanges. Why does SV go in order to increase the risk of managing taxpayers' money, in a stock market that they themselves believe lacks regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e852	Here we're in on complicated things that I'm not going to make myself an expert on. We know that there's a distribution between bonds and shares when you're going to place the huge funds that we have. We have so much money in Norway, and dealing with this in a sensible way requires competence, at least beyond what I own. How the distribution should be between shares and bonds is an assessment where we listen to the experts we have in the Ministry of Finance, in the Government and other experts. I don't want to say if it's right to increase from 40 pst. to 60 pst. When the government has found out that it's the most reasonable thing, I have confidence that our government has made a wise assessment, and we've ended up doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e857	After listening to the red-green speakers so far in this debate, there are two things that strike me: self-crust knows no limits, and self-satisfaction reaches ever new heights. That's the way it seems - that everything that goes well is the government's profit, and everything that goes wrong is the fault of others. I believe that many of those who voted for SV and the red-greens in 2005 have reason to be terribly disappointed. It's obviously in the opinion polls to judge. They were supposed to eliminate poverty and get people up in the morning, it was said. Today we know that there are as many poor people as when the government took over. And with 16 red-green interest rates, heavily increased food prices and increased rental prices, SV and the other batches are not just further away from the goal than before, the situation is that even more people are at risk of poverty. This is not just a brutal, unsocial policy; it is also a betrayal of the very weakest in society. Or, in other words, less to those who have the least in the past. Is it this SV meant to share the goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e866	First of all, I said in my post that that's not all that's perfect with this government. The orientation is very correct. We're doing a lot of good, but it's clear that there are areas where we could have thought of getting further. In some areas, we're dependent on relationships that happen outside of us. For example, when interest increases are mentioned, it is not just the Norwegian government that determines interest rates in Norway. We're dependent on international relations in that area. That's why there's areas where we could've thought of being better -- even areas that we're responsible for the seas. The most important thing we have done for the poor is that we almost do not have unemployment in Norway. That is the most important thing in terms of poverty. I have been the head of a work office for many years, and getting people to work was something we most appreciated. We have. It's now a historically low unemployment, and we're very pleased with that. As far as food prices are concerned, I have always said that food is cheap in Norway. It's never been as cheap as it is now compared to what we earn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e875	I always listen attentively to the interesting posts that the representative Inge Ryan holds from Stortinget's pulpit. So did I today. I naturally sharpened my ears extra when I heard him talking about politics from the point of view of eternity. I must say that I think that inge Ryan towards the election will have to focus more on explaining whether the promises you made before the last election hold from one election to the other. This is particularly true of poverty. It's not like people are now calling for more red-green politics. In a survey, seven out of ten Nordics say they think the government is doing too little in terms of poverty. The last time Inge Ryan was confronted with this, in the throne debate a year ago, he responded by referring to the NAV reform and saying that it was going to work well in the coming year. My question is: Is Inge Ryan satisfied with the government's efforts in the fight against poverty, which was to be abolished with a pen stroke? And point two: Is he satisfied with the way the NAV reform is now working, as an instrument against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e886	To the first question, I am partly satisfied with the abolition of poverty. I am pleased that we have had so many people working, that so many are employed. We still have too many people who are out of work and who are struggling with the economy. We hope that the qualification programme that is under way will have good effects, so that even more people come to work. It is quite obvious, as has been said earlier in the debate today, that there is a waste of society's resources that we have so many people out of work - 800,000. We still have a way to go before we get to it-- there's no doubt about it. As far as the NAV reform is concerned, I see that the NAV reform stands and does - I can actually do a little bit in this field. There are three cultures that need to be merged, and there is a challenge in getting the employment, social security and social work offices to work well together. I am excited, and I am closely following the development of the NAV reform. I believe that we are on a verge of success or failure to reform, but I hope, like the Højbråt, that we will succeed gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e895	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e898	The speech of the throne and the debate of the throne will point forward. I'll start by quoting -- not from the throne, but from Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland's speech at Stortinget's opening. He looks a little bit back, and he says, ‘The size has managed an incredible national increase in wealth over a very short period of time, with great skill. History has shown that rapidly increasing wealth has become the beginning of destruction for both nations and individuals.» And on the other hand, ‘But the Stortinget has dealt with a remarkable degree of soberness, while the funds have mainly been used to build the community and secure the future.’ The central party's participation in the centre-left government has one goal: to build the whole country by creating and then sharing. Well-developed welfare schemes are the result of active public interaction with strong business, organisations and people. The value creation shall ensure both public and individual economic foundations that provide security for tomorrow. It is the aim of the Centre Party that all those with a working capacity, through different measures, should be helped into the labour market, not only in time rises, but also when the decline comes. Work is the most important action that can lead people out of poverty. The financial crisis casts shadows on the future and creates uncertainty for many. Norway is better equipped to deal with the international financial crisis we are now in, than many other countries. We have focused on good, modern and coherent regulation of the financial sector, but it is naive to believe that this crisis will not be affected. When the world economy falters, it has consequences for Norwegian exports in terms of demand for goods. In Finland, construction in parts of the country is a sudden stoppage, and the same is true of residential sales. The uncertainty of the future economic situation of the individual characterises many people's everyday lives. Everyone has known that solid growth in the private sector and economy could not continue. The centre party believes it is particularly important to take action to prevent people from losing their jobs, to increase unemployment. Labour shortages due to very high activity in the private sector have until now limited the potential to increase public sector efforts. Less pressure in the labour market opens up the opportunity to increase efforts in public tasks, such as: infrastructure, upgrading, construction and maintenance. We own the privilege in our country that we have the opportunity to meet a cyclical downturn with countermeasures. We must manage this opportunity wisely for the benefit of the people. It is another crisis that characterises millions of people, and as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg pointed out in his speech to the UN General Assembly, namely the food crisis - a crisis that will be aggravated by the financial crisis: high food prices, food stocks are less than in many years, 860 million people are starving. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, estimates that food production needs to increase by 50 pst. by 2030 to provide the world's population with adequate food. Should we not, as a rich country, at least make sure to produce our own food? A future WTO agreement must guarantee each country the right to produce food for its own people. So to a third crisis -- an energy consumption that is not sustainable. The centre party believes it is important to take Norway from the fossil to the renewable energy community. Key policy objectives are to reduce energy consumption and produce more clean energy, to replace fossil energy with renewable energy and to use energy more efficiently than today. Technological developments at the intersection of environment and energy should be a priority of Norway. In the field of renewable energy, the government statement is clear and offensive, but we have not come far enough. Low energy prices do not provide sufficient incentives for operators to invest in alternative energy sources. I believe that the Government should consider more further and stronger instruments to raise renewable energy such as bioenergy, wind, solar, wave and tide power. The future is uncertain. The centre party will meet the challenges ahead with responsibility so that it can be built in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e926	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e930	The representative's posts were very similar to what was presented in the nostalgia. The greatest similarity was probably in many ways the absence of measures to do something in the health sector, where there are, in fact, problems. The representative of the Skjälaa did not mention in one word something that had to do with health. That's what I think was a little sad, as over a number of years in the Health and Care Committee, I've become acquainted with the Skjillaa as a person who's concerned about the weak and those who need help. After all the crises the representative of the Kschillaa mentioned in his post, at a time when his own party is in government -- I haven't heard of so many crises before -- my question to Kschillaa is the following: There are 4,000 people in line for drug treatment in Norway. Most of us are doing very well, but some groups are working very hard, and drug users are one of these groups. What will the government do specifically, so that these 4,000 now get help and not just stay with talk?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e937	I mentioned three crises in my post, three serious crises. One is a financial crisis that can rock a lot, the other is a food crisis that affects 860 million people in the world, and the third is an environmental and sustainability crisis. This is, in fact, important to put a strong emphasis on in a persuasion debate in the situation we are in now. And yes, health is not forgotten by the Center Party or the undersigned, who has been the first Vice-Chairman of the Health and Care Committee. What we want to do in the future is, in fact, drug treatment. We have a government budget coming, but the government has previously announced that drug treatment is an area that needs a reinforced effort. Drug users should have a treatment course that goes without stopping, from entering into detoxification and until they can go out and be returned to society in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e944	The representative of the Central Party has been highly crisis-oriented. I also think that with clean energy is a crisis, if you ask a lot of the players in that industry, but I'm not going to go into that. What surprised me was also that you kept out of the way. Nor was it mentioned in one word by the representative of the Central Party. Transport is the most important thing for too much of District Norway and for building the country. I'm sitting here with statistics showing that the red-green government hasn't been able to increase its share of travel in Norway, so you haven't been able to prioritize transportation. You can't build more roads, you can build less roads. Then the question is, is it over that the Center Party is going to build the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e951	No, that's not deleted correctly. If the representative had heard of it, I used another expression for transportation, namely building infrastructure, and I actually underlined that in my post. Less pressure in the labour market opens up opportunities to increase efforts in public tasks such as: infrastructure, upgrading, construction and maintenance. Traffic will always be a very important task for the Center Party, and that's actually for this government. In fact, this government is the one who has managed to keep up with the level of funding provided by the national transport plan. In 2005, the Right was placed at an annual level of DKK 2.5 billion below that implemented by this government. We had hoped that perhaps more people had started talking about a journey promise, more than just words, but also action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e956	The representative of the Skjærlaa began his post by saying that the throne number should point forward. In 2010, the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten shall be evaluated. Therefore, this will be one of the most important issues in the election campaign until the 2009 Grand elections. During the current period, the Central Party has overthrown the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and has also taken the lead in massive seismic investigations in this area, which has led to the landing of fishermen. At the same time, former centre party leaders and oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga expressed strong scepticism for oil drilling outside Lofoten. On 10 June she said to Stavanger Aftenblad: ‘When it comes to the areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, I’m very sceptical about starting oil extraction here. [[...]] If I were to decide on this now, I would definitely say no." We have been given new centre party leaders, new parliamentary leader and new oil and energy ministers, so the question is: What does the Central Party's current leadership of oil drilling in the Lofoten and the Barents Sea mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e966	It is quite correct, the representative Holten Hemdal states, that this should be re-examined in the rolling of the plan in 2010. The centre party is in a solid program process. We have a national meeting in front of us where we will also adopt programme declarations and programme positions relating to the next majority period. I shouldn't prejudge that program process. But what I can say is that when we negotiated the Soria Moria Declaration, it was very important that the programme of the Centre Party, the SV's programme and the Workers' Party's programme were concrete. It's also going to be our program, so that we can make a right decision when we get to 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e973	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e976	The government announces in the throne that it will start work on an interaction reform in the health care system. Why? Well, our analysis is that the individual parts of the Norwegian healthcare system alone are not without defects, but in many ways they work well. But those patients who need complete patient care become losers, because the different joints do not interact well enough. There are many examples that can substantiate what I'm saying now. An example is older hospitalisation, which is written in and out of hospitals, not because they are in principle in demand or need hospital services, but because the economic system requires hospitalization. The patient becomes a caste ball, and the total cost of society increases, but the municipalities earn it. Another example is the drug user who has been one year, two years, three years at a happy day treatment institution, who has learned to live with his or her addiction there, and who, after being drug-free for perhaps a whole year, is being published to a municipality and then to an almost non-existent municipal service provision. What's going on? Three-four days after the printing has been completed, he cracks, and one-two-three years of luck treatment has been discarded. A third example: in 2007, at Norwegian hospitals, we had 150 000 laydays for outpatients. A simple estimate suggests that we spent 800 million. kr to have patients lying in hospitals that had nothing to do in the hospital. It was a bad patient offer when the hospital was done with you. There was a queue, because outside there were patients who wanted to get in. It was an animal and a bad solution. The municipalities could not afford to receive you, while the money was spent in Norway’s most expensive health beds. There are many good examples, despite what I'm saying now, that there's actually good interaction. I have had the pleasure, after I became a health minister, to travel around Norway looking at some of the good examples, for example. the district medical centre in Stjørdalen, Saupstad health centre in Trondheim, nurses in Skien who teach all employees of the municipal health service to receive intravenous treatment, etc. But what we have to realize is that the good interaction happens because of the fires, it happens despite the system and because some people say, we do it anyway. I don't think that's going to be a sustainable situation for the future. That is why we need to implement an interaction reform, a reform that responds to how good interaction can happen, not despite the system, but because of the system. Much has been said and written about interaction for many years, but one question remains unanswered: what kind of changes must be made to the economic system and the legal framework in order for good interaction to take place due to the system? I see that a lot of people are criticizing us for starting new investigations. They say there are investigations. I deeply disagree with that. There are no investigations that answer the question I now asked: What kind of economic system and what kind of legal framework is needed for good interaction to take place due to the system? That's why we now in the Ministry of Health and Welfare have set up a large project with many phases, where we are just asking that question, and where we are saying that in April we will come up with a very concrete proposal for such a new economic system. We have to deal with it in government, we have to deal with it in government parties, and we have to come to Stortinget with a proposal when we are ready. I feel very convinced that if we do not manage to get the interaction to happen through system changes, the health care system will continue to work, and then it will not help to grant even more money, because then you will grant even more money that is still being used incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e997	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1000	First of all, I would like to commend the Minister of Health for having just begun to address the problem he himself was talking about, which is what interacts with the different levels of healthcare. At the end, the Council of State also came up with the funding system, that is, we now have to look at the whole of the system itself. For approx. Three years ago, in one of the first interviews given by the then Health Minister Sylvia Brustad, she said it was very important to look at the interaction between the different levels of health care when dealing with the problems. So it's been three years, and the Council of State has been in the same government that time. But let history be history. Let's look ahead and see what might come out of it, because I think that's very positive. I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is, will the Council of State now start to look more at the overall process of treatment when we look at funding systems, instead of talking piece by piece and division? The second question is: will the Council of State ensure that you do not take any rest cuts and rest breaks now, pending that this sample will come up with a setting, but that you will also solve some of the actual problems that are out there now, in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1015	First of all, the representative's point: that's the core of what we have to look at. We see today that a COPD patient, for example. need some treatment from the municipality, need some treatment from the hospital, need some rehabilitation, and then perhaps go back to the municipality again. And we can see that the municipality is doing an excellent job in itself, that the hospital is doing an excellent job in itself, that the rehabilitation institution is doing an excellent job in itself, etc. But we see that when the patient or user is going to move from one system to another, it's going wrong, because there's nothing, especially in the economic system, that supports that exchange. That's why we're wasting our resources, and that's why the Progress Party's answer is wrong. The answer to this challenge is not even more money. The answer is first to make the system work well, so grant more money. The answer to question 2 is that I am looking forward to tomorrow, until we submit the proposal to the government budget. Then the representative Nesvik will see that there will be no severance pending the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1023	First, I would like to wish the Council of State the best of luck with the annual secretariat of the Ministry of Health. After all, he described that he would use three-quarters of the year to make an investigation that will be available in April next year, and then he suggested something about what will happen to this investigation. I would like to have the Council of State's confirmation that nothing is going to happen in the form of any proposal The Storting may decide, before the time comes, because the Council of State's description implies that the Storting could expect at the earliest to have any proposal to deal with a long period of time during the next majority period - and I stress a long way - if you are to follow the usual course of treatment in the relationship between accumulation and government. Is it, then, primarily for election purposes that this whole investigation has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1030	I have registered that several Right-wing representatives have been out with the kind of criticism that the representative is now presenting. What is now happening in the Ministry of Health and Welfare is a thorough review which will form the basis of a proposal for some of the most important health reforms that have been carried out for many, many years. So it is true that it is doubtful that this proposal is being promoted for this big business - it must be promoted for the next big business. Then it is perceived as a problem that it is then clarified before the election campaign. But I hope that pay has no objection to discussing health in the election campaign, and that wages are then aware of what this government will do in the health sector in the next period if we win the election. Or is it that wages seem uncomfortable that we clarify our policies before the elections? In my opinion, it should be in line with the best traditions that before the election we say what to do if we win the election. I think we will make so many good suggestions for solutions that I understand that pay is concerned, but that must be our starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1037	Statistics for the first four months of the year show that there were an average of 272 Corridor Asians per day in Norwegian hospitals. This is equal to 2,6 pst. the number of bed days. This is unfortunate and unworthy both for the quality of treatment, for the safety of treatment, and not least for the individual patient. My question to the Government Council is whether the Government will assess the legal ban on dealing with this problem once and for all, while establishing a funding system that does not make it profitable for hospitals with Corridor Asians, and strengthening interaction with municipalities and planning better for future needs for sick beds. In particular, this will be of importance for elderly sick patients who often travel between municipalities and hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1044	In my opinion, there is absolutely no legal ban on Corridor Asians. I think it is quite alarming that you are reflecting on that possibility at all. If I had been a patient and had had a condition that allowed hospital treatment, and that was so that all the beds in the rooms were occupied, I would still have preferred to have the necessary treatment even if it had promised one day or two on the corridor. So saying that the best thing for me anyway would have been to write me out of the hospital and not give me the treatment that was necessary would be a very strange analysis. I am absolutely sure that the solution to the corridor patient problem lies in the interaction reform. We had 150,000 ready-to-print patients in Norwegian hospitals in 2007, and if we solve the Georgian knot, we will also be able to solve the challenge that Corridor patients pose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1051	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1054	The debate on most people in this country is almost forgotten, because the current government, in particular the Prime Minister, wants to focus as much as possible on the crisis that has arisen, especially in the United States, on the financial market. Here the sitting government, and in particular the Prime Minister, have found an external enemy - an external enemy that the Prime Minister and the sitting government want to use and connect against the policies of the Progress Party. They do that, of course, simply to cover their own emergency response to the challenges facing the people of Norway. I listened with excitement to the parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, from the Workers' Party, who claimed that the sitting government had been driving social cohesion for three years. Yes, it is a strange form of social cohesion, I must say, because the social cohesion pointed out by Parliamentary leader Solberg of the Workers' Party clearly shows that the differences in Norway have increased. There have been more millionaires in Norway during the last three years than ever. There have even been several billionaires under the sitting government. The current government has increased the housing tax for people, it has increased the interest rate for people, it has increased the fuel tax for people, it has increased the electricity costs for people and it has increased the road tax for people. It's the social cohesion that this government is going to continue with. It's the only thing that promises. And people see it. That's why it makes sense that the sitting government has to use external enemies to cover up. That's very interesting. But we in the Progress Party will continue to focus on the challenges facing people in this country, and the challenges facing businesses in Norway, through the inescapability we see from the current government. It is also interesting to look at the ignorance - or wish of ignorance - of the cause of the financial crisis, and where the current policy that has been pursued during this financial crisis, the Progress Party's programme, is being put into practice in this room. It's quite unique, and I miss someone going to the sitting government, especially the Prime Minister, after the seams to find the cause, because the causes are different. If we are talking about regulation, deregulation or tightening up the financial market, the Labour Party must be confronted with the fact that it is those who have regulated the financial market in Norway, from 1945 to 1980, while in fact it is the Right who appears to be the only decent economists in the political environment, who have provided the only financial message we have had in Norway - under Willoch - by releasing the market freely, and then it is the Progress Party, who has never been in the position that we have been able to influence the financial market or monetary policy, which should be responsible for this. What has happened in the United States would never - I repeat: never - have happened in Norway with the Progress Party. I don't think it would have happened to any other political party in Norway either. For the truth is, if you're looking at whether the market is heavily regulated or not, it's like the Swedish Finance Minister in Norway is running under a liberalist system, if we're measuring up against the United States. There's more regulation in the United States than it is in Norway, and that's how the United States is governed by a short-term interest rate policy. Like the government that sits here, we want to be governed by a long-term interest rate policy. We want a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a The United States - with Clinton at the head - removed the requirement for equity in 1994. We in the Progress Party will continue to have responsibility for the pledge of the individual dwelling on the individual, and not do as Clinton and others have done in the United States, that the pledge is on the home. There are tools that are much more similar to what SV in Norway wants in relation to the House Bank, for example. Someone has to take a thank-you and we have to stand upright, no matter how unprofessional our prime minister is, no matter how unprofessional the commentators are in relation to the debate that is going on. We will continue to focus on what is important: to ensure that people in this country get better framework conditions than they have received under the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1065	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1068	I understand that it will be very uncomfortable for the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party, Per Sandberg, when a critical search light is put on the largest opposition party in terms of what all the people in Norway are now talking about, namely the ongoing financial crisis. I would encourage him to contribute to a little clarification, for he tried in his post. But when Siv Jensen was asked earlier in the debate today to explain the programme formulations of the Progress Party that the Progress Party is a liberal party and wants a money and credit market without political regulation, she says that no, the Progress Party supports everything that has happened in the Norwegian downturn over the last ten years, i.e. the rules under which we operate today. I would like to ask Per Sandberg whether it is good liberalist policy to impose strict demands on the equity of financial institutions or that investment advisors in Norway are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework to safeguard investors' interests in an advisory situation. Or the best thing: is it liberal good policy that banks' access to take up loans in Norway's Bank is regulated, both how much banks get to borrow, and what kind of interest they have to pay for the loans? What should the voters get out of this? We're all wondering about that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1075	The representative shall receive an answer. I am head of the program committee of the Progress Party, and we have a comprehensive process. It's clear that we have to take some action in relation to our process, because you, especially the Workers' Party, have your own ability to mix up what's involved in principle and what's involved in action. We could have liked to have the same focus on the Labour Party's policy and principle, but that's absolutely impossible, because the Workers' Party does not have principles to deal with. That's right. Then it is true that we basically believe - and there we agree with the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party believes the same thing - that there should not have been a need for extensive regulation. The Labour Party has taken over this, because the Labour Party, together with the Progress Party, has regulated the financial market in Norway, so we agree on that. But what we're clear about is we don't want price and quantity adjustments like we've had before. Nor do we want to have credit rationalisation towards some groups or projects as someone in the government wants, and the situation has actually been in the United States, which may be the cause of the major financial crisis in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1082	It is only to be noted that, with regard to the two major challenges in the world, of which Norway is also part, the climate and financial turmoil, the Progress Party has once again one response, and it is still silent and running, more market and more pollution. Then maybe one would think that one was a little more careful about how one safeguarded the security of people in the very near, especially the party that spends money in quantities, which would create even greater problems in Norway. But I've gone back and looked at the area that's about whether there's gonna be enough people to sit and help those who need to pay a social security. Should it be people who can help people who are unemployed? So in this area, the Progress Party in the budget of the year - when NAV is struggling - has cut almost half a billion in terms of the people who are going to sit and help people so that they get their retirement on the day they want it. Has the Progress Party, as the Government has done, taken on board the need for more staff in NAV? Are they included in appropriations that allow people to get their social security when they are going to, and get help when they are unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1089	First to NAV. NAV has come halfway through its reform, and it will never be what the Progress Party initially wanted: a more efficient, rational approach towards the individual. Unfortunately, there was a reform and a situation where we make it a little more difficult than we should have done. But if we had done what the Progress Party primarily wanted at the time we were dealing with the reform, the situation would have been quite different. I think Karin Andersen should be a little careful in pointing out which groups the Progress Party wants to focus on through NAV. The fact that we cut in these areas is simply because we believe that our policies will make a lot more sure that people get work, gets alternatives instead of being passive. And so I also think it's very interesting that a party that wants to put down the stock exchange in Norway, and that wants to deprive everyone in this country of private ownership, blends into the finance debate at all. I think they'll be a little bit careful with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1099	I have heard the post of the representative Sandberg. All the time he says that everyone will attack us, everyone will attack the Advance Party. We are not fair to the Progress Party, we must attack them. And then we have to defend the poor victim that the Progress Party is almost, because everyone is so ugly, and everyone wants to face it in a way. What Stoltenberg has done earlier today is to talk about the Progress Party program. Several others have done the same. To call it an attack I actually think is quite unreasonable. One must be able to stand for what's in the program. Enough about that. My question concerns a matter that we dealt with a little back in time, namely a home fall, which I actually believe is the biggest matter that this government has put forward. Will the Progress Party, which is opposed to repatriation, work in the next major period to re-establish that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1106	To the end, I'm going to be as woolly as the Center Party and all the other games are when they get that kind of warranty question. We're in a program process, and we're evaluating the latest legislative changes from that. We didn't make any decisions here. But we tried, and the Kjellaa knows very well, to reach a compromise here that both LO, NHO and industry were interested in. Unfortunately, that proposal for a compromise fell. What the Skeleton started with, I think is interesting. I think it's nice that we're being challenged. It is for the benefit of the Progress Party that we are being challenged and that a critical searchlight is being put on us. We want that, and we know we will be strengthened to September next year. We're happy with that. But what's wrong with what the Chill says is that the other parties are discussing our program. They don't! They're discussing one sentence now, another sentence next week, and then they're taking a third sentence the week after. If they want to discuss the policy of the Progress Party, they have to do as Gro Harlem Brundtland said in his time: you have to see it all in context. The Progress Party has a coherent policy. It's important, but of course it doesn't want the other parties to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1115	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1118	The government we have today is a result of the previous choice, where the majority of voters support a policy for more communities rather than tax havens for the richest. The Labour Party made choices at work for all, a better community school, better care for the elderly and a fairer distribution. We would bet on building public welfare, improving and renewing. By removing the previous government's non-social tax cuts, this government has had about. $50 billion more to use for public welfare. This has led to more money for municipalities. This has led to a better schooling for students, more kindergartens, a better care for the elderly and a billion-dollar health care. And for the first time, the national transport plan is being followed up, which in this period will give about $8 billion more to the track and road than the previous government provided. The unemployment rate has not been lower than 20 years. Never have multiple employees. More than 200,000 more than three years ago are at work today. 50,000 have gone from one place in the unemployment queue to a permanent job. The government party does what they promise in the election campaign: builds up and improves Community solutions at the same time as an economic policy that ensures employment, value creation and well-being. One is well on track to implement what was set down in the Government's work programme, called Soria Moria. In the Common Era, the government announced that it would continue its efforts to implement the policy on which a choice was made. Community solutions shall be improved and developed. In the last few weeks, unrest in the international financial market has fully demonstrated that Norway too is affected by what is happening outside our borders. Although we do not yet have the full overview of what this unrest will lead to for us, everything suggests that the damage to our country is little compared to what is happening in many other countries. One might claim that we are lucky, but it is not by chance that we are better equipped to deal with this crisis than many other countries. It has to do with the policy we have pursued here in the country. Unlike many others, we have had strict regulation and control over our financial sector. This has been necessary, and it now spares us the worst results of the international unrest. The fact that we have order in the economy is decisive for our freedom of action. The financial crisis in the United States and elsewhere shows that regulation and control are necessary. The market cannot be left to itself, as some seem to believe. The fact that the state in many countries now has to offer rescue packages and the purchase of banks and finance houses is enough to defeat the total confidence of liberalism in the free market. Even if one of these days sees tear-dropping headlines about investors' billions of dollars, the common people who are the real losers too this time. People who weren't close when the bonuses were paid out have to pay the bill in terms of higher interest rates and in the worst case go from home to home because of other people's speculations. The financial euro shows that we should not experiment with economic policy and that regulation is of the good - not the opposite, as the Progress Party claims. The most interesting thing that has happened so far today is that Right's leader has stated that the Progress Party can forget its economic policy if they want to cooperate with Right. At the same time, it means that all of us, including the Advance Party's voters, can forget all the rises in billions for all good purposes. This summer there was war in Europe. The war between Russia and Georgia was a clear violation of international law. We have to take a clear distance from the abuse of power that happened. It has been, and therefore it is completely wrong when the Right Leader tries to doubt Norway and the Government's reaction to Russia's behaviour. There is no basis for that. Wet power is not the way to resolve conflict between states. But in the same way that we have to take a clear distance from Russia's use of power, it must be a clear goal to engage Russia as much as possible in as many areas as possible. To join Russia as an active participant in pan-European fora that the Council of Europe and the Council of NATO-Russia are important. No one, nor Norway, nor Europe, nor the world, is lit with unnecessary increased tension between Russia and the rest of the world. Therefore, it is important for Norway to continue practical and concrete cooperation with Russia. The Trontals state that foreign policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1147	In the Common Era, the Government says, among other things: that they: ‘will pursue an offensive European policy of Norwegian interest, in close contact with the EU institutions and Member States’. Of course, I expect the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to join in. Our form of association and cooperation with the EU can be beneficial, but in many cases it also creates significant challenges. An example of this is the case of the fall-back. When the matter was recently dealt with here in the house, the government and the government claimed that the opposition's proposal to postpone the fall-back and secure several thousand industrial workplaces would not be approved by ESA. According to Today's Business 30 September, ESA President Per Sanderud says that ‘The Norwegian Government never contacted ESA in order to assess the opposition’. Does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee think that the Government's action in this matter is an offensive European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1166	Yes, I absolutely do. We have to put this into the perspective where this thing belongs to home. This is a matter that Norway has been operating with ESA and Europe for six, seven years. The previous government had a hearing to equate public and private ownership in such a way that all municipalities also had to surrender their ownership in the power sector to the state. We already said no to that at the time. This government also chose to bring proceedings before the EFTA Court for clarification. On the basis of that, we received a judgment that allowed Norway to have a limited period of time in order to bring the legislation into line with the judgment of the EFTA Court. The government has been working actively to get it done, and through the decision taken by the Stortinget - Odelstinget and Lagtinget - a few weeks ago, we now have public control of our water power resources, which the opposition's proposal cannot give us. That is why it has been a very active policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1175	No one can disagree with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that unnecessary stress is not desirable. Of course! When criticism of the Government's way of acting in the aftermath of the Georgia crisis has been raised, it's because it was said several times in the media from prominent representatives of the Government that nothing had changed, that in the northern regions, in our neighbourhood with Russia, everything is what it's always been, and there's no need to worry about it. At best, it's a superficial analysis. In the aftermath of the Georgia crisis, it is obvious that NATO is gnawing in the seams, and that NATO countries have had major problems agreeing on which line to follow. On the other hand, the EU has been able to act and contribute to constructive political development. Should this not mean that the Norwegian government had a little clearer thoughts about Norway's future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1184	Now I think the government has very clear thoughts about Norway's future both in this and in a lot of areas. What is quite clear is that I think it is negative that the opposition, especially the Right, is trying to create an impression that is not correct, that Norway is not equal to all the other countries in NATO, and so far within Western Europe, has taken a clear distance from the way in which Russia tackles the crisis in Georgia. This is not the case, and by the way of the Right, it undermines one, in reality, the seriousness and strength of the questions brought by a whole Western Europe. So from the one day onwards, this government has wanted to get international attention in Norway's northern region through the Northern Region Strategy and by increasing the attention of NATO and other forums when it comes to the potential tension that can remain in this area. That's why what's happening now is just confirming that we've had a government that's been foresaw when it's about potential development in our border area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1191	In the VG today, Elisabeth Skarsbø Moen writes that toddlers are the group that has reason to be disappointed when Stoltenberg's reign now runs toward the end. It's not full babysitting. The maximum price has been cancelled for the period. The promise in ten weeks' parental allowance we haven't seen the spin of so far, nor the promise to give fathers independent entrapment rights is fulfilled. The Christian People's Party thinks it's time to get this in place. Does the Axis agree with that? We in the Christian People's Party have proposed a new flexible parental leave of 16 months, where the 14 extra weeks can be used freely before the child reaches the age of 10. This is a concrete proposal that will help tens of thousands of parents across the country to have more time with their children. Does the Axis agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1198	I also mean it would be wrong to say that special groups in Norway have a lot of reason to be dissatisfied with this government. Norway has gone very well. The unemployment rate has fallen, the purchasing power has increased - even for young children's parents - and we have been able to see the impact of the development of kindergartens in Norway, and we are expected to achieve the goal of full childcare coverage in the next year. Whether it is that the Christian People's Party is now among those parties that think that too little is happening in this area, I think it is a very positive development, unfortunately, the Christian People's Party has not been among the strongest proponents to build kindergartens. I have also not understood that the Christian People's Party has been a special force for expanding the parental leave. If so, of course I am very pleased with that. We are also willing to evaluate all of the recordings that have to be made in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1209	The serious financial crisis that is now shaking the world started in the United States and is still the strongest in the United States. But leading European professors say in a recent call: ‘This is a one-time-in-life crisis. Confidence between financial institutions disappears, fear can spread.» They further say, ‘If the turmoil paralyses the credit markets, jobs and enterprises can be destroyed on a massive scale.’ These are very strong words from a group consisting of 700 of the leading professors of economics in the United States, and they are addressed to European politicians, including Norway. I am very pleased with the statement made by the Prime Minister at the beginning of his speech today, and I expect that the Government and the banks of their organisations are in a continuous dialogue with the Bank of Norway with a view to the necessary credit supply to all types of banks, not least the smallest of them. But I would like to stress that the banks also have a responsibility to restructure and to make sure to get out of the crisis that has been brought about by their own deposit operations, so-called fundraising, at substantially higher prices. For its part, the right has always stressed that the market economy needs driving rules and effective supervision. Its more global economy has become, the stronger is the need for supervision both on the competitive side and on the credit side. A strengthened credit supervision was the result of our efforts during the government period, and as late as in our promotion, the Right proposal for further strengthening of the Credit Authority's resources. There has been a broad consensus on financial legislation in this country. I have registered that the Progress Party in this area has given some vague signals. Let me say that after today's debate I'm happy for at least one thing. The leader of the party, Siv Jensen, has left Vice-Chairman Per Sandberg aside, and has declared that she does not agree with the programme of the Progress Party that now governs, according to which it says that there should be no regulation and intervention in this area, and has also added to it the draft that is now available for a new programme, which says: «Regulation by the authorities should in principle be superfluous in a free economy.» I then understand that «in principle» is not meant for the current situation – neither before, now or in the future. So it's all side by side. Then I'm going to leave the confusion that exists in the Progress Party between leader and vice-leader, whether the United States is running socialism in the field of the financial market or not, because it's so separate -- whether I can get permission to use that expression -- and so ignorant that it doesn't deserve any further comment. You could almost be tempted to say that among the many study trips you've had in the party, you might want to add more to the United States. But it's too late now. The Prime Minister said in his introduction that Norway is well equipped to meet the financial crisis. That's right. However, the question is whether Norwegian industry and Norway are well equipped to meet the recessions that will result from the developments we are now seeing. I believe that Norwegian business is facing a number of major problems related to both cost levels, increasing wage pressure in some industries and failing order access. Then it is disappointing that we have not used the good times we have now been through, the huge oil revenues we have used, and the huge tax receipts we have received, to strengthen precisely what it was intended to strengthen following the rules of action: research and development - where there has been little, there is actually a decline - through infrastructure investment - nor have they been able to keep track of developments either in prices, wages or in an increasing government budget. The third area, which was identified at the time, and on which there was broad agreement, was taxes and charges linked to business. There has been a decline in the sense that taxes and taxes on business have increased. Even program entries from the Central Party such as reduced taxes on wealth or from SV on increased depreciation rates for industry - in the case of machinery in industry - have not been followed up, rather across the board. Then, of course, I agree with the Prime Minister that everything has gone well so far. But it's no use looking back when you're going to meet problems that come. And it's in the face of a recession that would have been stronger if you had prioritised higher these areas of value creation with the large funds that you've spent in the years that have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1233	It was interesting to listen to the experienced and, I would say, capable financial politician Per-Kristian Foss’ sober assessment of the financial crisis. But with all due respect, his attempts to calm the potential partner Progress Party ashore and clarify their vision were not as impressive. Right has opened to form government with the Progress Party. It is clear to us that much of the blue policy for which the government would stand, with the downgrading of the community, with privatisation, the sale of state activity, taxation, and probably also the weakening of workers' dishes. But my question is, how will economic policy be? Here Erna Solberg has tried to clarify it earlier today, but given the current situation on the polls, the Advance Party will be a large and heavy party. Does Per-Kristian Foss feel comfortable entering into a government cooperation with a party that has such a diametrical contrast to the fiscal and economic policies of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1240	I would like to make Kåre Willoch's words to mine: An important dividing line goes between populism and moderation. Right-wing conservatism represents the moderation. That is why I do not feel comfortable with all parts of the economic policy of the Progress Party. So sometimes we also use the opportunity to mark where the dividing lines go. We have done so very clearly in this debate. I believe in a debate which this one serves to hear what is said, and does not have a clear script in advance. I read Per Sandberg's many strange statements with wonder, to say it carefully. In this debate, therefore, the leader of the Progress Party has not made a single attempt to say that they represent a different regulation of financial market policy - and I stress: financial market policy. She talked a lot about monetary policy, and it's something else. But in the field of the financial market, i.e. banking and insurance industries, she has grown so strongly to the majority that there is almost no difference as far as I have registered. To put it like this, it's okay to look around the world, even for the leaders of the Progress Party. And when you do that, and come running after us, I get to take it as a positive development. Nor has the Progress Party made any effort to defend its efforts to strengthen its credit supervision by reducing its allocations. I think that was wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1251	After the past few weeks - in and of course one and a half years - events in the United States, market fundamentalism should now be stone dead. One of the reasons for the financial crisis is that financial institutions have taken a high risk, among other things. in its lending policy, such as: led to the housing crisis. What we know is that high profits follow high risks. Taking a bank high risk, it gets a high profit when it goes well. Similarly, things are bad, with great losses, in bad times. What we also know has happened throughout this period in the United States is that the richest have become richer. The same thing happened every year when Per-Kristian Foss headed the Ministry of Finance, among others. because large tax credits were provided by removing taxes on dividends to the richest. This led to adjustments that led the richest to raise NOK 200 billion in tax-free dividends. My question is quite simply: Was this a wild, wanted, policy from Per-Christian Foss' side, or did it come as a surprise to him that the richest became so rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1262	We need some wealth in the country, but they've never been as rich as they've been under this government. The richest in Norway are the ones who withdraw capital income. They have never taken out more capital income than they did during this government until the crisis came. I believe that the representative does not believe that the international financial crisis is a misguided result of the policy of the red-green government. It would be to take a little hard in. In that area, I have a very good conscience. I have been involved in promoting regulation in the financial market area, which means that we have a completely different policy in this area than for example. U.S.A. Much of what has now gone wrong in the United States would not have been allowed to do in Norway. This is due, inter alia, to: large parts of the US financial industry are out of regulation and have fragmented supervision. We do not have that in Norway. Let me say this: SV supported all the measures we took in the field of the financial market during our reign, and they have received support from us under this government when they have promoted a few - not very many - changes in financial market regulation. I consider it a strength that there is indeed broad consensus in this area. Then we also have to add that Norway has had a banking crisis before, and that has helped us a little in the face of new crises.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1275	It is true that the rich have taken out a lot of capital income. It was fairly well arranged by the previous government. Otherwise, I was going to say that we are now experiencing an interesting and sober post, almost free of polemics, from our former finance minister. It's a new Per-Kristian Foss we experience in the Storting by day, and it's joyous. The right line has been a tighter fiscal policy during this major period, i.e., in good Norwegian: less government budget. That would give you a lower interest rate. We know that the changes have been small, and the funding has partly not been present. But what's interesting now is, what's going on? It would be nice to hear the Honourable Former Minister of Finance's assessment of fiscal policy next year. Is there now a need for more expansive fiscal policies, which allow for increased public investment, in order to strengthen activity, for example in the field of transport? Is there room for a revision of the Right Line in this magnification period when it comes to the debate for the rest of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1286	I'm very glad that every time I've made a post in this big time period we're in, on different topics, the representative Lundtigen has met me, either on the pulpit or in the dungeon, by saying I'm new. To put it like this, it gives hope to old people. But I think I've said a lot of this before. Let me say that I've never been a member of a pure liberalism. I have thought that a free market actually also requires quite strong authorities, strong supervision and regulation. In particular, it concerns the financial market. What kind of budget do we need now? I would like to say that we need a budget that makes it possible for the interest rate to go down gradually, although unfortunately it no longer means so much for the interest rate that people pay for their mortgages, as it did before, because the market rate pulls it up. But anyway, the bottom should come down, i.e. the steering rate, and then I would recommend a budget that does not spend too much oil money, a budget that stimulates saving, and that increases labour supply. There are three good advice that I hope Lundtigen will bring on to the budget which is probably already printed and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1295	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1298	The world is facing great challenges in the years to come. The financial crisis we are in the middle of shows the need to find new tools for political governance. We need more, not less, security for most people. We need more, not fewer, boundaries for capitalism. The welfare systems and social rights of ordinary workers are under pressure in our part of the world. Defending what we've built up, attacking and developing what we've created here in the country will be a major task for us. At the same time, we are facing major changes that require leadership. If we are to be able to prevent global warming of catastrophic dimensions, we must do far more in the years to come. Again, we need more, not less, political governance. Norway is an oil-producing, oil-dependent country, and we have a broad political majority who have joined the goal of avoiding more than two degrees of global warming. In other words, we have a little bit of a job ahead of us. We know that the two degree goal is ambitious, but we also know that it's gambling with the future of the Earth not to try. So-called feedbacks, i.e. enhanced effects due to e.g. that a warmer and acidified sea is beginning to contribute to further warming of the globe may result in heating coming out of control. The warmer it gets, the more feedback we'll see, and the more likely we'll lose control. In the middle of all of this, the International Energy Agency has given us a clue as to what will become the energy needs on the earth in the future. In the IEA forecasts, we see that the need for energy in the world doubles over the next 25 years. According to the IEA scenario, oil, gas and coal may have to cover around 80 pst. of this need. This has caused the oil companies and some politicians to rejoice. This gives us secure income for the future, they say. Maybe even oil sands can be profitable? What we know about the dangerous effects of climate change is forgotten. The IEA forecasts are a scare scenario. The consequences of such fossil energy consumption are that we will receive uncontrolled global warming. In my opinion, it is clear from the sun that it is not possible to suggest that the world should meet the IEA's forecasts - while at the same time claiming that climate change is dangerous and must be avoided. If we are to meet the ambitious two-degree target, emissions in the world must start to sink late in 2015. It's not long. We must therefore already begin to convert to a new working day. The longer we wait, the harder and more expensive this will be. And the more unsafe Norwegian jobs become. As so often others: It is much better -- and safer -- to govern this politically than to leave it to the market or just wait until the oil ends. Since I believe in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, I want to work for Norway and other oil producing countries to descend to the oil extraction rate in the coming years. I want young people to see a future in alternative energy, technology development and societal climate research. I want us to look critically at our own goals of economic growth and to care more about what kind of growth we're going to have, and the distribution of this in Norway and in the world. Norway has taken some steps to prepare for a transition to the new reality. We have taken initiatives to bring developing countries into a new international climate agreement. Rainforest billions and the commitment to CO2 management are extremely important investments. Norway must be willing to contribute large amounts of money in the climate to show the developing world that we are serious. The rich countries of the world must be willing to take on the greatest obligations. It is only fair that those who have contributed most to climate change - the United States, Western Europe and individual countries elsewhere in the world - take on the greatest responsibility. Similarly, it is unreasonable for countries that have not evolved to have to take on heavy burdens while at the same time being hit hardest by climate change that will come in any case. The poor in the world must be guaranteed that they will have to raise their standard of living. We in the rich part of the world must on our side be willing to share more. We must show solidarity in practice, both with the world's poor and with future generations. The principle decision of the climate agreement that public research on new renewable energy will be at least in line with petroleum research will become important. Incentives to reduce car traffic, to put in place a common Norwegian-Swedish certification market, phase-out of oil fires, new energy requirements for construction, directives on district heating and landfill bans are important elements of the Government’s climate policy. SV believes, however, that we have only started to the extent that we have to take in the very near future. The electrification of the cap, the purification of large point emissions, the phase-in of an electric car and severe restrictions on fossil vehicles are just one of the things that need to be done. Hopefully, the quota system will help to make pollution so expensive that it will lead to important changes. We'll see that technology can become available to more people. However, the allowance system has clear limitations on predictability. That is why the politicians - we - have to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1331	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen spoke a lot about important things that the Christian People's Party agrees with, that we must fight poverty, and that we must fight the major climate challenges internationally. What she didn't talk about in her post, but as she's been busy many times before, is that there's poverty in Norway. Despite the fact that we have never been as rich as we are now, the differences in people in our country have increased, and the poor have become poorer at a time when we have a lot of money. Does the representative not see that the government has failed to achieve a real poverty pact, that they have not targeted it enough? It's bad when poverty hits children and small children's families. The Christian People's Party believes that we can have many targeted actions against them, for example. income-rated parental payment in kindergartens - it shall be about free of charge for those who have poor advice, to have children in kindergarten. Why is SV not concerned with targeted poverty initiatives here in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1338	Some of the most targeted initiatives we can have are precisely those that reach everyone, for example. that all children have the opportunity to go to kindergarten, that kindergarten is cheap enough for it to be possible, and that child protection is provided in a way that allows children of families who have poor advice to go to kindergarten free of charge. This is one of the most important things we can do. Getting a school that's completely free is also a grip that this government has taken. It's extremely important to reach all children, and it's very focused. What I felt was very important to the previous government, and especially to the Right, was to prevent those who didn't need any of the established arrangements from getting them, instead of making sure that everyone who needed the arrangements actually got. I thought that was a big distinction and a suspicion of people who could not participate in the labour market in the same way as other people. This made some people feel that they never came upstairs, never got the opportunity to qualify and contribute to society in the same way as others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1345	The representative of Thorkildsen made a clear statement to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that we need to reduce climate emissions by 2015 if we are to reach the two-degree target. The representative also said that oil-producing countries must slow down their production. She didn't mention Norway, but I expect it to be implicit. In the throne speech that was presented on Thursday, the government's energy message was not mentioned in a single word. It is in this message Government, among others. shall present its oil policy. Why isn't Thorkildsen's involvement in the throne which was presented to the King and the Stortinget last Thursday?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1352	I mentioned Norway in my post. I'm concerned that we also make sure that we get a change, so that we don't contribute with our policies to creating so big a problem in the world that it won't be possible to achieve the two-degree goal. It's going to take a lot of us in the future. To the question of the energy message: I am proud that we have actually set a new name for what used to be the petroleum message. I think that is a clear signal. We're going to bring this message in the next year, and that's the energy policy in a broad perspective we're going to look at. And if there's something that's clear, it's that we can't go on either in Norway or in the West in a way that meets the IEA's horror scenario -- not forecast, but horror scenario -- where 80 pst. of the dual energy demand shall be covered by fossil energy sources. We can't go there, nor can Norway go. We need a conversion to renewable energy sources, and that is, among other things. the energy message shall watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1359	Thorkildsen's posts were interesting, because she took up some of the naturalities. Everyone on Stortinget wants to bet on renewable energy. The Progress Party has also called for a commitment to green certificates, and there has never been a proposal from the Government that has been downgraded in terms of renewable energy. But what one discusses in the trade is how one can get there, from going from fossil energy to relying more on renewable energy. All our neighbouring countries are concerned that Norway should increase its exports of oil and gas. The head of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that Norway has nothing to be ashamed of as an oil and gas producer in the next ten years, and the research industry says that the oil industry is an important driver, a necessary driver, in order for Norway to become a major player in renewable energy. At the same time, the representative Thorkildsen goes into dn.no and says that one should no longer allocate search space, and one should politically direct youth away from petroleum-related research. What kind of reality does Thorkildsen live in when she can say such things despite all the professional bodies' statements?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1364	I think those who are in a reality that's a little bit side by side with the reality that others are living in, it's those who think we can only meet IEA's scenario of how the world is going to evolve over the next 25 years. It is very good for the Progress Party, because the Progress Party does not believe that climate change is man-made, and therefore it is not necessary to achieve a two-degree target. But for us who believe in it, this is terribly serious. That means we have to make sure that we have a plan for how to bring down the emissions. And it doesn't just help to make sure that we get enough renewable energy -- then we also need to replace fossil energy use with renewables, use energy in a sensible and efficient way, and stop wasting. It's the challenges we're going to face in the future, and that also means that we need to encourage young people to move towards the renewable energy sector, towards technology development, which means that we're going to get the promise we need to get out of the trap we've set ourselves. Then we also need political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1372	A Swedish researcher wrote a few years ago that people who have a lot of open gay people are doing better. It's not because gay people are good at starting flower shops and design shops. No, it's about the attitudes in these societies. Studies tell us that there's a good place to go where there's diversity. Many things are profitable. Discrimination is a bad social economy because we do not apply all the forces. That was the starting point of the work movement when we created a society where the workman should have the same opportunities as the director's son. That was the basis of the women's struggle. And we know that women's professional participation is one of the main causes of the level of wealth we have in Norway. It must be the starting point for our work on a universally designed society, where people with disabilities are better able to participate. That is why we are proud of the new Discrimination and Availability Act. We must use the experience gained in combating discrimination against women in our work against discrimination against people with disabilities and ethnic minorities. Too many people with a minority ethnic background are systematically underestimated in the labour market. When we introduced an obligation in the country to call one person with ethnic minority background in an interview, we got 22 pst. the job. There must be positive discrimination if we are to use all the resources of society. Unemployment is now halved among immigrants. It's gone from 9.2 pst. from 2005 to 4 pst. today. And the decline is greatest among Africans. We who are concerned with family values must have respect for all kinds of families. So it was with pleasure that I found that the Højbråt had Donna in ‘Mama Mia!’ as the framework for his post here today. It is, as you know, not a family with mother, father and child, but a family with one mother and three alternative fathers. It shows that society is moving forward, and I'm glad that the tolerance has absorbed all the parties in this room. But we also have to respect gay families, and we'll probably see that for all parties in a few years. That's why we're proud of the new marriage law. For all families, equality is the way to safer growing-up conditions for our children. Among those who claim to have a more even distribution of housework, there are fewer divorces, and more children are born. Lack of equality is a threat to the family. Safety and stability in the family are best taken care of with the smoother distribution of domestic duties. That is why this is a political objective. But we have to be careful to glorify. For many, family life is not that easy. Because when social networks with the large family go away, the family becomes even more vulnerable - until it explodes when the children become young. Many of the children who have grown up with alcoholism, violence or other abuse say later in life that they tried to tell someone, but those who should understand did not understand, or it was perhaps too hard for adults to realize. In a welfare society, we need to care more about the kids of others. We have to make a settlement with Norwegian politeness culture, where we tell ourselves that we have nothing to do with it when we see clear signs that kids are suffering. We have to report. If more doctors dared to ask about alcohol use during pregnancy, the number of children with alcohol damage could have been reduced. If several pre-school teachers, teachers and SFO staff had reported, the measures could have taken place earlier. And if we had intervened equally often against care failure in families with minority backgrounds, several minority children would have been spared less protection than children with Norwegian parents. Care failure cannot be explained. We have started work on coordinating assistance services for vulnerable children and young people. Children and young people should not tell the same story to health nurses, doctors, teachers, specialised educators, socionomists, child protection educators, psychologists and psychiatrists. They're not going to deal with the different trade traditions, the different helpers that don't talk to each other. Therefore, one of the most important tasks of the welfare society in the future is to ensure that we coordinate welfare measures. That is why we needed the NAV reform. Therefore, we need better cooperation between health services at local and hospital level. And that is why we need corresponding coordination reforms for vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1395	In the non-meeting period of the Stortinget, we have seen in the media some examples of marriage-like and marriage-like ceremonies in the Norwegian Church where gay couples are involved -- this despite the fact that there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget that such weddings were to take place only when the Church had a liturgy in place and a consensus in this field. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State assess a breach of the agreement of the Stortinget? What will she do with the matter, and how does the Council of State react to the fact that her colleague, the Minister of Justice, went out against a bishop who actually chose to deal with the decision of the Stortinge? In my view, bishops who want to relate to the great majority should have praise and support from the Stortinget and state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1402	The decision in Stortinget is clear. We've passed a marriage law that gives the Church the opportunity to marry homosexuals, but there's no obligation. It's up to each and every religion, including the Church, to deal with. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to have a public discussion of what one believes about the Church, among the members of the Church. That is why I would like to welcome a discussion about this. But the big decision, which the Progress Party voted against, is clear: we do not impose on the Church any obligation to dedicate homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1409	The most important task of the welfare society is coordination, said the Council of State. I agree that coordination is important, but it is also important that we actually have something to offer the children we are talking about. And what I want to ask is about those who have it all, the most difficult, namely children's protection. For now, that topic has been a review melody throughout this period, from the Council of State to the Council of State. And what we see is a government that will do almost everything at once. Bufetate must find its organisation, its financial management. You have to build state places. You have to phase out the private actors. You have to find out who's going to be on the tender, etc. In short, there is a lack of prioritisation, and unfortunately we see that the children pay. The last thing we've seen is 20 pst. increase of emergency positions. Then is my question to the Council of State: is she going to put the fight against the private institutions on ice and maybe let the children get ahead of ideology, and make sure that those who need it the most here in society get the places they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1416	It's the Right that has an ideological approach to these questions. Half of the institutions we have are now private. The change we've made in relation to the previous government is to take out the ideals in a separate round. If the Right got what they wanted, we would have had several private solutions, several bidding rounds. It had created more uncertainty. So we have a very pragmatic relationship with this with private versus state institutions, because we're concerned with the best of the children. We have also extended the tendering period to six years because we are going to create more security for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1423	The recent development of child protection is alarming, and the child ombudsman has also been on the job in recent days. Buffetat with his team was set up to help, guide and help find the best solution for each child. We are constantly getting feedback that cooperation between state and municipal child protection is too poor. This, too, with the use of tenders, as it is done today, focuses on price and quality, it is said. We are concerned that many good child protection measures will have to close the doors. The reform of child protection started with a desire to remove the expensive private bad institutions. We had to build up public, which is done. We also made an exception for non-profit institutions in the case of public acquisitions. My claim is that child protection requires strong political governance. I think the Council of State agrees with that. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that it focuses on the best interests of the child rather than on offers and prices? And will the Council of State ensure that national and municipal child protection works better together?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1430	With regard to the EEA Agreement and the Public Acquisition Act, it is that when we have private items, we cannot go beyond competition. But we've given the ideal institutions a priority. I'm assuming that both of our parties are busy. We have also extended the tendering period, so that it is more secure. I am also concerned that there should be a good framework for child protection. When we took over, child protection was criticised by the National Audit Office because sufficient financial resources had not been used. That is why we have greatly increased the appropriations for the protection of state children. It's been 25 pst. increase. It means more safety for the children. I think that's the most important thing we can do. With better coordination with the municipalities - we have signed an agreement with the KS and several agreements with the municipalities for better coordination - child protection is under much better control now than when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1440	Energy issues are particularly important for our common future, both because secure access to reasonable energy is a prerequisite for the economic growth and development of our and others' wealth, and because energy issues are so closely linked to many environmental challenges that need to be addressed. With the world's population growth, and the demands for clean water, enough food and material wealth that follow, you can expect world energy consumption to double over the next 100 years. This presents significant challenges, but also huge opportunities - challenges because the fight for safe energy access can be both hard and unfine. This is illustrated by the conflicts and uncertainties surrounding Russia’s gas supply to Europe. But there are also opportunities, because Norway has almost all the conditions in place to be an important energy nation in the future. We have a lot of oil and gas, hydro, wind and bioenergy. We have competent energy and industry clusters with historical ballast and a willingness for innovation in the energy sector. It bubbles over by good power projects, both large and small, and there are exciting thoughts every day. What is missing is political leadership and organisation. The Trontal confirms this by the complete absence of both visions and warning of measures for the oil and energy industry. Perhaps not so strange, when this government's energy policy is marked by an annual change by the Minister of Energy, as well as a sustained dispute over the direction of petroleum and energy policy. It is not reliable for the industry when red-green politicians travel to Lofoten to demonstrate against decisions they have voted for. It does not create predictability when the Minister of Energy is cheering over several power lines abroad, while his own bankrolling representatives go out into the media and will cut them. There is clearly a conflict when the red-green energy politicians want more hydropower, while the red-green environmental politicians reject this. It does not help the industry when the Center Party Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa admitted in the media in 2005 that the Soria Moria declaration was self-contradicting around green certificates, without any of the three energy ministers cleaning up. Nor is it very credible when SV in this pulpit says that Norway should reduce the focus on petroleum policy, while the Prime Minister last week was in Brazil and would increase Norwegian activity on petroleum there. In the last three years, the red-greens have held a lot of celebrations about energy, but the industry is still sitting on the fence. One waits to invest, and many of the project plans remain plans. And I understand them. The wind industry has experienced an annual change in the framework conditions. During the red-green government, the three-year wind power industry has had three different support systems, while the small and bio industry, promised a support system in 2006, has nothing to do with. The pioneers who are betting on immature technologies are moving abroad. Last Thursday, I was at the Scan-REF conference at Lillestrøm - the big renewable conference of the year. There, the Norwegian Minister of Energy gave a celebration of renewable energy - full of words of honor, but bare of means and depth. Then he ran out of the hall, while the German Minister of State for the Environment took the podium. Our Energy Minister should have been seated, for he would have had a lot to learn about both reality, challenges and a realistic approach to the industry. There was more than one industrial actor who said loudly afterwards that he would like to operate in Germany. I am not surprised that this is the case, because the entire solar energy investment in Norway is a reality as a result of German energy policy, not Norwegian. The Trontal should signal that Norwegian action paralysis was now over, but it persists, unfortunately. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled 25 proposals to the Committee on Energy and the Environment during this period. Many of them are about energy policy, and how we can turn Norway into a foregone nation. We want a dynamic and value-creating energy nation. We want to stimulate the energy industry to expand new production through predictable and robust framework conditions. We will stimulate the industry to invest in new energy technologies, both to meet our national energy needs and to become an actor in the world market. And we want to stimulate business to use energy at home, so that we can export more energy-rich products rather than just export raw materials in the form of gas and electricity. This will require some changes to the current policy stance. We want to make sure that the power industry participates in a green certificate system where small power is also allowed to participate. All parties were for green certificates, but no one has been willing to put the framework conditions into practice. As a result, Norway is not allowed to participate in the Swedish market. We'll bet on hydropower. There is a large potential both within new and existing hydropower that can be realised without requiring new, large dams or interference in protected areas. But the framework conditions did not come. We will involve the local population to a greater extent, so that small-scale and wind power projects can be realised faster, but also so that bad projects can be speeded up. Seven years of waiting in the NVE is unsustainable, and Norwegian society is losing millions and billions of dollars on this delay. We have great opportunities as an energy nation, but it requires political action and organisation. When the energy message that has been notified is first presented in the new year, it is too late for it to mean anything for this effort. We've got another year ahead of us waiting, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1471	For natural reasons, I attended the newscast this morning. One of the main innovations was that there are concrete plans for the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway, especially in the border region. In the same news item it was claimed that the representative of the Progress Party Solvik-Olsen is a hot and eager supporter for this project. I have registered that the representative over several years has been an active driver for the development of nuclear power plants in Norway. This is why: Does the correctness of Solvik-Olsen want to place a nuclear power plant in one of the densely populated areas of the East, more specifically the border area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1478	I thank you for the question. Since April 2006, the Progress Party has been trying to get a debate on nuclear power in Stortinget – not because we want to build nuclear power in Norway as quickly as possible, but in recognising that the energy challenges, the environmental challenges and the climate challenges we have need to think new, both in order to secure energy supply and to reduce environmental challenges. Then nuclear power appears to be something one must at least dare to discuss in this country - not as we often experience, that a reference to decisions taken in the 1970s, and stand firm on them, without seeing what happens. There has been a huge development in the nuclear industry. Many of the challenges associated with the Chernobyl accident are now largely solved. The safety issue is completely different now from what you experienced in Chernobyl. When Finns now build their fifth nuclear power plant, it is so safe that you can fly a Boeing into it without any risk. The problem of waste is largely solved. This should help Norway to develop further, when all neighbouring countries build nuclear power or maintain nuclear power production. But there should not be a need to build nuclear power in Norway for many years yet if we use our renewable resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1490	When the Peace Prize winner Al Gore visited Norway, the representative of the Progress Party in the Energy and Environment Committee stated the following: ‘Al Gore has little more to tell Norway than to continue to scare people into thinking that they are environmental hosts. It's wrong." Is the representative of Solvik-Olsen still behind this opinion? The representative of Solvik-Olsen has also, on several occasions, been critical of the conclusions of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which received the Peace Prize together with Al Gore. Unlike the Progress Party, SV and the Government take the warnings from the Climate Panel seriously. The government has therefore, in the same way as the EU, laid the two-degree objective at the heart of its climate policy. Does the Progress Party believe that it would be appropriate to risk a global warming of two degrees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1502	I stand by what I said about the Peace Prize winner Al Gore. He adds very little to the scientific climate debate in his presentations. He adds very little about solutions in what he comes with. But of course he draws attention to an important issue. When you think about what you're doing politically, my criticism of Al Gore and others from the environmental movement is that they're helping more to make a scare debate, that they scare people away, so you don't get an equally realistic policy. The Progress Party has presented in Stortinget a comprehensive package of measures that would reduce CO2 emissions, both in the form of national measures, in the form of research and development of new projects, how Norway should operate abroad, and which premises Norway should have to participate in an international agreement. So the entire part of the debate that SV is asking for, the Progress Party has been part of for a long time. Our challenge is that the Government will not admit that the Progress Party has a policy in this area, by refusing to participate in negotiations on climate policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1512	The representative of Solvik-Olsen is busy with the country's access to energy, and that's important. Earlier in this fall, the Government, in conjunction with the Left and Christian People's Party, made a historically important decision that will guarantee the community control over our important water power resources. Not surprisingly, both the Progress Party and the Right voted against, since both of these parties, and especially the Progress Party, have fixed a greater privatisation and opening for the sale of Norwegian water power resources. In the media, we hear that the Progress Party is sailing high on the polls. They're prepping on government power, we get right. My question to Solvik-Olsen is as follows: If so bad, is it that the Progress Party is still going to fight to privatize and sell out our water resources to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1519	I think it is quite humiliating to the political debate that we still have the rhetoric that the representative Sande has here - despite countless contributions from the Progressive Party and Right representatives when we discussed the case of the fall-back. There has never been a measure for either the Right Party or the Advance Party to privatise the hydropower to sell it abroad. On the contrary, both the Right Party and, in particular, the Advance Party have said that this should be done, one must have a State pre-emptive right in transactions, precisely in order to ensure that Norway has control of hydropower. What distinguishes us is that the Progress Party has a vision of how to use the hydropower to ensure industrial activity and to ensure that the population has access to reasonable energy. This government has never, nor other government options, ever had the aim or the ownership rights it has, to ensure that industry actually gets to buy cheap power. They lose it now when the industry no longer gets its own. Nor has it had the aim or policy pursued to ensure that consumers have access to cheaper energy than the market provides. So what's going to be the consequence of the government's policy is that now the state is going to use market forces even more to sell the energy to Norwegian consumers. I think that's the wrong policy when you could make sure that the industry owns it and becomes an export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1526	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1529	Better care for the elderly is and will be for many years ahead of one of the foremost issues of the Christian People's Party. The number of interventions for better care for the elderly was very short in the throne. There is no lack of intentions from the Government, but there are no concrete measures. The Christian People's Party expects the Government to follow up the old-age agreement that was concluded between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties almost a year ago. This agreement laid the foundations for strengthening the rights of the elderly through a guarantee of dignity. For it is not obvious today that older people get the help they need. But it should and should be a matter of course, and stronger rights-fixing along with greater consequences if the rights are broken will contribute to it. One thing that can never be adopted or recognised is that senior care staff should meet the individual with respect and dignity. Attitude-building work and room for ethical reflection through ethical committees in hospitals or the municipality are therefore crucial. Employees in the care of the elderly face ethical dilemmas, and these must be lifted up and up. Greater competence and better quality must ensure better services. It can be done in a number of areas, such as meeting the point of the old age agreement on better financing arrangements for the vocational schools in health and social matters from 2009. Furthermore, according to the agreement, ten specialists in the disease of elderly people, geriatrics, are to be trained each year. So far this year there's reason to fear that the number is much lower. For a year overtime, the government has still not completed the action plan on specialist health services for the elderly, a plan that the government has announced would finance over the year’s budget. The government cannot count on better care for the elderly. The measures must be proportionate to the need for services. The Minister of Health and Health knows that the number of new hospital and nursing homes planned by the Government up to 2015, which is 12 000, is much lower than the real need. These include: the need for 20 000 more designated sites only for demented areas. It doesn't make any sense to explain how many billions are invested in this, when it will still mean that it will be more difficult to get a hospitalized place when you need it. We're getting more and more older. The same applies to the need for elderly care employees. It is also not useful to count the number of people who have a job in the municipal care sector when the government cannot answer whether this has benefited the sickest of the elderly. The needs of the sickest of the elderly are the most markedly produced today, at least on my travels to nursing homes around the country. That's one of the biggest problems. Finally, I want to draw attention to what I see as an alarming development in mental health protection. It is a desirable development that people with mental disorders should be treated in the community where possible and that long-term housing should be avoided as far as possible. At the same time, such reconversions of services must mean that patients end up with better health services than they had. The competence of employees must be continued and further developed. The money spent in the institutions must accompany patients to the community. There are now too many examples of this not happening, such as: The National Association of Survivors of Psychiatry documents. I'm glad that the government in the throne is warning a continuation of the commitment to mental health. However, I have problems seeing how the government will handle it without any further designation, when we see that even in the last year of the escalation plan, treatment is under pressure. In particular, this is about the long-term ill, but also about the youngest with mental problems. We have examples of several institutions in psychiatry, which are supposed to take care of children and young people who are being wound up, or departments that are being closed without actually getting an offer to those who live there. We saw in Focus the other day a young girl who did not know before the last day before the institution was closed, where she would get her offer. This is not good enough, and it is unworthy of our mentally ill young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1552	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1555	The party leader of the Christian People's Party has earlier today stated that he should be even clearer than the leader of the Left in the question of a possible future government from the other side of the politics. A few days ago, the representative Sponheim stated that it is not appropriate for him and the Left to participate in a government that opens up oil drilling outside the Lofoten and the West. We know that there's a completely different view going on in the Right in that case. Since the leader of the Christian People's Party has promised to be clear, I would therefore allow myself to ask the representative, Mr. Davøy, about the following: Is it not appropriate for the Christian People's Party to participate in a government that opens up oil drilling in the north-west parts of the Northland?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1564	Like the Left, we're also very concerned about these environmental issues, and as far as we've been discussing this in the Christian People's Party, it looks like today that it will also be irrelevant for us to allow this drilling.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1569	The representative Davøy and I are concerned about child protection, and various things concern, as a look-up last week and also earlier. Trude Ringheim writes in Dagbladet on Sunday: ‘Davour is shocked. She is disappointed that the state at the Children’s, Youth and Family Catastrophe focuses on reducing prices and fears that many good child protection measures will disappear. [[Buf-etat]] Deceptive criticism appears to be hollow. Has she forgotten that she was the Council of State when the reform was introduced? Did she really think that it wouldn't have any human costs to put children on the market?" This government has strengthened the state child protection by over 700 million. kr because the Riksrevision said it was underfunded when the representative was the Council of State. Does the representative not think that the underfinancing has made us in the situation we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1579	I think it's quite funny and pleasant to have questions about child protection three years after I left as a state council, and five years after the reform was introduced. It is not certain that Ringheim in Dagbladet has found that the child protection reform was absolutely not about putting children on the market. What was important, and as May Hansen probably remembers, was that we should have better cooperation between the municipality and the state. We wanted to get rid of the most expensive and worst private institutional services, which was also done. At the same time, we built new state, public institutions for the children who had the most difficulty, and then we actually made exceptions for private non-profit institutions. The problem today is that we have a government that also allows tenders within the ideal private institutions. This is a major problem for child protection today, as the report under the current government shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1585	The representative, Bavøy, has a strong social commitment that is very clear. I know that she travels a lot around, and I know that she travels a lot around and also sees that there is a lot of positive and very nice both in the care of the elderly and in the field of mental health, etc. So the situation shouldn't be painted black. That's what I think it's important to underline. The government has launched a series of measures, skills-raising measures, etc., which make it very exciting in this sector to inspire those who work there to think again. My question to the representative Davøy will be: if we go back to the last great period, and if the Christian People's Party is going to look a little ahead, where does the representative Davøy think it's easiest to get an impact on the good, great social commitment that many of us are burning for? Is it with the center-right, or is it through a center-left?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1592	Thank you for a very exciting question. Like the representative, I agree that there is a lot of good going on in the care of the elderly, in the psychiatry and in the health sector, but it's thanks to great employees and employees. When it comes to where we can get the best impact, I want to answer it this way: I have one experience with it, after sitting in a government where we had a strong centre of gravity, and after last government, which I was so lucky to sit in for four years and have responsibility for perhaps some of the most important things, namely child protection, and where I was so lucky -- I would say -- to implement a major child protection reform, which was absolutely necessary for us to start up with. I also think that we had completed the previous agreement on the elderly in an excellent way. I have that experience, and I don't want anything against going into a new government with the same constellation -- Left, Right, and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1602	The census of the year began with the following: ‘Norway is the society of opportunity. The government’s objective is a new course for Norway.’» The rest of the census was predictable and was about which messages and propositions the Government will present during the year. People's expectations of the'society of opportunity' and the oil wealth we possess are great. It is a cross-political challenge to communicate that in politics it is always a matter of priority. For the Left, environmental and climate challenges are one of the most important areas of the year to come. The environment and nature base are important prerequisites for a sustainable economy and for a welfare country with our high standard of living. This year the Storting adopted a historical agreement on Norwegian climate policy. The opposition contributed to a more offensive, more ambitious and more committed climate policy, with more action than the Government had planned. It is great that a broad majority in the United Kingdom could finally be brought together on a climate policy that will make Norway a low-carbon society. Climate policy is also part of a forward-looking industrial policy. Strict environmental requirements, increased commitment to research and development and skills building can make today's environmental solutions tomorrow's winners. We have seen examples of this in other countries. In the environmental sector, there will be great opportunities for Norwegian operators and Norwegian enterprises in the coming years. Then it's important that we put things right and put things to work where we have a prerequisite for success. The government will also present its proposal for a national transport plan during the current period. In the census we heard that it should respond to the major challenges facing the transport sector and facilitate efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport throughout the country. The left has high expectations of the national transport plan. We expect a clear environmental profile, with clear priorities. The left expects, among other things, a strong stepping up of the railway effort. Our reputation as politicians depends on us doing what we say we do. I expect the government to have received the signals this weekend from the NHO and the LO, which also emphasize the importance of railway operations. Railway investment and other public transport are in many ways a cheek egg. It is positive for the environment, it is positive for the promotion of business, and it contributes to increased road safety. An area where I miss focus from this government is road safety. This summer has been historically tragic, with record losses of human lives in traffic. Traffic safety is of general importance. Traffic death and traffic damage cost the big community a lot -- at the top of all the human suffering. The left has expectations of an ambitious effort in the national transport plan that solves many of the safety problems we have on the road network. Life and health must be given priority over new major performance projects. The left will give priority to the measures where we get the most traffic safety back for the money, whether it be raced or narrow roads in the districts, roads that are dimensioned for a completely different traffic than the one we have today. Another important area for the Left is enterprise policy and small businesses. There have been far fewer entrepreneurs in recent years. The share is the lowest since 2000. It's an alarming, if not surprising, trend. We have a government that has not shown the will to facilitate private business, self-employed and entrepreneurs, but which is only concerned with state ownership and symbolism policies to ‘take the rich’. The welfare society of the future depends on an innovative business. The jobs of the future are not yet created, and the Left will have policies to support innovators and entrepreneurs. We must let go of those who dare to bet, and those who dare to believe an idea. For the Left it is at least as natural to create its own job as it is to find its place within the established working life. It's honorable to make money to start their own business. Norwegian business needs Norwegian owners and Norwegian entrepreneurs. Finally, the goal of the Government is a new course for Norway. If the new course is to increase the number of road accidents, stop modernising and the number of entrepreneurs continues to decrease, then I am uncertain whether a new course is wise in these areas - at least as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1640	The representative tended to be concerned with symbol politics. I agree with the representative that we should be careful about symbolism. But I have to ask the representative Tende: is there a symbol policy when the government is able to raise the minimum pension of single pensioners by 16 467 kroner? It's not a symbol policy. It's real policy, the greatest rise in many decades. As the supplementary pension for young people was increased, it was escalated by 14 112 kroner. It's not a symbol policy. It is real policy that benefits the weakest. So I think the representative Tende needs to be a little dampened when it comes to symbolism. Then I would like to ask, since the parliamentary leader and left leader Sponheim have gone so hard and said that the Left is alone in the centre, talked about propriety in the civil government and that there is no alternative to the centre, while the representative Tenden put great emphasis on environmental and climate policy: it was one party that stood outside the time we adopted the climate agreement in Stortinget. Is that where the representative Tenden and Left will turn over for the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1647	I thank you for the question. With regard to symbolism policy and what this government has provided, I must remind the representative Nordtun that this government has had the greatest room for action in economic policy. It's almost strange, I think, who has been a spectator of this for three years now, that you haven't got even more action out of the money that you've had at your disposal. With regard to Lars Sponheim's clear speech in Stortinget earlier today - and he has been clear for a long time - it is clear that I fully support it. The party of progress, as Nordtun knows, stood outside the climate agreement, a climate agreement that we in the Left are very proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1656	It was a dedicated post for the railway representative Borghild Tenden had. It is perhaps because both I and the representative Borghild Tenden were in Spain a short time ago and looked at high-speed trains. I record that the trend is very busy with this. She was in her post very concerned that it is important to build the railway and bet on the railway. But what the representative Tenden and others did not tell us when you got home is that Spain has actually built 30 000 kilometers of highway. In Norway, we have 228 kilometers of highway. Then is my question to the representative Tenden: is it that the left will continue to bet on the railway ahead of the road? The representative Tenden says that she is busy with road safety, but the best road safety option is to build new four-field highways with middle parts, which will ensure safe and good roads for those who are going to use our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1663	I thank you for the question from the representative of Hoksrud. The left will both, because that's what's wise. While the Progress Party just wants to build roads, the Left wants both. As I said in my post, we are extremely concerned with road safety. The representative Hoksrud also knows we are. When it comes to betting on physical middle parts, the Left has spent more money on it than the Government. Then we're also concerned with racially safe roads and building up the roads in the districts, so that business can get along with its goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1670	The left has a long tradition of social liberal values. The liberal, not to say liberal, is clearly seen in most parties in economic policy, while the social is often more difficult to see. Relatively small differences between rich and poor are important qualities in Norwegian society. A redistributive tax system is a key act to achieve this. It ensures that the richest contribute most to the funding of schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly. Important elements of this are property taxes and inheritance taxes, which also ensure that those who live on earned capital pay taxes. During the last year, the Left in this Chamber has gone to abolish the property tax and introduce new gaps in the inheritance tax, ensuring that the richest do not pay the inheritance tax at all. Does the representative tend to think that this is a good contribution to reducing differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1679	I thank you for the question. The left is occupied with value creation, which I spent a lot of my post on here today. We are concerned that we should get entrepreneurs and create new jobs. If there's anything the Socialist Left Party has never understood, it's just that. They should only distribute and distribute and invest in state ownership. It's not forward-looking politics, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1687	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1690	In the census, the big turmoil in international financial markets is commented on. In the United States and in some other countries, the results are dramatic. Here to the country we also notice the effects, but I hope it happens to a much smaller extent than other places. There are several reasons why Norway is better equipped than other countries to deal with the international financial crisis. Over time, this has led to a shocking and responsible economic policy in this country. Labour market conditions have been very satisfactory for some time. We'll take that to the full advantage of now a day. Furthermore, our large economic muscles, muscles that have evolved planned and under control have landed. We can safely claim that Norway has a good, modern and coherent regulation of the financial sector. Our financial institutions are basically solid. It happened, among other things. a significant cleanup in our banking system during the banking crisis only in the 1990s. Finding a better state guarantee scheme for bank customers than we have established here in the country is difficult. Therefore, most bank clients do not need to withdraw their money these days because they are concerned that the values may be lost. The guarantee is valid for a maximum of 2 million. kr per. The Commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in Article The US financial market has been rocking in its foundations. Infinitely many Americans are in a very serious miscarriage. Several European countries have also noted the economic downturn. Unfortunately, we also see unfortunate results in our own country. When the differences are so big, the main reason is that we've arranged quite differently from the Americans. We have developed the Norwegian system that has three important ingredients: firstly, we have put great emphasis on keeping order in the economy. It has been a success for most people as well as for society. Secondly, we have some governance with market forces. We have realized that markets cannot or should not be controlled by themselves. The third factor is that we have a mixed economy. It may well be that market liberalism is likely for the elite in good times. The Norwegian model, on the other hand, is for everyone, both in good times and in bad times. For several weeks we have witnessed a systemic crisis in the American economy. To a large extent, it was created by the deregulation of the financial industry. It has been a generous and uncritical lending of money almost to anyone, without adequate collateral and security. Finally, there was only one possible outcome: Bobla had to crack. Speculators and elites in the US financial market must take a lot of the debt for the crisis that has arisen. Just before the weekend, American politicians worked intensively to find a way out of the mess. That road can be long and painful to walk. The medicine that is now prescribed is no longer liberalism. It is recognised that the market cannot control itself. Therefore, regulatory measures are introduced. In the Progress Party, one is on collision courses with these experiences. Per Sandberg actually plays on the elite team of the Progress Party. He thinks that the financial crisis has caused too much, not too little, management of the eleven-ville financial markets. The draft programme of action for the forthcoming ageing period states that regulation should be completely unnecessary in a free market. The problem for the Progress Party is that the idea of deregulation is not anchored. Even in the U.S. have an abandoned scan. The lesson for the vast majority must therefore be that liberalism has failed. It's historical falsification to claim that the problems of the American economy have arisen because the government has too heavily mixed up in the financial institutions. My point is that the problems in the United States have caused the regulation to fail. Liberalism and market forces have developed freely in the past. It's the lesson that the Progress Party and also Sandberg should learn, and not talk on a historyless basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1712	‘The government will pursue an offensive European policy that takes care of Norwegian interests’, it was said in the Common Era — very good, perhaps something that seems obvious, but it has been rare for Norwegian governments to take ‘Norwegian interests’ into their mouths in recent years. It has almost seemed as if it has been a taboo to introduce the concept in a foreign policy context. Now it's centrally located in the throne, and it promises well. We had of course hoped that the concept of 'Norwegian interests' would be mentioned as leading the way for everything we did, but European policy could be a good start. Norwegian foreign policy is anything but focused. Too often, it becomes the policy of all good cases, without being sufficiently put into a Norwegian context. It is never difficult to find questions to engage in, but it must be allowed to look at our various exposures with a critical glance. And of course, it is not that what is in Norwegian interest goes at the expense of the interests of others. With predictable policies based on values such as freedom, democracy, international justice and human rights, our interests will also be very much the interests that others can subscribe to. The government points to the importance of the north. There is talk of increased operational capability and presence in the north, and this is a broad consensus. Unfortunately, however, the development of Norwegian defence activity has gone in a different and negative direction. I want to quote senior scientist Sverre Lodgaard at NUPI, who says in an interview with the Class Fight on September 3rd this year: ‘Other states are better placed to substantiate their rights with military presence, while we have neglected for a long time. We are too little aware of the political and symbolic importance of military power. A stronger presence will also facilitate the management of crises without unintentional escalation.’» Unfortunately, the slowing down of the defence that we have seen in recent years makes the situation more dangerous than if we had managed to maintain an acceptable level. During the summer we have experienced an armed conflict between Russia and Georgia, and the Caucasus map is about to be redrawn. Norway has correctly highlighted its view of what has happened. However, the census does not say anything about the consequences of this conflict for Norway. Does the Government consider our security to be satisfactory? Does the Government feel there is a need to make changes as a result of summer events? These key questions are not addressed in one word. We may get some answers in the budget that will come tomorrow, but there may not be any reason to have too much hope. With these challenges that we face at home, it must be allowed to expect that Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy consequences will be met in a credible way, and despite the fact that the Government usually has the right objectives for what to do, and how to position itself, the concrete follow-up is lacking - most noticeable in terms of defence, but also in terms of foreign policy. Norwegian foreign policy stands out, precisely because it is as wide and unfocused as it is. We need a government that puts Norwegian interests first, that dares to prioritize some tasks, and that has the ability to deprioritize others. I want to distance myself from those who had to claim that it is unsolvable to care for their own interests first. It's the opposite that's the reality. One of Norway's best contributions to peace, stability and economic development is that we are able to preserve the Arctic and the Barents region as peacefully as today. The safe use of energy resources in our areas also means a lot to the outside world. It is now important for Norway to take its challenges seriously, to adapt to the real challenges and to dare to talk about Norwegian interests in any context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1739	So far, this debate of the throne has been marked by the fact that the speakers of the government parties - and in particular the largest government party - have been almost fanatical about discussing the political and cooperation issues that are not relevant. I prefer to stick to what is current. That's why I'm going to pick such an unusual starting point as the census. It's called "Crontal." ‘The government will start work on an interaction reform to provide patients with a better and more holistic health care.’ It is a moderate commitment in terms of level of liability. But the remarkable thing is that the promise is made the third and last year of life of this government. If the period of responsibility had started at this end, it could have made sense. When you end the last century by making such a promise, it makes no sense. The case has a history. This government is not the first to see the need for interaction in Norwegian healthcare. The previous government set up a wide-ranging investigation committee exactly five years ago, in October 2003, called the Wisløff Committee. The main purpose of the committee was to assess the interaction between municipal health services and specialist health services and assess changes in the framework conditions in order to improve interaction, which is exactly the same as the Minister of Health now says he should start investigating. The Wisløff Committee delivered its position in February 2005, i.e. three and a half years ago. The Ministry of Health and Welfare sent the inquiry to a wide-ranging hearing in spring 2005. Hearing replies were available on 1 June 2005, i.e. more than three years ago. This government has so obviously spent three years thinking about it, before finding out that it is going to start over again, that is, working out an interaction reform. I allowed myself to ask the Minister of Health for his comments in the debate earlier today about when he expects that the results of this investigation he has now announced to the whole of Norway, which will be available in April next year - i.e. after his own time in the department has ended - be presented to the Stortinget. The council replied that it is doubtful whether he would be able to present it to the Storting before the end of this period. I interpret that as an understatement. There is no doubt that the Storting will never see the turning point of the result of this work until this ageing period is over, because this work so far is not even anchored in the Government. It is a ministerial initiative, and it is to be managed by the Council of State itself. It is at least on the side of the Norwegian investigation model, and it is far from the Norwegian model of clear lines of responsibility between management and expertise on the one hand and political leadership on the other. This should be anchored in the Government, then probably sent to the hearing - because it is not intended to implement fundamental health reforms without a democratic consultation process? If you're going to make proposals for the Storting, we're going to be at least halfway into the next big time before the Storing even intervenes with this. I think that's a pretty eye-catching touch from a government that's been in charge for three years now. We've got a new Minister of Health who's unusually good at describing problems, shortcomings and challenges. He did the same in today’s throne debate. He is excellent at describing all the deficiencies in today's Norwegian healthcare system. It just remains that he discovers that now he is in charge, and that he has been a member of a government that has been responsible for three years for nothing in terms of improving the interaction for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1760	Over the years 2006 and 2007, there have been 11,000 more annual shifts in the care sector. This is in stark contrast to the results during the time of the Bondevik II government. The growth in the number of employees in the sector between 2001 and 2005 was 500 yearly works, from 106 500 to 107 000 annual works. In 2005, 1 100 annual shifts were cancelled in the care sector, and the situation was - as I see it - completely critical in the municipalities. My question is: how can the representative pay in such a situation go out and present it as a breach of promises - I have also heard stronger characteristics than a breach of promises - on the part of the Government, when we have a prime minister who overcomplies what he has promised on behalf of the Government, namely 10,000 annual works in the four-year period to meet the challenges we have in the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1767	The math skills aren't what they were. The numbers to which the representative refers are incorrect. The official figures from the Statistical Central Bureau for the years the representative mentions - I know this because the Council of State presented the same error in a debate with me on Friday in News 18 - is that there were 6,900 new annual works in that period from 2001, not 500. There's a certain difference between those numbers. When I have criticized the constant mantra with 10,000 new annual works, and 10,000 new hands, it is because it is heartbreaking unpresist. Indeed, there has been no concern about the distinction between care for the elderly, as we are talking about at one moment, and the care sector at the other moment. What is even worse about it is that it diverts attention from what is the real challenge in Norwegian care for the elderly today, namely quality. We have 40 pst. unskilled annual work in the sector, and it might be appropriate to take an interest in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1774	I perceive that because you have previously had a sample, the Wisloff Committee, which has looked at interaction within the healthcare system, it is completely unnecessary that you start this type of work again. I see the Council of State as wanting to find concrete ways to make it profitable to treat patients, both as close as possible to the place of residence and in a chain that is seamless, so that you do not get a break in treatment, or even a type of competition between different treatment sites. Since wages believe that it seems relatively unnecessary to address this work now, given that investigations have been carried out before, can wages be precise as to what kind of solutions he sees himself looking for to improve interaction in Norwegian health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1781	I showed in my speech that the Wisløff Committee's term of office of confusion was similar to that stated by the Council of State that he has given himself and his group of experts, and that they are going to work on until April next year. I pointed out that after the Wisløff Committee carried out a normal consultation round, all the material was gathered together, but since then no one has heard anything more about it from the time that the current government took over. Then you come after three years and inform the Stortinget in the throne that you have to start work on an interaction reform. That's what I'm criticising, because the work on the interaction reform started five years ago, and it's not credible to invent the powder when the powder is invented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1786	This is with respect not to give an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1792	It is interesting to hear the representative of Wage wanting to invest more in the care of the elderly, to invest more in the care sector, to invest more in the drug sector and at all those who have difficulties in Norway. It's good for the Center Party to hear that bet. At the same time, other representatives of the party come in to the right and say that now we need to invest more in communications, we need to take advantage of the opportunities. Does this mean that the Right Party will reorient its economic policy in the debate we get from tomorrow and beyond? Will one have a more active government budget adapted to the welfare challenges we face, adapted to the investments needed in communication and in the transport sector, and adapted to the private economic activity we are now looking forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1797	As far as I know, the representative is Lundt owns a member of the Financial Committee. In other words, he has followed closely the debates on the state budget over the last few years and has probably also studied the alternative budget proposals of the Right every year. Then he will probably have noticed that right throughout this period has marked the priority of rehabilitation, including the drug field and including the special care of the elderly patients' needs. We've done that by adding to the government's $500 million proposal. kr every year. That is not the approximate order of magnitude of the challenge we are facing, but 500 million. kr would have made a not insignificant difference for those who need this help. That is why I find it boring that the government parties have voted down this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1802	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1805	Many speakers here have taken the lead in the international financial crisis, which can also be noted in Norway, but which is particularly at the top of the international agenda. Several have been within the two other major global challenges that we notice very clearly this year, and will mark for years to come. Poverty and the food crisis we are experiencing this year have been called the silent tsunami of the World Food Programme and can be marked to an extreme extent by the poor countries in the world now. The global climate challenges are, in my view, the biggest challenge we face globally in the next hundred years. I'm saying this because I think that this development has at least two things in common. First of all, they have in common that the ideology that says we should not control the market, that it is not necessary to let human needs control market forces, has made mistakes in all three areas. Internationally, we now see a trend that is moving towards stronger political governance, closer and more committed cooperation and greater commitment to others' problems -- too late in that direction, in my view, but with many steps in the right direction. It was later demonstrated by the fact that politicians who have not previously marked themselves as strong market critics are now appearing in the context of the international financial turmoil. It would have been a great paradox if the party that does not believe in climate problems, which is skeptical about development aid, and which is against political regulation in the money and credit markets, would have more to say in Norway, while we are experiencing the opposite internationally. The other thing that these problems have in common is that more knowledge is a central part of the solution. More knowledge, skills and top research are needed to solve climate problems and poverty challenges, but more education is also one of the key solutions to the poverty problems of third-world countries, for poor countries struggling with their own development. For Norway, it's the same image. 85 pst. of Norway's national wealth is so-called human capital, that is, the value of our future and current work, what we have in our heads and hands of knowledge. Increasingly, there is a need for more people with education in the years to come. Kindergarten and school are the backbone of the knowledge society. That's exactly why the government has invested in education into one of its most important areas and will continue to do so. More elephants need to learn more. It is serious that many elephants struggle with lack of basic knowledge, both professional and social - not least that many labor with language, reading and writing. If you read poorly, you may have problems in most schools, you will have major problems in the labour market and in many areas of life later. That's why we have to have, and we've had, own bets in language and real science. That's why we're now focusing heavily on more skills for teachers, on a better teacher's education, because we know that teachers may be the most important thing for what students learn. That is why we need to put more effort into early action. Early effort means dealing with problems while they are small and can be solved, not allowing them to grow large and too difficult to solve - therefore several teachers in Norwegian and mathematics on the first to fourth steps and closer follow-up, among others. with multiple screening samples. Several elephants must complete the further education. It is very serious that one of three elephants does not complete further. That means that many people lose the job opportunities they could have had later. It's serious for society, because we all need their abilities and all their knowledge in society. Several elephants must thrive and master in the school. I'm worried that we don't see a drop in bullying in Norwegian school, even though many Norwegian elephants are happy at school. I'm busy building on and having an inclusive common school in Norway. The fact that we have avoided privatization of the Norwegian School, that we have a common school where everyone meets in the same arena, is an important starting point for us to continue to bet on knowledge in Norway. And then we're going to continue to make the last remainder of the great kindergarten revolution, come in full measure when it comes to full kindergarten coverage, still falling prices -- not least, more emphasis on the content and quality of kindergartens for years to come. We will continue to invest in knowledge, which is absolutely necessary for the young people of Norway, for the Norwegian community and for the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1825	The Progress Party has repeatedly highlighted the importance of private kindergartens in order to achieve the goal of full childcare. If full coverage is to be achieved, private players are absolutely central. TV 2 could report yesterday that, as a result of the government's policy, a total of 94 private kindergartens have been closed in Norway this year, many of them in municipalities that lack total space. The ground is relatively obvious. Private kindergartens have much less to do than public kindergartens do. The council said, according to TV 2, that he would look at the matter. Some suggest that he will actually act on the matter. My question to the Council of State is: Isn't it soon to act, before the government's policy on private kindergartens leads us into disaster?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1834	Catastrophe is the worst description of childhood development I've heard in recent years. I am very busy that there should be good conditions for private kindergartens. So is it. That's why a lot of new private kindergartens have started in the last few years. It's an important part of babysitting. But every year some private kindergartens are laid down. The important thing is that a lot more kindergartens, both private and public, are started. Many of those who have been laid down are older family-run kindergartens, which have been replaced by newer kindergartens, both private and municipal. I'm still so busy with this that I want to repeat here that we're going to go in and look at every nursery on this list to see what's right, see what's the reason, because it's necessary to follow kindergarten developments closely when it comes to both municipal and private kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1843	Since the Tora Aasland Council is not here, and since it is Bård Vegar Solhjell who is the Minister of Knowledge, with the overall responsibility of the Department, I want to ask questions about research. Thor Egil Brådland, secretary-general of the SV’s big business group, said in an article on the website Verdentilvenstre.no on 27 August: ‘The research effort has to go down. Too much money is spent on research in Norway. Research efforts should be reduced by SEK 1,5 billion.» What he was aiming for was the TaxFUNN scheme, and he repeated this message in the Sunday paper on P2 yesterday and said that it has become too expensive, just because we see that it does not work, that we have spent a lot of money, and that only one third of that money has come out again at the other end as increased research. He therefore believed that it was a little efficient, and he thinks that that money could create much more research if we had spent the money on basic funding in universities and colleges. We're not doing that today. Today, this money is being burned up. Statistics Central Bureau concludes that the SkattenFUNN scheme shows that one krone in support has given two kronor in growth in business R & D. Who's right? Is that SV? Or is it the Central Statistical Office?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1859	It is SV, who directs the Ministry of Knowledge, who is right in what we came to put forward and still wants as a policy. That's point one. We need more investment for research in the years to come. That's exactly why we've had a growth in research in recent years, and we've been busy increasing them. We're at the forefront of the loop when it comes to increasing the permissions compared to the previous government, where the Right was involved. That is also why we have had positive evaluations of the tax FUNN scheme, and it will be carried forward. The reason why we're doing this is, of course, that research and development, both public and private in Norway, are absolutely necessary to solve many of the major challenges we have. We know that Norway, especially within the private sector, is far behind in reaching the research objectives we have. So it's necessary to have good arrangements to ensure research there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1866	The Christian People's Party wants an increased focus on youth. It seems that this government doesn't mention youth. Nor has it been mentioned in the debate on the subject of the persuasion. We think it's in our youth today that we find the biggest problems, with students who are tired of the theory, with students who have a day-to-day school characterized by trouble, unrest and lack of mastery. We think -- at least that's reason to believe -- that this is much of the cause of drop-out or drop-out in high school. It's all right with early work, but it doesn't help if you forget the high school students. It is well and good with increased competence for the teachers in high school, but it does not help the theoretically weak student that his teacher is good in mathematics. We need a focus that helps the student where he is, so that you get an inclusive common school, which the Council of State talked about, and which the Christian People's Party wants. My question is, what is the reason why the government doesn't focus on the fact that there are a lot of students in the youth class who need a bigger master's arena in order to complete a higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1877	We do, and I agree with a lot of the analysis that the representative Tørersdal gave here. It is well and good with early effort, but neither is it too late. Early work will be done not only because it means early in life, but when someone tires of something in school, a person will have to get hold of it immediately. There's the youth ball, as the representative says, a very important arena, because kids go through very big personal changes, but also because the professional requirements are getting bigger. Starts the preconstruction of what to do later in life, and where to go further in school. That is why we have strengthened the counselling in secondary school, introduced the new subject of challenge choices and increased the possibility of taking courses from further education. So in 2007 - after Christ's birth - put Øystein Djupedal down a selection, the Karlsen selection, which is to deliver its setting in few weeks. Then we will come back to further action when it comes to completing the secondary school, also targeting the youth school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1885	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1888	The census of the year was very clear on the continued commitment to the joint achievement of societal tasks, to all contributing to the creation of value in the country, and to the fair distribution of goods. The government will take care of the Norwegian welfare model. One of the key factors in the Norwegian welfare model is the primary school. In its assessment of the Norwegian school, the OECD has concluded that the heart of the Norwegian welfare community is the primary school. Norwegian industry also highlights the single school as an important competitive advantage in the international market. That all students, regardless of their social or economic background, go to the same school, give us an understanding of each other as many countries envy us. The Joint School has a broad social mandate where the task is both to provide children and young people with adequate skills in subjects such as reading, writing, math and ICT, and to be a social learning venue - an arena where our children and young people learn to work and work together and thus prepare for the working and social life they will meet as adults. We have ambitions on behalf of Norwegian schoolchildren, and during this major period we have therefore strengthened quality in primary school by: broadening the hours of childhood with the strengthening of Norwegian, math and English from the autumn to increase early efforts in basic childhood skills by stepping up the teacher's density in these subjects from the next autumn - as Councillor Solhjell had entered the extended hours of physical activity from the next harvest, not least to stop the privatisation of the school, thus strengthening the Joint School's advisory service to facilitate the transition between secondary and secondary education through free education and to ensure that all pupils in secondary school have equal opportunities to complete secondary education. All of this has been completed or planned from the next harvest. All measures are aimed at providing equal opportunities for all and strengthening the single school so that it becomes the natural choice of the large majority of parents. The teacher is the most important resource for learners. The government believes that more of the teacher's time must be used for teaching, so that children experience better learning. For my part, I look forward to the announced cancellation message that comes at the end of the year. It will give us a good opportunity to discuss the teacher's role further - a teacher's role adapted to the needs of the future in initial training. However, if we are to get a good result and a decision that is collapsing, the descriptions of Norwegian teachers and the state of Norwegian school that some of the opposition have come with must be noted. Sometimes I've had the feeling that we're on the edge of the dot, and that the crisis is just around the corner. It's not like that in school. There are a lot of good teachers and students who make an amazing effort every day. The points of view need to be nuanced if we are to continue recruiting young people for the important work of providing basic knowledge and skills to our children and young people. But we have many challenges. Especially difficult is the fact that many end up in high school, as the Council of State also said. Here we're going to make a power cap. Measures aimed at both secondary and secondary education. In particular, it will continue to be important to ensure more places of learning and to introduce a new system of letters of practice for students in higher education. The aim is to ensure that school-leaving students continue to receive training, thus reducing the drop-out rate. There are a lot of areas in school and education I should have come up with, because there's a lot of positive going on in school. The promise of knowledge, of which it was and is a broad political consensus, has been implemented. The quality communication, which is now being discussed in the committee here in Stortinget, closes up several of the gaps we have seen in that reform, and we continue by providing clear national leadership for the development of our school. This will help bring the common school to life, because we have ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1928	A few days ago, we were presented with a throne speech that must be said to be on the level. There were very few points, there were considerable explanations, and they did their best to shade the fact that you are not doing the job. We've had three years of red-green chaos! I'm now going to do something that the Government on some points has quite obviously forgotten to do, namely read from the Soria Moria statement. I'll start with the chapter on health and care. The first indent of Chapter 9: Health and care shall read as follows: ‘The government will strengthen the economy of hospitals, so that several patients are treated and waiting times are kept low.’ Under the government we now have, only in the last year have the number of people in line increased by 20,000. The average waiting time in the specialist health service increases for every year that goes, more people come in line for rehabilitation and training, yes, we even have a government council that, during the line change today in this room, said that the last hospitals need more money. Yes, it will be very exciting to follow up on what will come from the Minister of Finance tomorrow related to the State budget. Because there is no more money going on, you say from the Government. I'm going to read a little bit more from the Soria Moria statement, and I hope the state councils come along. It's on page 40. ‘- safe rehabilitation and training for all those who need it’.» Yes, you went very high on the track to sell into the Norwegian people. Since then, every six rehabilitation beds have disappeared, waiting times are increasing and the supply of patients is getting worse. The next point I want to refer to is: ‘- intensify efforts to remove the problem of patients being placed on the hospital corridor.’ Yes, this was written three years ago. So late last week we saw the statements that there's no change in the number of corridors. The problem is as big as before, yes, some places are actually so many corridor Asians that it could be a fire trap. The next point I will refer to from the Soria Moria Declaration is the following: ‘- reduce and keep health care components at a low level.’ It is clear that the government parties have forgotten to read their own statement, because after the government joined, the excesses have increased steadily, no one has been reduced - yes, sorry, of course, the excess of 50 kroner for physiotherapy for those on the diagnostic list was removed. But then there was a peculiarity of the government itself introduced. First, a special charge of 50 kroner was introduced on 1 January, and then you got so much as to find out that you had to remove it again on 1 July. Yes, I think the government can be proud that it has at least taken away the one peculiarity that they themselves invented, which they introduced on 1 January and took away on 1 July. In any case, we have received some positive signals: there must be an interaction reform. We're looking forward to that, because we need that. We need to put in place a better treatment chain where we're talking about the whole chain and not broken and divided. I look forward to-- sorry, President, I should probably correct myself, I looked forward to this coming in April. Here it's important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth, because here it goes a little fast. We have been able to read and hear in the media about the interaction reform that was due to come in April. Today, we heard from Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that no, now it is such that this interaction reform is not at all likely to come to this collapse, because first this selection is to put a stop to the government, then you have to go back to their parties to anchor it there, and then it might come to the harvest, maybe even later. This is the last thing that's made me wonder what the government is actually going to deliver. Once again you show that there is a long way between life and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1969	I'm deeply in conflict with those who make Norway as a political plight valley where most of the things have failed, gone wrong, or gone wrong. I think we can establish once and for all that we are a privileged people and that we live in a privileged country. Not least, it's important in times like these, which fill people with anxiety and insecurity when one hears news from the world around us about the financial and economic shakes that surround us. Our country is rich in natural resources. Timely and farsighted people before us have national authority over important resources such as fish, water power, oil and gas. Long-term and national resource management has provided the basis for experience, competence, a varied business life, access to capital and large community values. As populists, we have large revenues on the basis of our natural resources; we have greater freedom of action than many other countries, even in times like these. Our generation has a great responsibility to think wisely and in the long term when these revenues are to be managed. So this government wants to bet on the big things and do the important things. Therefore, this government gives municipalities greater scope for action to preserve the community. We have to think long-term and do the most important thing first, says this government. We must take action, as this government does, to clean up and maintain our Community institutions, such as the schools, churches and cultural houses. We have to build the country by taking care of the roads we have, the railway we have, but also by building new ones. We need to secure the modern and temporal infrastructure we need for broadband, mobile and TV coverage, and that is what this government is doing. Then we must also think justice and that the whole country is going with it. All parts of the country have got more roads under this government. We have raised the level by DKK 2.5 billion, which has given more roads and more railways. We've sucked for a historic railway operation. A large part of railway investment under this government has gone to the intercity triangle in the central east region. It's a right bet. I can promise that the investment on the railways around and between our cities will continue to be strengthened over the next few years. The effort to build the country is also important to facilitate entrepreneurs and business activity. Business will have good transport supplies, so that people come to work on time, and well, so that the goods arrive at the market. They want broadband with good capacity. Similarly, trade unions strongly support such a prioritisation of infrastructure to build the country. The last time today I was at the Railway Union in LO, where a wide alliance, from the NHO to the LO--and environmental movement with--wanted stronger investment on the railway. It follows this government. We are on the right track in our commitment to modern infrastructure. We need more community, and we want to strengthen local welfare. After four years of starvation under the previous government, the red-green government, with Åslaug Haga as Minister for Local Affairs and Regional Affairs, took a boost to strengthen local welfare in the 2006 budget. This effort was continued in the 2007 budget. And the municipalities have done a good job of strengthening well-being. We have received several hands in the care of the elderly, several teaching hours in the school, new kindergartens, reinforced maintenance of schools, churches and cultural houses. We're not in the target, but cut and cut have been replaced by a new direction. We've chosen common rather than large tax rates, and that gives us results. We have a different direction than we had in the years 2001-2005, and that direction should be passed. Right has warned that in the election campaign they will tell history of the four lost years of Norwegian society. And Lars Sponheim spoke in his post today about they neglected the possibilities of their period. But every day after the government change, 190 people come to work. 190 people every day -- is it four lost years for them? Every day in 2006 and 2007, 15 new people have been added to care. 30 new hands in care every day - are the lost years for those who have been cared for? This is how I could have continued, with the kindergarten bet, with the bet on broadband, on the road and on the railway. I also don't meet anyone, when I'm around the country in local government, who wants to swallow the food from the municipalities again, which we had during the previous government. We're not done in this government. We've done a lot of work, but we've also got a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1988	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e1991	In front of both the throne and the budget, the promises have been resolved by the Government. Not least, the country's prime minister has turned around with statements like tens of billions, a boost to the road and the track, we need a power cap for transportation, and we're going to do a good job. The Progress Party agrees. We need a lift for road and track. But I've observed a few budget leaks of $10 billion on the road and track, a rise in road and track in the budget for 2009. We see in the evening post today that the construction industry is ready. The capacity has been demonstrated for overtime once again. Is the government ready? The Progress Party has the recipe: State companies receiving state loans for road and rail construction. Are the councils ready?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2000	The councils will say, "Always ready!" What is going on in the budget will probably have to wait until tomorrow. What has been warned by the Prime Minister, and which I have warned of, and which the Government is busy with, is a further commitment to commerce in the years to come. We went into a government and took over a puzzled national transport plan. Not only was he puzzled on the scale, despite the fact that today's government party by means of the Progress Party had multiples to lift this up, but he was also puzzled because he did not take the height of traffic growth, because he did not take the height of the costs associated with the individual plant and because he did not take the height of the enormous maintenance vehicle. All of this we have got on the table during this government period. In addition, we have changed the policy to speed up the implementation of projects. We have a more efficient development, and it brings greater benefits to society. We're going to bet on that, and we're also going to secure billions of dollars for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2011	We now see a sharp decline in the activity in the construction industry. The construction industry itself says that it is afraid that 40000 employees can stand without a job next year. This must not happen, of course, and a sharp increase in transport investment may remedy this. At the same time, the newly elected head of the Centre Party has called for the creation of new dynamics in road and rail development in Norway. For Teknologik Ukeblad nr. 32/September, which came out a few days ago, she said: ‘The major road and rail projects must be financed in such a way that the funds are committed over several years. We are now discussing both OPS and project financing.» The head of the Central Party's Committee on Transport Policy, Steinulf Tongesvik, former Secretary of State, said to VG in August: «We should be committed to implementing OPS projects during the next majorisation period.» He added that a joint central party committee wants more Public Private Cooperation. The question to the Minister for Transport is: Does she agree with the head of the Central Party and the Central Party's policy sample of transport, which wants to launch new OPS projects during the next majorisation period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2030	It's not a secret that's being revealed, either in the Technical Weekly or in what the leader of our society-political selection says. It is not a secret that the Centre Party is ambitious in its policy on trade, and it is not a secret that the Centre Party is open to new forms of financing and new forms of organisation within the sphere of trade in order to achieve it. We have great goals for social development, and we see that investing in culture is a key to achieving the other thing that we want, a more varied business, a bet in the whole country. Whether the Minister of Transport gets a say in what the party leader wants will depend on the internal discussions that will be related to the national transport plan. We got a challenge in the basic material from the eta. There they have outlined that they also believe that one should look at forms of financing other than that of debt today. But at the end of the day, in any case, it boils down to the will to increase the budget framework, regardless of the form a well on organisation and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2041	Governments can expect full support from the Christian People's Party in both increased appropriations and innovation around structure. But I have a very specific question for the Minister who is at the moment top-notch. It goes on the Hurtigruta and the extremely difficult situation in which Hurtigruta has come. This concerns the agreement we have, the compensation for the NOx fee, increased fuel costs and opportunities for greater flexibility, which Hurtigruta has addressed to the State for renegotiation. An overall opposition has asked the Minister on two occasions to initiate these negotiations with Hurtigruta. Now it's been a year and a half, and nothing has happened. The situation is dramatic. The director himself says that without getting the renegotiations started and getting a result from them, they sail on the ground. At a fast route seminar in Bodø, Lahnstein said that the state is satisfied with the fast route agreement. Is it the case that a Central Party minister is so satisfied with the agreement that Hurtigruta is allowed to sail on the ground, or will real negotiations be reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2053	It is important to distinguish between two different negotiations. One is negotiations on compensation for the NOx tax, which has been going on for quite a long time, and where there has been a lot of discussion about the definition of what should be covered. We have a very good dialogue with Hurtigruta on this. The second discussion is about the suspension of the existing agreement and a work to initiate a new agreement, i.e. a new one. We also have a good dialogue with Hurtigruta about that. I have met myself with the guide in Hurtigruta in Bergen. It has been followed up in recent times by dialogue, and it should be followed up. I have great hopes that we will find a solution to the NOx problem quickly, but of course it will take a little longer to get into the other issues. We have therefore asked Hurtigruta for some information of a legal and economic nature that is absolutely necessary for us. But I'm positive, as I've been all along, to help find solutions for the Hurtigruta. We're not going to sit down and watch the Hurtigruta go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2067	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2070	This throne is the last red-green government before the elections next year, and it is in this throne that the government could have made visible which priorities to make and which promises to at least be fulfilled. This census does not contain any of the parts. It is devoid of vision and priority and does not make it visible in any way that investment should be made for the future. It does not have a single word about research, only that already notified centres for climate research will be in place in 2009. Research for the rest is not mentioned in one word. And that must be because the government doesn't have enough ambitions, and is not interested enough in research. This is not a matter of single-country councils, but it is a matter of government as a college. I have to say that I am quite concerned when SV's secretary, Thor-Egil Breadland, writes in a discussion post on the website Verdenwenstre.no 27 August under the heading «Research effort must come down»: ‘Too much money is spent on research in Norway. Research efforts should be reduced by SEK 1,5 billion.» The views are repeated in the NRK P2 Sunday newspaper on 5 October, with an attack on the SkattenFUNN system that lacks all its roots in reality. What is worrying is that the same Thor-Egil Brådland is also an adviser for the SV's industrial policy fraction, and that is precisely where the SkattenFUNN scheme is located. And we've already seen the results of his advice, namely that the TaxFUNN scheme has been dramatically reduced under this government, which means that business has fewer incentives to research than they had before. So the hindrance is that we have a majority government with an opportunity to use the majority of people for something. Øystein Djupedal said in connection with the formation of government in 2005 that ‘what we will get we get’. Then it's probably the way it has to be on the will. Because with NOK 160 billion in increased tax revenue, thanks to the tax policy of the previous government, it should be possible to get things done. The truth is that while this government has had the best assumptions ever, it has not been able to give priority to the most important thing. After all, the previous government managed both to provide tax havens to secure jobs and well-being in the future and at the same time to make a major contribution to knowledge and research. So in the budgets, which are now larger than the previous government, of course, the red-green government still manages to do big cuts in important areas. All the parties in the hall here agree that we should have a good and strong public school as the foundation of education. But it is precisely within public schools that the great and systematic inequalities between students are evident. And it's serious. We have to be the best at the most important, at the basic skills, and therefore, in my opinion, it is very strange that the government does not want to do anything to set concrete goals for where Norwegian school should be, for example. for the next PISA study. Where will Norwegian school be at the next national tests? Every government has more money at its disposal than the previous one. It says it's seaworthy, because budgets are growing year by year. Therefore, it is even more strange that the Government has found it necessary to cut in essential areas. In an interview with the magazine Education exactly two years ago, on 6 October 2006, the then Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal was confronted with the following, namely that Kolbjørn Hagen, the then head of the Research Association, believed that the nursery school had gone beyond the appropriations for higher education and research. Then Øystein Djupedal answered: ‘I am proud of the kindergarten bet and do not agree with Hagen. In the university and higher education sectors, with this budget, we have a real drop of one percent. But it's wrong to describe this as narrowhanes. We have put in a rest cutting and it is well tolerated by this sector." On the same page, however, in May of this year, Djupedal says that: ‘I fought hard against the cut of about 250 million to higher education and warned very strongly Kristin Halvorsen that we were going to get criticism and lose tens of thousands of votes in higher education’. That's the last recognition of the former state council that's the right one. But it helps very little in a sector that has had to cut down on the quality of studies for two years, cut down on research, on guidance, on employment, on quality development and on strategic priorities. The government promised in the Soria Moria Declaration that the appropriations for higher education would increase. The fasitite after three years of red-green rule is that the appropriations are cut. We can also read in Today's Business today that the Government is apparently not going to give any research promise in the budget presented tomorrow, and that the Research Association is deeply concerned. Tomorrow's well-being depends on investment today, and government's policy is to spend as much of the money as possible today and draw up the ladder for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2099	The languages of the throne should address the major lines of Norwegian policy. I believe that there are no greater challenges than the man-made climate change, and that is where we really need to address it. This is a priority task for the Government. That's exactly what the census says about, too. It turned out that a large majority in this room agreed with us on this when we negotiated the climate agreement earlier this year. This shows that the Norwegian magnificence to take the warnings scientists and women are now coming along, in the greatest seriousness. I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for their willingness to support the climate agreement, and negotiated it, so that it will last for a certain period of time in the Stortinget. Climate challenges today require political leadership. Climate challenges also require a responsible and forward-looking climate policy. It is not just about extreme weather, it is also about extreme poverty. That is why climate issues are putting our solidarity to the test. The challenge of an ambitious climate policy is solidarity in practice. Millions of poor people in less developed countries than ours will be hit hard by future climate change. The fact that a social democratic solidarity party such as the Workers' Party is in the leadership in the fight against man-made climate change is therefore absolutely necessary and natural. That our prime minister could promise to support the Brazilian Amazon Fund by up to US$1 billion by 2015 during his visit to South America, is a fact of life. We put political goals and decisions into practical action every day. Energy, climate and environmental policies are not different policy areas but are closely linked. Once the government has tripled the investment in new renewable energy such as wind, small power plants, heat and energy efficiency through Enova, this is just practical political work. When our government is also investing billions of dollars in trying to develop profitable technology for cleaning and landfilling CO2 in Mongstad, this is not just theory, but policy in practice. We are transforming political goals and visions into concrete and everyday actions. Prime Minister Stoltenberg uses to say that the market is a bad gentleman, but a good servant. It's a quote that says a lot. The market cannot solve our challenges, but there is an important tool on the way to the goal. We benefit, and will still benefit, the market that serves where it is useful, but the overall objectives, the social direction, must and must be the result of political governance. It is precisely the same in energy and environmental policy. Governance is absolutely necessary anchored in democracy and political processes. When we address the challenges related to the power situation in Central Norway, as opposed to the previous government, political governance is in practice. When we tell Enova they're going to prioritize projects in Middle Norway, it's political governance. When we tell the NVE that applications for projects in central Norway will receive special attention over others, it is political governance. Yes, in fact, the whole of Enova as a tool to promote new renewable energy and energy efficiency is an example of political governance, unlike unilateral market liberalism. We believe in politics. That's why we've tripled the funds to Enova. That is why we have decided to support research and development on the capture and storage of CO2. That is why we have addressed challenges related to the power supply in Central Norway. That is why we have developed one of the world's most ambitious climate policy objectives, followed by good instruments. It is gratifying to observe that the activity on the Norwegian base is still very good. Small oil and gas companies find their place in tail production, but at the same time there are still reports of larger and smaller findings. The Norwegian administration of our petroleum resources has been, and is, very good. Good laws, regulations and taxation greatly benefit the community. At the same time, one cannot imagine that recent isolated events have fully demonstrated the importance of a strong focus on the environment and safety of these activities. Therefore, it is vital that we do not slack down on the requirements [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2135	The President has no intention of neglecting the requirements. The number time is up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2138	It has been quite special to witness the persuasive debate that has taken place today, where government parties have behaved in a way as if they were opposition parties, and made the Progress Party responsible for everything that goes badly here in the country. It's not like that. Government parties have now had three years to show their power of action, including: in the field of business policy, with which I work. The financial turmoil, the international financial crisis we are now in, has been known long before the Prime Minister wrote the census. It's been known quite a long time that we'd come into a period of decline, where, among other things. Business would have problems. The Prime Minister said in his speech today that Norway will be affected by the unrest. Our companies will have problems getting goods sold, and that is and there will be a higher level of interest. All of this is correct. What does the Government of Enterprise Policy do when we are entering a period of recession? If you were to write an article and keep it in the storeroom on the basis of what's written about industrial policy in the throne, it would be a very short post, because this year's census is almost empty of industrial policy. It must only mean that the Government is not concerned with industrial policy and that it is not concerned with industrial policy in a situation where business will start to know that it is and will become a recession. It shows that it has no targeted industrial policy. What's announced in the throne speech is an innovation message. It's all right, because innovation is important. But an innovation message has been notified for quite a while. We in the Business Committee, which has had very few documents to deal with from the Ministry of Industry during this period, have waited a very long time for the Innovation Communication. Now it might come-- we'll have to wait and see. The problem with an innovation message is that innovation takes place in business every single day. Developments in innovation will go much faster than the Government is able to develop its innovation policy. We now need an active industrial policy. We heard the Prime Minister today say that there is a distinction between those who are in favour of an active industrial policy and those who are in favour of a passive industrial policy, but he said nothing about what the Government chooses. Does the Government choose an active enterprise policy, for which the Progress Party is one of the foremost speakers, or does it want a passive enterprise policy? I just think this government has chosen a side - the government chooses a passive industrial policy. This must be done when there is no specific transmission of industrial policy documents to the Storting during a four-year period, at least not so far during these first three years of government. As I said, the Progress Party is involved in an active industrial policy, but it is important that the Government comes to the Stortinget with documents that tell what the Government's active industrial policy is all about. It hasn't. We have this, among other things. having regard to the fact that there has been a penetration in the Ministry of Industry and Trade so far during this period. There have been three business ministers in three years and none of them have had time to develop any kind of industrial policy. It's regrettable, because what business needs is an active and clear spokesman in the government. The economy needs a government council that is clear as to what is a proper industrial policy. What we need now is a policy for smaller businesses. It's the smaller businesses that are going to know the financial turmoil first. We can see that, among other things. by the fact that Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister of England, will now set up a fund for small businesses struggling with the financial turmoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2153	The management of nature is a commitment to the next generation. It is therefore very disappointing that a few years ago the Riksrevision concluded that the Storting is reversing the environmental ambitions without following up on the appropriations. The same report also highlighted major weaknesses in authorities’ efforts to identify and monitor biodiversity and the management of protected areas. The government has promised to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2010. This census does not indicate that it intends to use its last year to even try to fulfill the promise. At the same time, it cannot be characterised as anything other than an environmental policy scandal that nature and biodiversity are not at all mentioned in the Government's throne. How is it possible for an environmental nation? Most researchers agree that the loss of biodiversity is an equally important problem for humanity as man-made climate change, and the problem is actually better documented. It is not a cross-border environmental problem. Of Norway’s nearly 2,000 endangered species, 85 are pst. threatened by unsustainable land use within our own country. New bio-diverse laws have not yet come. The NOU 2004:28 study into a new biodiversity law has been on the Environment Minister’s table ever since the Stoltenberg government took over in the autumn of 2005, without any action. Norway and the environment actually need a solid biodiversity law, and we need it now. The size needs and time to, as opposed to what one has had in several other important laws, discuss it. For the Right, the promise to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2010 is absolute. It is only with new, flexible instruments that we can preserve the most threatened natural heritage before it disappears forever. Right will support a new offensive law, but if the Government does not provide robust schemes for selected species, the law should remain in the drawer of the council until we get a new government that takes the problem seriously. The national audit is quite right when it refers to the differences between the promises and actual appropriations. Even greater are the differences when you compare election vows and government policies. This is the last census of this government and the last time it can really prioritize for the entire magnification period. At least it is certain that there is no priority for the environment. In the languages of the throne, the environment gets poor three sentences - fortunately three important sentences. Let me immediately give Righteous support to them, because Norway must have an active and offensive role before and during the Copenhagen meeting next year, and the deforestation in the rainforests of the world must be stopped. That was also why the Right drew this out in the negotiations on a climate settlement. There is little evidence that Norway is a leading country in environmental policy. I have already mentioned the protection of biodiversity. Nearly half of the approximately 3,000 species currently included in the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species live in forests. It is therefore necessary to increase forest protection if we are to achieve the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. It is fully understandable that the red-green reduced the allocation to Norwegian forest protection by nearly 7 million. kr. Freedom in forest protection costs, but coercion costs a lot more. Right will be based on just volunteering, and we'll pay for it. That's why we wanted to increase the appropriations, but without getting red-green support. Unfortunately, Norway is not a leading country in the field of biodiversity conservation. With reduced appropriations for forest protection, we are actually worse off now than when SV came into government. Nor are we a priority country in climate policy. In the summer of 2007, a report on climate change was presented by the government parties, which was about bare for concrete actions. It also did so that SV's environmental spokesperson, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, even the three former government parties asked for help to tighten up the government's environmental policy. They got it. Fortunately, the EU goes significantly beyond both the Government Party’s GHG message and the climate agreement in terms of greenhouse gas emission reduction. At the EU Summit in March 2007, binding main targets for EU climate and energy policy were adopted by 2020. Unfortunately, we lack an active environmental policy. Today's government parties don't deliver at all, and we're no country in the first place. In other words, we have gone on a further break - this time in the field of environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2189	Today, the newspaper writes in the lead that it is a pleasure for the government to provide 100 new police officers in the districts for the next year. This comes as a natural follow-up to the fact that the number of new police students to next year has increased to a total of 552. Furthermore, they write: ‘This effort shows that the government is attacking crime from two sides, even last week’s criminal reform with emphasis on humane and constructive housing.’ [[...]] Security is an important welfare issue. Fighting crime requires a clear strategy and a coherent justice policy. It has the red-green majority. During the winter, proposals for new criminal laws shall be submitted. We will increase the level of punishment for killing, moral crimes and gross violence. Serious crimes are to be punished harder. At the same time, we must realize that harsher punishment is not a solution alone. If we're going to get a safer society, we're going to have to tackle the recurrent problem. More than half of those released commit new crimes over a five-year period. Then we have to ask ourselves if we're punishing smart enough. It is precisely this that is the starting point for the criminal health report presented by the Government last week. Punishment must work. High-security prisons are necessary for some. One main point is: Better rehabilitation is necessary for all. At the same time as some are to be penalised more severely, other zones should be more of their punishment outside today’s traditional prisons, for example by: community sanctions, per mille programme and compensation with electronic control. This is how we avoid many of the unfortunate aspects that prison sentences can have. Compared to prison sentences, it appears that the risk of further crime is lower for the community. Better rehabilitation is about a place to live, a living, education, drug treatment, social networks and health services. Better follow-up at end of settlement is essential to prevent relapse. The opposition talks a lot about security, but if we look at the consequences of their policy, we see that this is not the case. The Progress Party has proposed to cut the tax haven, cut the Customs and Fee Set and cut the Credit Authority. This will be disastrous not only in the fight against economic crime but also in relation to the financial situation we are seeing now. This will also be a serious setback in the fight against the introduction of drugs. We could not have doubled the control at Svinesund if we had implemented the Progress Party's cut-off proposal. Furthermore, there is a repetition from the Progress Party that they want to cut the alcohol charge. One of these cuts has two sides. Firstly, the state will lose money that today goes to the major tasks of school, health and transportation. Secondly, lower alcohol charges will lead to higher alcohol consumption, which in turn will lead to more violent crime. Only Finland can be seen, where violence statistics have risen sharply following a reduction in the alcohol levy. Fresh figures from Norway show that of all the rapes registered in Oslo last year, 60 were pst. by the perpetrators. This, of course, is also known by the Progress Party, but they clearly believe that this is not as important as getting cheaper alcohol in Norway. Oslo is the show window of the Right and Advance Party. It provides a revealing and unmerciful insight into the unsocial policies of these parties and which would probably have consequences for crime statistics later. Every day, more than 50 drug users are in line outside the action of the Salvation Army. There, drug users can work for a small sum of money instead of going on the street. They feel like they're getting to do something for themselves. The Vice-Chairman and City Councillor of Oslo, Erling Lae, proposes to cut all support for the action from the New Year. This merges into the line over the cut that will hit the weakest. Actions such as the Gate lawyer, the Juss-Bus, the Blue Cross, the Church's Bymission's Night Home, the French Council and the Court - which will help criminals back to a law-abiding life - are cut in whole or in part. In addition, Lae proposes to close the Office of Free Justice and increase the rental prices in municipal housing. Despite the fact that we know that the number of child protection concerns is increasing, despite the fact that the Oslo Police are calling for caution, the City Council is proposing to cut down heavily on child protection. In order to bring down crime, we need to help former criminals get into work, give disadvantaged children better growth and at all costs involve everyone in society. The Right Party and the Advance Party are now doing the opposite in Oslo. They make everyday life even harder for the weakest. They don't create more security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2222	I will start my post with two quotes from the throne which I have the sense of, and which give important signals if they are followed up with politics: ‘Norway shall be a peace nation and an environmental nation’;» and ‘Norway shall be a leading country in the process of sustainable development. The Government will follow up the Sustainable Development Action Plan’. Since Friday I have read a part of the Government's Sustainable Development Action Plan. It says here to read that: ‘The government’s vision is that Norway should be an environmentally friendly energy nation and lead the development of environmentally friendly energy’. The transition to carbon-free and environmentally friendly energy sources is being raised as a major challenge, especially in order to reduce man-made climate change. The Christian People's Party shares these visions, and I'm glad that the Government so clearly promises such visions in the throne. But they are of little value if they are not followed up in the policies of government from day to day, and in the matters that come to treatment in the Stortinget. In this area, the difficult issues lie in the queue, and some questions require clarification. Will the Government's visions have any meaning for Norwegian oil policy, and then specifically the question of future oil extraction in the Barents Sea and beyond the Lofoten and the Western Sea? Will the Government's visions be reflected in renewable energy policy and energy efficiency improvement? And what action will the Government take to reduce emissions from car traffic and bring forward low-emission solutions? So far there have been many words and little action by the Government. This regrets the Christian People's Party, for environmental and climate issues are important to the Christian People's Party. The government is passive to the issue of electrification of oil installations on the socket, despite the fact that they account for a quarter of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. And StatoilHydro, Norway's own state-owned shared oil company, expands its involvement beyond Norway's borders with completely different environmental standards than those accepted in Norway. Participation in the oil sand project in Canada and the search activity above the ice edge in Alaska are with the government's blessing. In this area, there is little to be seen from the Government's promises to pursue an active ownership policy. After three years in the government offices, the government opens the throne with the following Memorandum of Understanding: ‘The government’s goal is a new course for Norway’. The Christian People's Party can say nothing but that we share this objective. We want a new course for Norway. One of the first Christian People's Party would do in government would be to restore the Minister of Environment and the Minister of Aid and Development as two independent Council posts, both full-time. There is a lot of positive that can be said about Minister of Aid and Development Erik Solheim, but he cannot be in more than one place at a time. Therefore, environmental policy has significantly reduced the focus on the classical environmental and nature conservation areas. For example, the long-announced nature diversity law was not mentioned in one word in the census, nor was the motorcycling law. Today, in an hour's time, there has been a great demonstration outside the Storting for a new double track between Oslo and Ski. The Eastfold population, the Akershus population and the Oslo population are setting up, because this is what we want. The double track has been planned and promised for a number of years. In its proposal for a new national transport plan, double-track Oslo-Ski has been removed due to lack of money. The same proposal argues that it is very important to realise this within the period until 2019. The Christian People's Party has a clear expectation of the Government that this is part of the proposal that we will receive at the turn of the year. If this is not followed up by concrete action, the visions are not worth anything, because it is on concrete action we have to measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2266	Holten Hemdal started his post by stressing the importance of sustainability. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, in his speech earlier today, placed great emphasis on Community solutions, and in line with this, the Christian People's Party has been involved in many important compromises, just to ensure future sustainability, both environmental and social. At the same time, we have heard Siv Jensen say that the Progress Party is ready to go to government in the next period, and that the invitation has been sent to the other three parties. I expect one of them to be a Christian People's Party. The right and left have been quite clear in today's debate. The Progress Party must abandon its economic policy and its view of multicultural Norway. My question to Holten Hemdal is whether it is at all conceivable that the Christian People's Party will enter or support a government in which the Advance Party participates. The party declared itself to be familiar with climate change, older people’s settlements and pension settlements. Does this mean that the Progress Party has to abandon its policy in all these areas in order for civil gatherings to be realistic, as the Christian People's Party sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2274	I am absolutely sure that the representative knows the 75-year history of the Christian People's Party, where we have stood up for the broad similarities. We were part of the People's Security System. We've stood up for the pension scheme. We have faced the climate challenges. It is in the heart of the Christian People's Party's policy. But what we need is not a majority government that cracks internally, whether it's on oil policy or foreign policy. We need a government that has a majority in this room, and that can address the important issues. The Christian People's Party will go to the elections on a central policy - a government that is value-oriented with centre of gravity in the centre of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2279	The environment is important, and the environment is so lacking. The environment is important for people's woes and wells, as the party leader of the Christian People's Party was in his post. I asked questions to the party leader of the Christian People's Party about the Christian People's Party would propose to change the common marriage law. He didn't answer that, and I'm not going to ask the representative Holten Hemdal to answer that either. But we're both from Eastfold. There has been an unworthy debate in the media in the fall after the Christian People's Party group leader in Sarpsborg stood out as a homophile. The head of Sarpsborg's Christian People's Party went out publicly and said it was okay that he was gay, but if he got a girlfriend, he could no longer be the group leader of the Christian People's Party. I would like to ask the representative: is it such that one can live as a homophile and be a priest in the Norwegian Church, but not elected by faith and group leader in the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2290	The Christian People's Party believes in marriage as a good framework for adult life, and we believe in marriage as a good framework for children to grow up in, but we also know that many children and adults do well in other forms of life. In the Christian People's Party there is room for homosexuals, also cohabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2295	Traditionally, the centre parties - the centre party, the left and the Christian People's Party - have followed especially SV in some questions. In aid policy, we have had ambitious objectives, in environmental policy we have had ambitious objectives, and the centre parties have also been marked by a kind of counter-cultural tradition. I agree with a lot of what was said in the comments of the representative, but the conclusion fails, I think. For what is the answer? It is obvious that today's majority government should be replaced by a new government, some minority government based on cooperation on the right. Does the representative, Mr Hemdal, seriously believe that we will have a better environmental policy, a more offensive aid policy, more anti-cultural policy that is critical to the power of money, in a government made up of the Right, the Christian People's Party and some other party, which must be based on cooperation with the Progress Party? Does she really think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2302	The lamentable thing is that in 2005, the Centre Party chose to leave the centre, that they chose to join a government with a centre of gravity on the far left, thus contributing to the introduction of a marriage law and also to take other important valuables in the wrong direction for this country. The Christian People's Party believes in a government with a centre of gravity, a government that places the values on the agenda again, of which our country has benefited for hundreds of years, and which we will fight for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2309	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18, with Councillor Erik Solheim as first speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2339	September 2008 was for market liberalism what the fall of the Berlin Wall was for communism, that is. the ultimate and absolute death of an idea. It's not possible after what's happened in the last few weeks on Wall Street, anywhere for anyone to argue intellectually for market fundamentalism, that's the idea that the market is clearing itself up. We also see internationally that you have to search with light and light to find someone who argues for that very idea. It's about as many as those who argued for communism after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Norway is a special exception here. I sat away in New York last week and heard all the world’s Heads of State speak at the UN General Assembly. With the exception of those who spoke specifically about their own country of origin, such as the United Kingdom. Georgia's president or Serbian president, there were three issues that everyone was concerned about. It was climate change, it was food crisis, and it was a financial crisis. And that was the relationship between these three topics that dominated almost every post. What puts Norway in a very special group is that as one of the very few countries in the world, we have a party of 30 pst. digestion which has been able to answer all of these major questions on the wrong side. The Progress Party believed that we should have forces in Iraq. They don't advertise that much anymore. The Progress Party believes that we should halve our efforts in the UN, at a time when the rest of the world is calling for a stronger and more active UN. When all the world’s leaders talk about climate change, the Progress Party cast doubt on climate change. And when all the world's leaders demand more regulation of the market, Norway's largest party -- at least they're doing some recent measurements -- requires less regulation of the market and has even said that Bush is a socialist. If Bush is a socialist, then McCain is a communist. And I'm afraid not to think about what description you're going to give to Barack Obama. Because these are people who are going into too much more regulation of the market than what Bush has been into. While McCain wants more regulation of the market, the Progress Party in Norway will have more wind noise. While at this week's EU meeting Sarkozy calls for global governance with market forces, the Progress Party calls for more tax havens to be released. So, while Obama, Merkel, Gordon Brown -- whoever has to be mentioned -- everybody is calling for control of market forces and more action against climate change, the Progress Party in Norway goes out and says that this is hysteria, it's bluffmakers and similar formulations. The losers of such a policy are not a few stockbrokers. The losers of such a policy are most people. These are the places in our country and internationally that will get much bigger refugee flows if we don't deal with climate change. It is the many people in our country and internationally who will see more extreme weather, more race and sea level rise if we do not deal with climate change. The losers in this policy are the many people in Norway who will be unemployed if we do not manage to deal with this policy in Norway and internationally, and the many who will see interest increases and destruction of their personal economy, if we do not manage to deal with this in Norway and internationally. The losers, if we can't do anything about either climate change or financial crisis, are the world's absolute poorest, who will get the bill for everything. For Norway, in such an uncertain international time, it may be possible to make the opposite of what both US presidential candidates have in mind, namely more control of the market, the sharp opposite of what Britain, Germany, France and any other country I know does, is one of the biggest political experiments it is possible to embark on. The losers if Norway were to embark on such an experiment in some scenario with the Progress Party with influence on policy in Norway, are the most people, it is the many who have faith in the Norwegian model, Norwegian history. For the reason that Norway is doing better than many other countries, and that we are seen as the happiest country by almost all people around the globe, the combination of small differences, political governance, environmentally soundly anchored policies, a good relationship between trade union movement and employers is, in short, that we have taken political direction with market forces. As the Prime Minister said, the market is an excellent servant, but a deadly master.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2353	The minister reached to the great heights in the mention of the Progress Party, and it was a collusion, I must be allowed to say, of finance and climate and one with the other and claims in huts and weather. So when the Progress Party goes into the U.S. error regulation and criticises it, it becomes a defense for some kind of market fundamentalism. We've been together in Stortingen about the regulation of the financial market here. But what I wanted to challenge the Minister is the break in the WTO negotiations and the Government's wish in the throne to continue to maintain a strong import protection for domestic agricultural production, and now the need to provide the poor with a real anti-protectionist breakthrough, so that we can get ahead of world trade and things can move. Does the Minister not then agree that the important thing now is to put in place an agreement, lower the trade barriers and do something about the protectionism that Norway also stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2360	The government is a keen supporter of completing the WTO negotiations towards an agreement that can benefit the world's poor. But I wonder that the Progress Party calls it a conspiracy to give a true picture of their own policies. It's not the rest of us, it's the Progress Party that says there's uncertainty about climate change, while the rest of the world says that this is one of the biggest problems of our time, with which we have to do something. There is a situation in the United States today where two presidential candidates represent opposition candidates - McCain and Obama are both opposition candidates against the current policy in Washington, the one who has played down. There is no one in the United States of America of any importance, except for some small thoughts that the Progress Party clearly attaches itself to, which sees nothing at all other than that the Bush policy has failed both in terms of climate change and in terms of control of market forces. That's why both McCain and Obama are opposition candidates against Bush. The progress is in line with Bush.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2367	All politics are local, it's called, and my own party is a proud champion of the solution of matters. This means that I want to draw the attention of the Council of State to the current conflict between the municipality of Rendalen and the County of Hedmark, linked to the size of the Sølen area. The background to the protection process is, of course, the high quality of landscapes in the Silen massif and surrounding areas. I am convinced that it is possible to arrive at a reasonable size in the area of landscape protection, and that it is possible to extend today's nature reserve in Fuglia. It is north of today's nature reserve that the most important areas are likely to be located. There is also a process in progress in the two areas of voluntary protection that will almost triple the nature reserve. The question is therefore whether the State Council itself wants to commit itself to finding a reasonable size of the landscape protection area, so that another nature reserve is increased, to the delight of all the inhabitants of the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2376	Let me first mention the slightly polite point that this very concept of all politics is local, as it is just from American politics. It was Tip O’Neill who spent 29 years in the House of Representatives, who formulated it. That's right, and we're going to have respect for that. Is that what I've learned, is that all politics are equally local everywhere you are in the world. It is not that you are smaller or more local in Norway or elsewhere. However, I am unable to give an answer over the table directly to the question put here about the Sølen landscape protection area. I will promise to get into the matter properly. I have the general ambition that as far as possible we should find compromises that people can engage in and live with locally. Then I would like to come back in the form of letters or other form of information to the representative Gitmark about the further process of the Sølen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2383	I've been worried about who's going to take over the job of cracking the FrP code after Martin Kolberg when he ends. But now we've got the answer here today, because I understand that Solheim has done the same thing. I'm going to ask questions about one of the issues that Solheim is responsible for as the Council of State constitutionally, and that concerns the aid policy. As part of an impatient climate opposition in Stortinget, the Christian People's Party has taken part in a strong commitment to climate action, both internationally and from the Norwegian side. But we are very concerned that this effort should lead entirely to the escalation of the traditional fight against poverty in the form of education and health assistance not growing at all. Can the Council of State calm the Christian People's Party at that point? Can he assure that he is still fighting for a stepping up of the classic aid? And can he assure the Christian People's Party that he will continue to stand at international level against attempts to water down the concept of aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2394	Yes, absolutely. We shall be opposed to any form of dilution of the concept of aid, but there is no one at all - no vote in the international debate - who believes that helping poor countries to adapt to climate change is not aid or that preserving the rainforest is not aid. Keeping the rainforest is helping people who live in a forest, better economy, better education, better health and many other things, so that they can get there without mowing the forest. It can't be that if you help someone in a forest, it's fundamentally different than helping someone on a savannah or someone on a rice field. There is unison international agreement that adaptation to climate change and assistance are the same. Jeffrey Sachs, a significant aid guru, has said that adaptation to climate change and assistance is identical, because all of the measures we can think of to help countries adapt to climate change are, in fact, aid measures. So to the second question the representative asks, it's a well-known case that we already in New York announced a stepping up of aid for education. So it's not like we're going to cut into education or health. We don't cut a single crown to any of the world's poor to accommodate the very, very important growth in aid within the climate area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2406	More than ever, Norway is a small country in the world, as former Prime Minister Korvald said. More than ever, developments in the world are affecting developments in Norway. At the opening of the UN Main Assembly on 25 September this autumn, our Prime Minister stated the following on the international challenges: «I requested we face not only a food crisis, an energy crisis, a climate crisis, a trade talk crisis, but a larger, decision-making crisis. We have great institutional capacity. We're discussing, we're deliberating and we're studying. But we're too often unstable to decide. Often, those countries, who want the least, those countries decide the most." - Glittering, Prime Minister! The same thing: those who want the least must not be allowed to decide for all those who can and will more, either when it comes to required reforms and conversions here at home. Oil and gas prices are rising, production is falling, state and company are making a lot of money, but we are unmistakably a "mature" energy province. What we're going to live on tomorrow must be planned today. The findings we might be doing tomorrow are at best in production in 15 years. However, the EU has planned a completely different composition of its own energy consumption already in 2020. They will import less oil and gas. The same will apply to an increasing number of large, high-buyable markets. In Norway, we plan and invest enormously in the production of products markets systematically want independence from. This can only lead to one conclusion: we must transform into a broader, modern and sustainable industrial foundation and become less dependent on oil and gas production. The revenues from the production of non-renewable energy must finance the modernisation of existing and the development of new renewable energy production. We need to reduce our dependence on exports of crude oil and gas faster than customers change their consumption composition if we are to lead the fight for value chains in the 21st century industry. We can start with increased processing of special natural gas. Export dependence is reduced along with vulnerability to other energy sources. Norway is a large producer of pure force. Unfortunately, the trend in exports of unprocessed goods is increasing. The value chains in the Norwegian economy are generally lower, shorter and commodity-based. A government where those who want the least, don't get to decide the most, will radically change this. It will exploit Norway’s enormous potential for new generation of clean power to land and to water, and it will ensure that clean power leads to as many and as long sustainable value chains as possible in the country’s economy. For ten years it has been said that the oil was worth more on the stock exchange in New York than under the ground in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea. Today, writing at the base of 23 pst. of Norwegian GDP derived from oil and gas production, or select a quarter of the value added. Oil and gas account for about half of the country's exports. Well one third of the country's income comes from this sector. It's rare to talk about the enormous expenses the state and the community have because of the same thing. But these figures are taken as an illustration of the dimensions of our conversion needs. We're in a hurry to get started. In July this year, the Government's own Energy Council made a proposal to radically increase the production of renewable energy. In Stortinget we look forward to hearing how the Government will implement this. The environmental crisis causes many people to worry about what's happening to the globe. The financial crisis creates fear of your own work and income. We need to secure future and secure income and work by developing more clean energy and ensuring a large and clean industry. Those who can and will at least, must not decide the most. Together with a shift in renewable energy production in order to follow up the UN recommendations, we must also take our share of the responsibility for dampening the world's food crisis and ensuring enough food for everyone as quickly as possible. Over 900 million people are starving now - 900 million! This at a time when Norway imports cereals into humans and animal feed that never before - over 900000 tonnes or 3 million decars - and imports are increasing. Governments need to develop an action plan to improve food security, both through preparedness storage and increased national production based on our huge unused grass and grazing resources. The financial speech is the government's action programme for the coming year. Through that debate, we will also show how we will respond to the greatest international challenges in our political priorities. We're going to answer: what do we want with Norway? What do we want with Norway's efforts internationally? I have pointed out the main international challenges: more renewable energy and increased food security. Norway is the country of opportunity. The slogan of the centre batch is: growth is not to be consumed anymore, but to manage better. This slogan is now being exacerbated because it is a wise and decent attitude for countries and families. The current financial crisis represents a financial economy without a basis in the real economy, which therefore had to lead to collapse. We are facing a systemic crisis that must lead to a critical review of the framework and guidelines for financial institutions and their future roles. Through a sharp change of words, we can put the real economy in the center of this harvest. Thus, a positive outcome of this financial crisis can be found, in which long-term management of natural resources and associated jobs is stimulated rather than a galloping increase in private consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2449	Let me first remind the representative, Mr Lundtegen, that his campaign against the policy that should have led to increased imports of cereals should be directed to two Ministers of Agriculture from the Centre Party. The representative, Lundtigen, is the main ideologist of the Central Party. He has become known to many creative ideas, including: in the fight against the market and what the bad market will lead to. Without a market, all our small and small businesses will go doll. Lundtigen likes to think of himself as a spokesperson for Building Norway, where there are many small and small businesses that might now be going doll because of the turmoil we see in the economy. I would like to ask Lundtigen to make three points that he believes will be a good action plan to secure the small and medium-sized enterprises in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2456	The post that State Council Solheim made before me described in a very good way the relationship of the Center Party with the market. The centre party is for the market mechanism, seagoing. The market mechanism is a good servant, but a bad master. So we also want to correct the market forces, and we're standing up there, as part of the red-green government. What I was basing on was what the Prime Minister said in the UN General Assembly and what is discussed in the UN bodies, namely the food crisis, the climate crisis, the energy issue and the financial issue. I tried to establish that there are issues that Norway has the opportunity to influence, to a small extent. It's a responsibility we have, where those who are most impatient are going to go into it. As part of it, we have also been searing small businesses as an important under-forestry in order to achieve a sensible industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2463	What we shall live on tomorrow, we must decide today,' said the representative Lundtegen in his post. That's basically what I've been sitting all day waiting to hear from someone, without hearing anything but about all the misery around the market economy and what it's like in the United States. The center party is - or has at least been - a business party. There have been participants in a government that has increased taxes on business and for ordinary people throughout this period, under the cover of taxing the richer. Does the representative Lundtigen think that increased taxes on business will now be a good medicine when we go into the situation we have, with the financial crisis and with quite clearly a decline in growth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2470	It's true that the Center Party is a business party. We're quite confident about it, and we're happy every time people talk about a creation first and then have a benefit, which is a central slogan for the Workers' Party. What I tried to point out is that we are now facing the international challenges, we must make a strong change in energy production and in energy processing in Norway. I understood that the party Right can join such a change. What was the real issue was tax policy. For the Centre Party, taxes and charges are an instrument. It's just like growing a plant. One cultivates the sides of a plant that one wants more of, and dampens the sides of which one wants less of. The centre party and the government are on the faculty principle, claiming that a person has a number of incentive schemes in relation to business. In other respects, a person wants to dampen his behaviour in order to improve overall development. So we have a pragmatic view of taxes and charges adapted to the social development that we want to stimulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2479	The representative Lundtigen has just been characterized as an ideologist, and I think I'm quite happy to agree. In any case, Lundteggen comes at regular intervals with various media recordings that go across both the official policies of the Centre Party and the Government. Lundtigen's input into Norwegian policy means that the policy becomes more colorful. He's not afraid to swing the whip either. In today's Business Day, September 18th, Lundtigen was more or less in favour of dedicating his government: «The times have come for a significantly stronger political leadership and vision for the future. ‘... That's what Lundtägen said, according to the newspaper, and I can agree with that. This government has had its chance, but not used it. That's why it has to be shifted. We agree on that, too. The representative, Lundtigen, is one of the politicians who have been most critical of the government’s tax promise to keep the 2004 promise, and has repeatedly said that we need higher taxes. My question is: is it meiner Lundtigen that the increase in tax is the right medicine if the country is now entering a low economic recession with increased unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2495	Definitely no. The challenge now is to secure jobs and further develop new jobs. That's to secure a jealous relationship among people. Government revenues are not a problem. What has to be evolution is to get a soft landing on what we see now. It then requires that we correct the market, that we have an active state, that we at all follow up on the mixed economic tradition that the centre-lefts in Norway have stood as defenders of, and on which the left was once a member. We are therefore on a safe basis and want to pursue a pragmatic policy related to the reality of Norwegian employees and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2500	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2503	The turbulent situation in the world economy and the challenges it confronts us are being given little attention in the census. The Prime Minister had this theme more central in his speech today. But it was the problem description that dominated, not a concrete instruction on how the government will set up its policy to meet the challenges. Active and targeted policies are important to mitigate the negative impacts now on households and businesses. The State budget will be a test of whether the Government will pursue a policy adapted to the current crisis in the international financial markets. It is important to help keep interest rates as low as possible, and many have noticed that Norway has gone from below the average interest rate in Europe to above the European average level of today’s government. I don't think the climate challenges got the offensive approach in the throne speech that they should have had. It is correctly stated that Norway should be a driver for a more ambitious climate agreement in Copenhagen in 2009. But if we're to be able to do it in a credible way, we have to make credible efforts at home. That is not the case today. The climate agreement is a good starting point, but not sufficient. For example, when emissions are going down, it is pointless for the Government and the bulk of the population to allocate free allowances to the gas power plant at Kårstø. It is a scheme that needs to be phased out because it stimulates increased emissions, not reduced. It is also necessary to start preparing the management of CO2 at the Snow White plant, and I am calling for the Government's plan to follow up the SFT's request for the Government to engage in dialogue with the SFT. We are in the situation that while one is to have an international leadership role, emissions in Norway are rising while we have a goal of reducing them. I notice that the Government of the Throne places emphasis on measures against deforestation in tropical strata. It's an engagement left hand parts. I also notice that the Prime Minister's visit to Brazil recently with great enthusiasm announced Norwegian appropriations for rainforest betting, and he called it his biggest project. It is positive that the Government has given this tool to the Government, for the rainforest bet was not mentioned in one word in the Government's climate report. It was on demand from the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right that this bet and the amount in the climate announcement came into place. I believe the main reason why the climate communication was so tame and had to be dramatically improved during the treatment in Stortinget was internal disagreement in the Government. The government's least common multiple in climate policy is simply not good enough. Now we see that disagreement also hampers other important environmental areas. For three years we have been waiting for the follow-up on the setting of the bio-diversity law. We need a law fast. It shall contribute to the cessation of the eradication of species and the destruction of natural habitats. It's not a law of protection, it's a conservation law. We know the policy enough to establish that the centre party is the brake block on this issue. They simply do not want offensive law. There is reason to expect Prime Minister Stoltenberg to take responsibility for leadership and give us the law we need, and put nature ahead of special interests. This law, which is not mentioned in one word in the throne, where things are listed as a mass to come to the Storting, is simply the main nature conservation issue of the session. I expect the Government to present an offensive bill to the Stortinget. It's one year until we're going to have elections again, and it's obvious that a majority in Norway wants a government change. What was going to be a new course, and what was going to be a majority government that used the majority to strengthen policy and reach bold goals, has been marked by disunity and repeated breaking of promises. The left wants to contribute to a change of government, so that we can get a bourgeois government. We have made it clear that we cannot reign with the Progress Party until that is the political distance between the Left and the Advance Party too much. We assume that the party believes what they say about aid, asylum policy, the environment, economic policy, rural policy and agriculture, and it simply cannot be combined with the Left. So we need a government shift, a bourgeois government with a good, heavy starting point in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2528	Left's leader, Lars Sponheim, criticized in his speech earlier today in the throne debate the government for not protecting the most vulnerable areas for fish outside the Lofoten and the West. Several times in the past, we have also received strong criticism from the former government partner of the Left Right, by energy policy spokesman Ivar Kristiansen, on the contrary, not to have started petroleum activity in the Lofoten and the West. What a party thinks when they sit far from the government offices is really quite uninteresting. But what's interesting is to know what you mean when you have the power to implement your policy. Here we have experience with, among other things: the batch left, which in the opposition was previously opposed to the expansion of the Snow White field and the gas power plant at Melkøya, but which in the government of Bondevik was in favour of the expansion. I wonder whether the Left can guarantee that, in any government cooperation with the Right in the future, they will ensure that the areas of the Lofoten and the West Pole become petroleum-free, if the Left is in power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2536	The left is strongly concerned that petroleum-free areas outside the Lofoten and the Western Seabed are becoming. And we've said we can't participate in a government that opens up such activity. I wish the Workers' Party had been as clear. It is that when we ruled with the Right, these areas were not opened to oil activity, even though the parties had different positions. And the protection effort made during Bondevik II, I'm proud of that. The protected area in Norway was extended by 50 pst. 50 new watercourses were protected. So we were able to achieve a more offensive protection policy with the Right than today's government does. It's embarrassing that after three years we're still waiting for the draft bio-diversity law, which is a tool that we need, in a situation where developments are going in the opposite direction to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that one has undertaken to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2545	I want to follow up on where the previous speakers were, because it is a little about realising themselves in the political debate, also in relation to the thoughts and ideas that you have about who will come after 2009. That today's government is going to go away, a lot of people agree -- probably also into the red-green parts. However, when the Left says that the only ultimatum you have is that there should not be oil activities outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, and one knows that the Right, together with the Progress Party in the Northern Region Management Plan, proposed that one should carry out such activities outside that area, it shows that the one ultimatum that the Left has does not agree with the Right Party. And then the question is, does the representative Kvassheim count that the Left, with its great weight, is actually going to convince the Right that their policy is wrong? Or: Should not the Left regard SV as its only possible government partner, with such an ultimatum?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2554	What we signal with our clear position on the Lofoten and the Vesterål is that this is a very important matter. And when I'm optimistic about our attitude being able to achieve, it's because we've experienced a marked change of mood in the last year. While there was an atmosphere that went in the direction of opening up to such activity, the majority now does not want it. I think that will have an impact on the views of the parties, and we see several parties that are now taking a clear no-position. I think what has happened in the case of accidents related to Statfjord and other areas shows that the oil companies' slippery safety that they were able to deal with the challenges they have in these areas was not much worth. We see repeated examples of what's not going to happen. With that curtain, I'm optimistic that we're going to have a new expansion period without oil activity in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2561	Biological diversity, species diversity, is important. The view of the left is that the State cannot protect enough to ensure it. And it also follows that you have less respect for the local opinion and the local tradition of land management. The central part of Trillemarka, for example, showed where one stood when it applied to red-listed species. One takes this dry seriously. The left is very concerned about presenting Norway as a natural landscape, not a cultural landscape. My question is related to renewable energy. Renewable energy, bioenergy, requires that we harvest from nature, requires that we chop and timber, to say it is practical. This will cause us to get less wild and run in this country, i.e. less land with it, and correspondingly less land for the species that live on it. Is the left to increase the production of bioenergy, despite the decline in the wild?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2568	The answer to the question is yes. Increased bioenergy production is an important part of the commitment to renewable energy production on a larger scale than the Government has shown its willingness to do so far. And this industry is now asking for a completely different policy from that provided by the Government. That's a lot of goals. But the tools to achieve the goals you've set yourself in this area are missing the industry, and they're missing the Left. In the case of Trillemarka, which was mentioned here in particular, the Left wanted, in connection with the treatment in Stortinget, to settle for the protection decisions that had been taken and to compensate local municipalities, in accordance with local expectations. Unfortunately, it was not adopted, and it was due to, among other things. that the centre party was actively not involved in obtaining a majority for what was the local expectation of settlement in the case of Trillemarka.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2575	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2578	Moelven Industrier cancels 200 people, and the Hydro Raufoss Automotive licenses. These are just two examples of how the internationalisation of trade and the economy causes the original US financial crisis to be disrupted also in Norway, in this case in Inland Norway. The more important it is that we have had and have good financial management, regulation of the financial market and instruments that dampen the impact. We have had and have a very good economy in the country, a good tax intake and a return of the Pension Fund that gives us room for action - a return we have not fully benefited in recent years, as the challenge has been the lack of labour and the hot economy. An alternative in which the government would have spent more money and more activity would have provided a much higher cost increase, higher interest rates and crown rates, which would have aggravated the competition situation for Norwegian business. This would have been the result if the Storting had joined the Numerous proposals of the Progress Party on State billions for a number of purposes. The government reversed the Bondevik government's tax cuts and uses the money to strengthen the community, health and care services for all, better education and education, and a historical commitment to kindergarten development. The government will also continue to work for an increasingly better welfare society that offers all the same opportunities. This is the red-green line that we know that a large number of my people is a right course. The transport sector has been strengthened by several billions in line with the national transport plan framework. We must not forget that the Bondevik government came to Stortinget with a proposal for a transport plan that was much less ambitious. Now much more is allowed than what the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposed. Nevertheless, these parties are eager enough to criticise that it is not done enough. These parties might also agree that it was good that their submissions were rejected. What we all have to accept and take responsibility for is a far too poor maintenance of infrastructure over many years, which means that we have to give this far more priority than the transport plan set out. As the expansion project has become much more expensive, this suggests that we are in some way in arrears with the implementation of many extensions. We have developed a wealth society and a business that leads to increased mobility. Traffic is increasing much more than foreseen in the transport plan, with particular reference to freight transport. The transport sector has been lagging behind in this development. As a result, the capacity is detonated, so the train is too often, so the pollution is large, and therefore we have had a tragic development of traffic accidents. Therefore, the Labour Party and the Government will have a journey promise. In this case, increased road safety must be one of the main targets. It's a good social economy, and it's a good health policy. The working party will work towards an environmentally friendly, safe, accessible and efficient transport system that hangs together. We must exploit the advantages of individual transport sectors with increased collective effort in and around cities, but also good rail supplies for goods and people on routes between regions. The rule determines the possibilities for high-speed trains in Norway. No matter what the conclusion is, I think the first step is to build the sections that we're planning to build, with a standard that allows the train to run fast, that is. 250 km an hour. Then we take the height of a future high-speed wager. Then we must not forget that our roads are and will be the most important transport years in much of the country. We need to improve ports and fairways and improve ferry services along our long-distance coast. It is right to give priority to transport in the future now, mainly because the country needs it. It will make society and business more efficient. The return on the Pension Fund gives us room for action to do so without breaking the rule of action if we choose to prioritize this sector. We see that the conjunctuation is over. There will be more capacity in the civil engineering sector, and in a decade's time, the large pension costs will be fully recovered, while at the same time we see the contours of reduced oil revenues. This initiative will also be entirely in line with the intention behind the rule of action, which is to use the return of the Pension Fund to make mainland Norway robust and business competitive, given a time when we cannot make ourselves rich in oil revenues. Much better communication and infrastructure will be crucial. We do not know how serious and long-standing the recession we are facing, but I note that many people already have an active counter-cyclical policy in place. If one has to resort to it, at least the development of transport and communication is a good tool in a double sense. It gives employment, and it makes business more efficient. We also see that both LO and NHO are now very active in getting better transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2595	The languages of the throne were bare for thoughts and visions about the university and higher education sectors. Research was exclusively mentioned in relation to climate research. This is well the government's Achilles heel--a government that is likely to go over in history as a promise-breaker. The total lack of understanding, willingness and ability to invest in higher education and research at all levels has marked this government from day one. In party speeches, it is often said that we should live on knowledge as the oil ends, but the will to make words of action has not been present with the majority. The government's famous rest cuts have led to a serious blow to the university and higher education sector. Although we expect the rest of the money from the rest cut to be returned to the state budget of the year, there is no doubt that what was seized by the government has hampered the sector. We need a thorough debate on where we want higher education. Today we see that a number of colleges have started a process of becoming a university. There are offers all over the place that hardly have students. We're about to have a suboptimisation and, in many cases, a quality reduction. Is that a desirable development? Will small Norway have enough professionals to build good educational and research environments that can be viable over time and not least be attractive from an international perspective? The research community refers to the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration which says that it should be invested in research, but they are met by a lack of funding and a government that cast doubt on whether it is desirable to embark on the 3 p.m. objective of GDP on which there has been cross-political agreement. A sector that is on the blush of savings does not provide much optimism and ground for excellent and ground-breaking research. In addition, we have the recruitment message that did not arrive. In eight years almost 40 pst. of the employees retire on retirement. Obviously, the government does not take this situation seriously. We have an annual deficit of about 600 fellows, and the costs of institutions by having fellows significantly exceed what they receive in grants. The government has not been willing to outline a possible career plan for the scholarship holders. When we see that those who are employed today are on average 43 years old, and we know that many of them are already arguing at the age of 34, that means that they have been in temporary jobs for eight to ten years. Is there really something this government can be aware of, those who claim to be the best ally of the employees? This temporaryity leads to the disappearance of many of the best minds due to bad conditions. We see that 33 pst. by post doc. students have left the sector. Some of them we find again as train drivers on the T-Bahn. It should be obvious that they don't get much use for their doctorate there. This is simply a bad social economy and a little forward-looking. It is important that the public debate on research is upgraded, especially now at the time of the generation change. Where do we stand both nationally and internationally, and -- not least -- where do we want to go? If we are to create a higher quality education sector that attracts both students and teachers from national and international environments, we need to look at the overall framework conditions, such as construction, equipment, wages, employment, temporaryity and international exchange. We must ensure that we have a sector that can expand and that has predictable framework conditions. Research is, in particular, an area that needs long-term attention. The Progress Party has several times proposed changes to have budgets with a longer-term horizon, but we have been voted down. That debate must all be willing to resume. We have a building mass in the public sector that is falling due at an ever-increasing pace. The maintenance run is enormous. I therefore hope that the Stortinget can join today in the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted to get a comprehensive overview of the maintenance kit run and a strategy to take it back. After all, we have overall responsibility for the useful working environment of employees, students and students in the education sector, and we have a socio-economic responsibility for managing the basic investments made with taxpayers' money in a sound manner and not in confusion. We also have a significant lag on the equipment side of our universities and colleges, and there should be a cross-thinking for everyone in this room when Norway, as one of the world's richest and best countries, is excluded from international research projects because we have too poor equipment. It's embarrassing. Good teachers are a prerequisite for creating a better school, that's something that everyone agrees on. It takes time to train new teachers and recreate the teacher's role as a good and professionally safe adult who has authority. That means it's urgent to get started. The opposition, through various proposals, has outlined measures to improve teacher training and enhance skills, but we have not been given the majority with us. The only thing we get is a new non-committal paper. We have a majority government that has the power to initiate action at a fast pace, but what we see is refusal and little progress. I hope that both the two ministers of the Ministry of Knowledge through the State budget will show that Norway is going to invest in knowledge. But I don't think so until I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2614	This year's census was not exactly dominated by new grips or new initiatives. The speech was a list of matters that have been largely notified in advance and known to most people. I noticed, however, that the speech started with a wish for a new course for Norway. Here's the government in on a wise track. I quite agreed with that. A new course is a good idea after three lost years in many fields. If we interpret the wish in the opposite way, that there was a new course in relation to the Bondevik II government that was the goal, then what is the problem with this government? So even after three years of economic drag, the government criticises its predecessors, as if the government parties were still in opposition. So even though the government came to the table with a fantastic economic downwind and after every 160 billion more in the budgets every year, the government breaks a lot of election vows. Research policy has taken the longest cutting edge of ice skating history. In economic policy, we are back at a strangely high level of interest rates. We are well aware of this from the Stoltenberg I era. Poverty is still there, health cows are increasing, and the government is building fewer kilometres of road, despite unique economic opportunities. After the 2005 shift, there were not many weeks before red-green politicians filled up the papers with clichés that Norwegian business was going down, and never before have more people been in work. The reproach of the good economics has been on the border of the pathetic for a long time. Value creation policy is not about observing that the economic cycle is good or bad. The policy lies in what is actually being done to ensure that value creation is as high as possible, so that people have safe jobs, that businesses invest, and that well-being is best served in a long-term perspective. The Prime Minister said earlier today that Norway is well equipped to cope with the financial turmoil. Enough of a passive observation! The question is what the government itself has actually contributed to make the good times, the fat years, last longer. The Trontals had no new thoughts about ensuring that business is going well in the future as well, or that the Norwegian economy will become more robust against cyclical changes. On the contrary, the Stoltenberg II government has given a short-term priority to expenditure on public budgets rather than investment in the future. This may be necessary to meet the pile of election vows, making this government a liftbreaker government. However, short-termity at the top of a high economic cycle is nevertheless wrong if the objective is to increase well-being in the long term. The right, therefore, wants a new course in industrial policy and a better framework for business, an even more responsible economic policy, not to give gas downhill, as this government does. Here is the Right Crystal clear and not to misunderstand, which I see gradually beginning to say even at the Advance Party. This is definitely not the time for economic experiments. On the right, priority will be given to infrastructure construction, research, knowledge and growth-promoting tax incentives. And the Right will have an industrial policy that does not mean weakening industries that are claimed to be key industries. It was quite amazing to see the fishing industry get a NOx tax, to see the maritime cluster get 14 billion kroner in tax shocks and to see the powerful industry get nationalized power instead of new industrial power contracts, as they had been promised. The modernisation of the public sector needs to be resumed. We need more competition and alternative solutions where the Government is today stuck in outdated ideology. Stoltenberg tries to make financial market regulation a social democratic heritage. This is a big brawl. There is no social democratic invention that the market is best suited under good regulatory frameworks. This has been the Right Line for all years - more market combined with good regulation and good oversight arrangements. The government has not taken a great deal of action with financial market regulation during this period, perhaps in addition to allowing hedge funds. It is paradoxical that the 2001 action rule’s assumptions regarding the use of oil revenues for growth promotion measures have not been followed up. According to the Society's Main Organisation, the Bondevik II government has used 90 pst. of the space for action for growth-promoting policies. Under Stoltenberg II, according to the NHO, only 10 pst has been used. of the same space of action for growth promotion purposes. The consequence is that Norway is lagging behind in terms of competitiveness. To this important question, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said earlier today that Norwegian business is doing well. We are still at the cliché and observation level of industrial policy, and that on a day when the value of Norwegian listed companies has fallen by unimaginable 10 pst. Workers and enterprises need better answers in business policy than this. Now companies notice weaker demand, now it becomes more difficult to obtain credit, now the uncertainty is affecting investment and employment policy, and now we are at risk of uncertainty about existing jobs. The answer might be, as the government itself wrote in the throne, that it's time for a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2647	My mother was a wise lady. As a 70 - year - old and grandmother, she engaged in peacekeeping and the fight against nuclear weapons. She wasn't alone. In the '80s we were many who went on trains and mobilized against nuclear disarmament. And it actually led to important disarmament agreements, like the INF agreement, that have contributed to the removal of 80 pst. the mid-range missiles of the United States and Russia. We have to admit that we thought the nuclear disarmament went its way, and we let in the years. But the ‘mothers in Stortingspladsen’, together with the ‘No to Atomic Arms and the Peace Movement’, continued their work. Great praise to them! Because now it turns out that the 1990s was the decade when world leaders did not use the opportunities to secure peace and further disarmament. Kofi Annan says that the world went to sleep into a new upliftment. Yesterday's Newspaper warned Madeleine Albright against nuclear disarmament. Under George W. Bush's leadership, the U.S. has terminated the ABM agreement and headed for a crazy upgrade. The United States has doubled its defence budget since 2001 and now stands for incredible 48 pst. of the world's total military expenditure, financed by borrowed funds. The military economy is an important part of the US financial problem. A new arms race driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism should be won with military power rather than diplomacy and multilateral work is one of our greatest challenges and stands in the way of solving poverty problems, food crises and climate issues. If there's something world doesn't need today, there's a new nuclear and conventional upgrade. That is why it is so important to prevent the Europe-based part of the U.S. missile shield while at the same time supporting under the US and European forces for otherwise opposing the entire missile defence. The deployment of the US rocket system on Russia's doorstep will provoke, giving the Russian hawks greater leeway at home. With regard to the level of conflict between the United States and NATO on the one hand and Russia on the other, the further development of the U.S. missile shield plays a geopolitical role. But most importantly, we're in danger of the disarmament work stopping, and we're getting a new upgrade. The use of nuclear weapons can never be legitimized. The work on the ban on nuclear weapons must be intensified. We can learn from the work of banning class weapons and land mines. Nuclear weapons must be abolished, also because irreversible damage to the environment occurs in the development, testing, use and destruction of nuclear weapons. It is at all important to look at militarization from a climate, environmental and development perspective, firstly because the world's military consumption is $1,300 billion per. year - a crazy waste and abuse of opportunities and one of the most serious obstacles to achieving sustainable development. In fact, the West spends 85 times more on military research and development than on research and development of renewable energy. It means fewer wise heads to solve the big challenges. Secondly, the CO2 and methane emissions from the military sector are gigantic. The military sector accounts for two thirds of the world's emissions of CFC gases. The Development Committee has highlighted the link between poverty and war and conflict. War and armed conflict are one of the main causes of poverty. Armed conflict leads to great economic degradation for people and countries affected. We see it in Afghanistan, and we see it in Africa. The weapons industry is the winner. Militaryisation, war and conflict steal the resources from the major challenges - climate, food crisis and poverty reduction. There is now a need for some courageous countries to go ahead. Norway did so by starting work on banning class weapons, Norway has done so by confronting the resistance to the rocket shield. SV believes that an even greater effort must now be made to change NATO's nuclear strategy and to abolish nuclear weapons. We simply cannot afford a new bourgeois Norwegian government that will not take this work seriously, it shows the position in the rocket shield case. Therefore SV will work hard for a new red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2665	In the Common Era, it is clear that combating poverty is an important task for the Government. The fight against poverty must be fought every day. It's about attacking the causes of poverty. It's about relieving the consequences of poverty. It is about access to the most basic: work, housing, opportunities for participation. It's about counteracting kids inheriting parents' poverty. It is about seeing the coherence of instruments in the responsibilities of several departments. The entire policy implemented by the Government helps to reduce differences in both the short and long term: kindergarten for all, development of full-time schooling, low unemployment, human criminal care, better care and health care, and a record social security settlement with a strong so-called low pay profile. The opposition has said a lot here today that the government has had an economic downwind in its back. Yes, and it has been used by the Government. In time, it is important to use the chance to help those with the most difficulty. Therefore, the volume of labour market measures has been maintained, as opposed to past practices, where measures have been cut when unemployment decreases. For example, the right-hand side proposed: such cuts in the budget for this year. In the wake of the economic collapse in the United States, maintaining the good results may be a major challenge. Until now, the demand for labour has been high in all countries. Work, as we know, is the best way out of poverty. 200,000 more people have come to work so far during this period of government. By the end of September, there were 42 000 total unemployed persons registered at NAV, a decrease of 3 pst. compared to last year's September, corresponding to 1,7 pst. by the labour force. The level of ordinary labour market measures is 18 pst. higher than at the same time last year. We are now simplifying and improving labour market measures. The changes we propose will give the individual user a more tailored offer. In particular, we strengthen the offer to those who have been out of work for a long time. There is also reason to recall that there may be some contradictions of interest between public objectives and individual enterprises in terms of the working line. Something is about discriminatory attitudes, for example: to disabled persons. Something is about people who need flexibility in their everyday lives, besides those who can expect individual employers to make arrangements on their own. An employer will always ask for efficiency. Social interests and the individual's joy in being useful in a good working environment are not recorded in the company accounts. For society, however, there are great advantages in making use of their working capacity to the best of their ability. Then the social shock gets bigger. We save social expenditure and get higher tax revenues, although sick leave on the other hand may increase somewhat. We have tried to motivate employers to add workers to the outer edge of our working life with wage subsidies and better opportunities to combine work and social security. This should be a win-win situation for both parties, but the response has so far been too small, unfortunately. Young people with disabilities are happy with the new Discrimination and Availability Act but state that they do not reach the candidate bases. The law therefore provides for positive special treatment in order to promote equality for people with disabilities. If project funding and wage subsidies do not help, we need to consider several instruments. This does not apply only to the private sector. The plan of measures to recruit at least 5 pst. disabled persons of the State have not been reached. By the end of 2007, only 325 had received a job. Recruitment to the trainee programme in the state promises well, but also there to date too few managers and other employees have gained the positive experience of having a colleague with disabilities. Experience from this should therefore provide us with insights into new measures to achieve our objectives. And then I come to the qualification program that works. Funds have already been allocated to 5,400 participants. So far, 1841 participants have been registered. Good offers and a better economy provide good motivation to address your own challenges. The proposal for the use of coercion by the Right-wing Party and the Progressive Party would be counterproductive. The precursor of the qualification program, TIO, is evaluated by Rambøll Management. Their report just shows that the success recipe is close individual follow-up of long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. More than half of those taking part in such premises -- motivation, not coercion -- get a job or start education. So finally, the evening post reported on October 2nd this year that more social welfare recipients in Oslo were jumping off the social assistance program because they got so close that it was not possible to work black next door. Let it not be essentially, but see that the fight against black work and social dumping in this way also forms part of a comprehensive policy to combat poverty. Everyone knows that those who work black don't get pension benefits, they only have social assistance whose sickness and unemployment are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2686	It was very interesting to hear State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen today ramming up all the issues relating to our welfare systems. He clearly pointed out a number of problems, that people stay in hospitals for a long time after they have been treated because there is not enough care, hospitalization or anything else in the municipality. It's $800 million. kr a year, said Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. He was talking about a drug addict who may have been in rehabilitation for a year or two. Because there is subsequently a lack of reception capacity and follow-up in the municipality, he goes back to using drugs, and the effort with rehabilitation has been lost. We know that for many municipalities that have people who go on social welfare, the solution will often be that they get dissatisfied. Then the bill goes from the municipality to the state. The municipality has saved its money. That is why Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is talking about an interaction reform. I would rather be actively testing and planning the implementation of the welfare options of the Progress Party, or whatever we call the welfare reform, which we know will solve all the problems that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is now going to solve once again. It's a little strange, but today I have to say that I actually shared almost all of the views of Inge Wage. It's not always like that. As he said today, the Wisloff Committee gave the setting many years ago, and the heir to the Government when it joined. They could follow it up, but it was put in a drawer, and now they're going to start investigating again. What is needed is a comprehensive welfare reform that brings together all welfare services in one state body, an extension of NAV to also take part in the responsibility for other welfare tasks and, of course, also those who are patients at hospitals, in rehabilitation and in the care of the elderly. Let it be the same office that gets paid in the same budget, whether a patient or user is in hospitals, hospitals or in home-based services. It is the same office that pays for disability and other rehabilitation for drug abuse. Then, of course, an office with many sensible people would ensure that hundreds of thousands of dollars and perhaps millions of dollars were not wasted on rehabilitation from drug abuse, so that they would save 10 000-20 000 kroner, which would make them return to their care. Then you'll see to it that you help him to a normal life, a normal job, so that you really get to move a person from disability, maybe 30 years of disability, to a job, a normal family. It will in the long term - in a 30-40 year perspective - be a huge economic gain for society, not to mention how nice it will be for the person who is then saved. Today, things are not seen in context because there are different boxes that pay the expenses. It's at the moment it's the same official in the welfare office who follows up the same people, wherever they are in the auxiliaries, and it's the same official who has to find the budget coverage for it, that you'll be able to see everything in context. Then you get rid of all the different floors. Of course, among the floors that have to be included in this is child protection. Families in which there is drug abuse often also get away with child protection, and they get away with crime. There are people that socially fall outside. It's being followed. They do not have a uniform meeting day because this applies to different establishments. If all the agencies were grouped in one welfare office, the same people in public could take responsibility for one family, regardless of who in the family it was. Then you'd see everything in context. When this welfare office was informed that a person who has been in prison for two years is going back, it would be obvious that he had organized an apartment and a job before he came back, because it is this welfare office that would get the bill if he came back and became a social client, or he started running again, or he was dissatisfied. Then you would see the money in the disability insurance system and the Aetat system together with the other expenses, and you would get the interaction that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen demands. You get interaction if there's one unit. If there are several different units and different budgets, it is not very good. One more thing: I hope the Storting remembers that proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party is identical to a unanimous decision in the Great Britain's throne debate in the autumn of 1996, which opened up to the health care coverage which became much better. We need a new decision and to implement a new elderly care plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2699	We live in a world that faces enormous challenges. The world, as a whole, has gone from a situation of enough food that is unfairly distributed to an even more serious situation: there is no longer enough food to distribute. At the same time, we are facing dramatic climate change. Food security and climate change are interrelated and problems are mutually reinforcing. Common to both challenges is the urgent need to act, and the fact that we're gathered here today has a great responsibility to find the right solutions. Food safety is the starting point for all development - without food, no development. Undernourished and hungry people have other and more urgent tasks than thinking about value creation, education and environmental protection. At the same time, we know that it is just long-term, sustainable value creation, education for more and a strong commitment to environmental protection in all parts of society that are essential for the world to evolve for the better. The struggle for food creates conflict. Nobel Prize winner Norman Borlaug has said: «If you want peace, cultivate justice, but at the same time cultivate the earth to make more bread. If not, there will be no peace." The world is facing tough challenges, and we also have a responsibility. Agriculture is part of the solution, not part of the problem. Fortunately, there are tools in the fight for international food security. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, is the main venue for joint solutions. As stated in the independent evaluation report on FAO: ‘If the FAO did not exist, we had to find it out.’ We need a global food security organization. We need to take seriously the crucial role of agriculture in developing countries in our aid policy. In the FAO Summit in Rome this summer, emphasis was placed on developing agriculture in developing countries so that they can feed themselves. Norway has the possibility to export knowledge on, inter alia: agricultural development and climate adaptation. We're already in place in some projects, and we should go into more. This is a line that I want to follow up. As mentioned in the census, the Government is working for an agreement in the World Trade Organisation that takes care of both the interests of Norway and developing countries. Neither Norway nor developing countries have an interest in the strong doing what they can, and the weak suffer where they need to. That is why we need a WTO with predictable and transparent rules that apply to everyone. At the same time, we should be clear that the result of an agreement can be measured not only in crowns and ears, but also in how it affects human capital and issues of distribution. Kamal Nath, Indian Trade Minister, said in advance of the WTO meeting this summer: «When I negotiate, I am willing to talk about trade. I'm not willing to negotiate with my people's living conditions; I'm not willing to negotiate self-storage; I'm not willing to negotiate poverty." No one can demand that anyone negotiate their own food security. We also have a responsibility for not happening, nationally or internationally. One of the most important principles laid down in the UN Food Organisation is that all countries have the right and the duty to ensure that the inhabitants can feed themselves. This principle must govern the choices we make. We all have a moral duty to care for Norwegian agricultural production. Expected population growth and wealth development in the world mean that we need to double the world's food production by 2050. In the foreseeable future, it will still be so in a thoughtful auction about the world's scarce food resources that we Nordics will be able to city the highest. But it would simply be immoral to reduce our own food production and even more based on imports in a situation where the world else is screaming for food. Norway is currently importing 50 pst. of the food we eat. It is a goal that we should continue to strengthen our national food production. We must take our share of responsibility at home and also out to meet the challenges posed by a changing climate. As the Prime Minister also said in the United Nations last week, we have a moral responsibility, precisely because we are a rich and well-developed country. We are going to present a big message on agriculture and climate because we are taking this issue seriously. Climate policy must become part of agricultural policy, as agricultural policy must be part of climate policy. We must take care of the resources of production domestically, for our own and for future generations. The uncertainty that confronts us in terms of climate change and food crises should not be answered with the abandonment of agricultural land and the weathering of the knowledge of how we grow the soil. Soil protection is central to the sustainability dimension and therefore to agricultural policy. Norway only has about 3 pst. arable land. This must be safeguarded and kept in claim so that we can operate agriculture now and in the future. The pressure on cultivated land is great in many parts of the country, and it is important for me to stress that soil protection is actually about food security for us and our descendants. If we don't think about our descendants, they'll never forget us or forgive us. It is in the light of these challenges that I, with a high head, defend the government's policy of maintaining agriculture throughout the country. A good income development for the economic operators in agriculture is the cornerstone of our policy. This government's policy has made a significant difference in three years, but there is still much to be done. Internationally, we will continue to fight to ensure that food security is not pushed down on the agenda. Nationally, the fight against food security in rural and agricultural areas is under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2743	The Government has one of the more challenging posts in the Government, especially when the Government itself has its own targets for the Council of State sector, which I think most know is impossible to implement within the framework set up by the Government itself. The outlook in agriculture is gloomy. There's a lot of depopulation, and there's a lot of empty farming, growing average age and fewer young people saying they want to bet on the profession. The party of progress has pointed out the weaknesses with a rigid agricultural legislation for a number of years, but has until recently spoken for deaf ears. Now the head of the Food Committee of the Stortinge and member of the Center Party, the representative Borten Moe, have seen the progress of the party, according to a survey in the Nation on 12 June. He calls for ‘free pricing of agricultural properties’ and intends to ‘remove the ban on sharing in the law’, as the Progress Party has been leading the way for all years. Does the Council share the new and modern views of its party colleague on agricultural policy? Or is the representative Borten Moe in favor of the Government and the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2754	I see representative Ola Borten Moe's posts in the Nations newspaper as a contribution that goes into the programming process of the Center Party. We take that seriously. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that, around the turn of the year, we are going to bring a case to Stortinget where we are going to go into the concession law, the law of the land and the law of the land. We will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss this matter. My starting point is that we need to pursue a sound price regulation policy. We will continue to focus on a price policy that contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy, including: we shall ensure the recruitment of active professionals to the industry and facilitate ownership of agricultural property that provides a basis for good and long-term resource management. Not least, it is important for us to ensure that we have actors living on the uses throughout the country, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2763	It surprises me that the Minister of Agriculture has not noticed the development that agriculture has been through since the days of the war. The fight against very strong forces in relocating is only defensive. As we have seen, the crisis awareness in the government has come a long way, but I am afraid that the Minister of Agriculture in particular is using the concept of food crisis and such things not to focus offensively. This should, of course, give great opportunities for agriculture - instead, we have the situation that the previous representative had in mind: closures, relocations and evaporation. And it's going to be met with the same kind of instruments that haven't worked in the last 40 years. When is the Minister of Agriculture going to deal with things and start to bet on offensive instruments and offensive forces to get the optimism back to agriculture again?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2770	It seems to have passed the representative of Gundersen that there has been a formidable increase in income in agriculture after the red-green government took over. On average, agricultural incomes have increased by NOK 60000 per year over three years. Annual work, and if we look at some of the most vulnerable groups, for example. those holding sheep have increased income by DKK 85 000 on average. It is a work we want to continue, and I would like to stress that what will be essential to ensure a viable agriculture throughout the country in the future, among other things. is that we are able to ensure the development of income. With regard to the issues of price control, housing etc., we will discuss it later this autumn, and I will return to that matter in Stortinget at the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2777	The Stortingsretten Lars Peder Breck profiled himself as a politician with great commitment to the small businesses. Even during this great period, he expressed himself very critical of the government's own policy, especially in relation to family-run businesses. It says respect. In this way, it is also hoped that the new Minister of Agriculture will shake off an old-fashioned way of thinking that has shaped the government so far, rather than turning agricultural policy towards a more forward-looking path in which the entrepreneurial spirit will be rewarded. But back to small businesses: in the evening post last Friday we could read that small businesses are the ones who will first notice the financial crisis on the body here at home. A number of tax-enhancing measures adopted by the current government for small enterprises may prove to be particularly poorly adapted to the situation of many small enterprises. Do the Council of State agree that targeted measures are important for the smallest enterprises, so that they can meet the future in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2786	I support the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug in the ambitions of small and medium-sized enterprises, as I have also said from this pulpit in the past. I am very concerned that one in agriculture too should continue to invest in complementary industries and make use of all the skills and physical resources available on the farm. Gradually, I will present plans for a change of pace in the investment in new industries, including: in the case of agricultural land resources, agricultural energy resources, etc. It is important for me to also work in that area, as well as ensuring primary production that has its basis in increased incomes, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2793	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2797	The debate here in Stortinget today has, of course, been largely about the ongoing financial crisis. That might not be so strange, because while we've been debating here, Oslo Børs has crashed almost 10 pst. Now I'm not so very concerned about those who have a lot of money on the stock exchange, but I'm worried about what might eventually turn into the Norwegian economy, and therefore it's good that this becomes a topic. It's very clear that things change quickly in an open, modern economy that we have in Norway. It has not been long since the media image was largely characterised by low unemployment, labour shortages and a historic uprising in the Norwegian economy. And in those times, I think it's easy for the political differences to be obscured. The conversation in public space has largely been about who can offer the most, overcoming each other, and who has the most money for the different purposes. It's only when the storm sets in, that the backbone of the different political solutions is really being tested. In our country, over the decades that we have behind us, we have built a political model, a social model, which we call the Norwegian model, a model based on an open, modern blending economy, where the market does a large part of the job, and where we are trying to ease the greatest social impacts of just the market's meringies. We also have a large element of regulation, especially in the financial sector. I can mention someone: we have independent supervision. They also have that in the United States, but they have a lot of fragmented supervision, and they don't fully understand each other. We have strong investor protection. We have a depositor's responsibility for those who have money in the bank, and not least we have a clear management of how much money and to what kind of interest the Norwegian Bank lends to Norwegian banks. And perhaps the most important thing: yes, we have a comprehensive and uniform control system and legislation against all the agencies operating in the banking sector in Norway. On the other side of the Norwegian model, we have a party that wants to appear as a liberalist here in Norway. The debate today has shown to the full that the Progress Party feels it is unpleasant to be reminded of its own policy in the face of the real world. The Vice President of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, appeared earlier today as - we could say - deeply wronged, and asked us to go to the sources when we said that there are similarities between the policies of the Progress Party and some of the results we have had of what I would call high-conservative liberalism in the United States, as the main blame for what is happening to financial turmoil in the world. Yeah, I've been trying to go to the sources. So while a whole world of experts has pointed to poor and inadequate regulation and supervision of the financial market in the United States as the main cause of the crisis we are now seeing, the Progress Party finds its explanation partners on the far right side of American policy, along with, among other things. extreme liberals -- and I'm not the one calling them that, I think it's actually a pretty good name -- in American politics, among other things. former Presidential candidate Ron Paul. So, just to take it, Ron Paul is the man who thinks that one should abolish all income taxes in the United States, report the United States out of NATO, the WTO and the United Nations, and that the central bank should be shut down in order not to regulate anything. It's nice people to be in company with, I think. Per Sandberg of the Progress Party also says - in the tabloid variant - that this is a result of the fact that there is too much socialism, so read: too little of what Ron Paul and other extremist librarians in the United States think should be the answer when the financial sector now falls in the United States. Yes, you need to hear a lot of diversions in Norwegian politics, but I think this is taking a whole lot of cake. So while Presidential candidates McCain and Obama in the United States are almost fighting over who has the greatest credibility in regulating and monitoring the financial sector, the Progress Party is going to go the wrong way. It places not only the party on the outer edge of the right side of Norwegian politics, but also in the world, in my opinion. Among other things, the party of progress is leaning. on an old law from 1977 -- this is still American policy, I'm sorry, President, but I just have to go through this too -- the so-called Community Reinvestment Act, that is, CRA, as proof that much of the cause of the crisis is just too much regulation. The Vice-President of the Progress Party - I repeat it again - also made it clear earlier in the debate today that none of what has happened in the United States could happen in Norway with forward-looking party policy, or a policy that is summarised in the current party programme as follows: «Money and credit markets shall be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention.» I could go far into the counter-arguments as to why this so-called 1977 law is the reason for the regulation. I think that if you just read up on the sources that are on the Internet and elsewhere where people have things on American politics, you'll find that that's not right. I believe that the only good thing that comes out of the financial crisis we are now in is that the political differences to those degrees are no longer obscure. I think we are going to have a political debate that will make it more clear to the voters before the elections next year that there are also major differences in Norwegian policy when it comes to ideology, visions and how to organise society. I look forward to that. We have that debate for one year, and I challenge the Progress Party to be so clear and brave they are just dry. It'll be exciting to see if they dare to show the cards out completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2819	It's been interesting to read through the languages of the throne. It says clearly: ‘The Government’s objective is a new course for Norway.’ And if you read on, it says in every political area that ‘the government will take care of’ and ‘the government will continue’. So where's the new course? Is there a new course to ‘take care of’? Is it a new course to ‘continue’ the current policy and medicine? This shows a little new course. It also says in the throne that the Government will continue to strengthen the minimum pensions. With respect to reporting, the husband of freedom must be searched for a long time. The truth is, this government has not increased the minimum pension by a single fresh dollar. The truth is that this government has been raping 2 billion kroner from the country's retirement pensioners, disability pensioners and survivors' pensioners. Exactly 1 billion and 948 million. kr they have raped from this group. The reality is that it's Per from Tromsø, who's an old-age pensioner, or Tore from Sauda, who's a disability pensioner, or Berit from Grünerløkka, who's a widow, who has to cover the retirement this year. And when the government says to continue this policy, to strengthen the minimum pensions in the future, it means that the current government is still sending the bill to the country's pensioners. Everything points to that when you read the census. The truth is that only the Progress Party has proposed to increase the minimum pension, but then to all the minimum pensioners, by the fact that the State will take the bill, not by sending the bill to the pensioners. At least this proposal has been promoted by the signatories eight times in the last three years, and the red-green parties have voted against every two times. Another area addressed in the declaration is poverty. I record that a lot of time is spent in the declaration itself to describe poverty and everything to do to combat poverty. I also note that the Government has not found this debate so important that it has given the Council of State time for the debate today in that area. The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The Government will present a comprehensive plan for the eradication of poverty.’ Then it is interesting to read the Address Paper on 9 May this year: ‘Fresh figures show that Norway received 10,000 more poor in the first year of red-green government.’ The figures presented by the SSB showed that 196,000 lived in poor households after a year of red-green government, compared with 185,000 years earlier. Today's government is naturally trying to blame its predecessors. But also here is the reality that the government has now been sitting for three years without having taken the necessary action. In the evening post of 10 September 2004, it was stated in an article that the then Bondevik II government chose the OECD definition for poverty. It made the red-green parts look red at the time. They accused the government of choosing the most comfortable definition. The centre party Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said in that article that they would introduce the EU standard also in Norway. The representative Karin Andersen from SV did not have much to do with that definition either. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 8 May 2008, it was found that the sitting red-green government itself has chosen the OECD poverty definition. So, in 2004, the red-green parties - the opposition - stated that they had nothing to do with the definition they chose when they came into government. Furthermore, Jusprofessor Jan Fridthjof Bernt said in the Evening Post on 31 July last that the legal security of social clients is a ‘combat to the welfare state’. On 15 August 2007, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, then Minister for Labour and Inclusion, said to the evening post that the review of social assistance rates and the social assistance system would take place over the years. Where's the review of the times gone? When can we expect the review of the times for the social welfare recipients to come? Nothing has happened so far, at least. I record that it is almost a paradox that the food chain Kiwi has done more to secure green and fruit for the poor of the country than what the sitting government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2856	I would argue that we have a government without visions for Norway and how we as a society can best position ourselves to the challenges of the future. In the last few days, we have been presented with the speech of the throne, the announcement of the state of the kingdom, and today the debate of the throne with the Prime Minister in the beginning. Not a single overall strategic idea of how the Government wants to take Norway into the future has been entrenched from these events. However, the government is continuing to waver, marked by internal disagreements and disputes in major political areas, which result only in one thing, namely that little is being done. And it's not just us in the Right and in the Opposition who have discovered this. No, 75 pst. of the Norwegian people don't think the government will survive the election. People aren't stupid. They see that the government does not deliver the goods, but is best at rhetoric and big words. But one rhetorical concept is common to all. Then they like to hang on: community rather than tax havens to the rich. In this debate too, we have heard of Stoltenberg and the false rhetoric of others from the 2005 election campaign. What kind of fellowship and what kind of tax haven are they really talking about? What community is it that has been strengthened under the government of Stoltenberg? They have not removed poverty, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration - rather, on the contrary, it has become increasingly visible. Indebtedness advisors and social services work high to help people who don't get to meet. Hospital cows grow and create insecurity, and the promised interaction reform continues to glow with its absence. The child's haillifts are not kept. No, the government has to endure strong criticisms and reactions to the underfinancing of the child hail lifts, now last from Labour Party rapporteur Rita Ottervik in Trondheim, who accuses the Government of the breach of promises. It's a powerful diet. She claims it's 54 million. Just in Trondheim. The only place that has really happened is a strengthening of communion with this government, is between the LO, the Workers' Party and the rest of the Government. Then time will show if it was good for the country. What kind of tax relief is it that government parties almost without exception contribute to their rhetoric, even here today? Well, tax credits to the kingdoms of the Bondevik II government are the transit rhetoric. Yeah, I guess. So let's think about this a little bit. Who are these kingdoms Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party believe has got too much? Under the Bondevik II government, the minimum deduction increased sharply in both crowns and percentages. Are these the ones that have become too rich? 1.3 million Norwegians who own their own apartments or houses did not pay taxes on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings. Are these the ones that have become too rich? When the Right came into government in 2001, two out of three in full-time jobs paid top taxes, or coca taxes, as the socialists baptized it. The Bondevik II government took a power cut, and nearly 250,000 people with normal income came out of the top tax trap. Are these the ones that became too rich? Under the Bondevik II government, the prices of domestic air travel fell by 30 p.m., partly due to government charges removed. Is it everyone who travels on family visits or runs small businesses in District Norway that have become too rich? Lower taxes also provide safer jobs. That's why the Right and Bondevik II government got the investment fee removed - a fee that had to be paid by companies that wanted to bet new, that would invest to secure jobs and create new ones. This was also the largest single item for tax relief. The items I have mentioned are the main items of fiscal and tax law that the Right and the Bondevik II government led. It didn't create any crooks, but it gave home and home security to ordinary people and motivated business to bet, to the joy of workers and many communities - a bet and optimism that has given this government large tax revenues and much more to route with than the Bondevik II government had. In the transport sector, there has been a total standstill in reforms and innovation. While the Bondevik II government reformed and modernised the transport sector with the creation of Mesta and Avinor and reforms in rail and Post, there is therefore no renewal and modernisation during this government. The success of the Bondevik II Government on the road side, the OPS projects in the South and in the Trøndelag are not followed up. For three years we've been given the same answer: wait and see-- despite the fact that everyone involved, including the floors, now sees that this is the way to go. Project financing, says the Soria Moria declaration, the alternative red-green mantra of the OPS solution. No, said Stoltenberg the following year, and scribbled this. We're financing projects, he said. Today we have heard a Minister of Transport who spoke out against this, but then as a party leader - she clarified. On the roadside, the relative share has fallen below the red-greens, and we get less money. After the first two financial years, we see that this government is only 90 pst. of the degree of compliance of the Bondevik II administration on the number of kilometres of road. No, this is not a government that gives people a Soria Moria to believe in. This is a government that has more than enough to balance fragile compromises. It does not create any belief in the future or optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2886	The previous speaker, Eyvind Halleraker, said that the government has not followed up its child hail lifts. On that occasion I must be allowed to inform Mr. Halleraker and give the happy message that the red-green government is actually about to pass the finish line in the job of getting kindergarten space for all the children in Norway who want it. In over 400 of the country's municipalities, there is today full child care coverage, and about 96 pst. of the children who started school in the fall have gone to kindergarten. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have become an offer to the large majority of children between 1 and 6 years of age. The 2002 kindergarten agreement and the subsequent massive expansion of kindergartens are a major reform which means much to young children’s parents. Newly-baked parents now do not lose their night sleep – which they unfortunately did so often before – because of the lack of childcare facilities for the little one. There is no small reform that has been implemented. Since 2003, more than 60,000 children have been accommodated in kindergarten. Today, we spend SEK 13.8 billion more on kindergartens than in 2003. This means an increase of 170 pst. At the same time as the massive expansion, the price of kindergarten has been reduced. We have introduced a maximum price, which is now $2,330. In municipal kindergartens, the price of a kindergarten is reduced by 37 p.p., while in private kindergartens, the price is almost halved. These price reductions have resulted in even more parents being able to afford to have their children in kindergarten, which in turn has resulted in an even greater demand for kindergarten space than we could see in 2003. Right, with Jan Tore Sanner at the head, has recently criticized the Government for misusing the profits of the oil fund by, among other things, to bet on kindergartens and care instead of on infrastructure. Unlike the Right and the Representative Sanner, the Working Party does not see kindergarten as a cost. We view kindergartens as a prerequisite for women's participation in the profession and thus as an important contribution to the value creation in Norway. The same is highlighted in the World Economic Forum's report on competition, where the Nordic countries are ranked among the ten most competitive economies. It emphasises that welfare benefits such as kindergartens and good parental leave schemes are an economic competitive advantage because they contribute to high professional participation and thus high value creation. Over the three years of the red-greens, cultural life has experienced good days. Four and a half years ago, SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party launched the cultural initiative. This was the first area in which we red-green developed common policies and which would be followed up if it became red-green in 2005. And culture has become an important field of activity for the Government. In three budgets, more than three billion more have been allocated to culture and non-governmental organisations. The cultural field has been raised in the first division of policy and is now competing for the large increases in the state budget. The red-green government has made a historic promise that has changed Norway and that shows that it is of great importance who governs the country. I think there are few or none in Culture-Norway who want a progress party dominated right-wing government after the next election. Culture-Norway fears it because they know that with the Advancement Party at the rudder, we will have a poorer cultural life dominated by a one-sided commercial expression. They know that it's not like the Progress Party likes to think, that by cutting the cultural budget, most people can choose what are important cultural arenas for them. They know that most people get less choice, and in many cases no choice at all. When it's cut in cultural appropriations, it's they with a lot of resources and a lot of money to take off that decides what is culture for most people. A red-green government will continue the cultural promise after next year's magnificence. With a progress party-dominated right-wing government, Kultur-Norway can experience a real blue day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2916	First, I want to say a few words about the throne itself. In the Common Era, the Government’s agenda for the next session is presented. It struck me that in this year's census, there was an estimation of big business messages and propositions. There's nothing wrong with that, but if the census had been a school style and I should have fixed it, it would have got the following comment: Fine content, but focus and commitment are missing. And it wouldn't have gotten the best grade. The contents of this year's census were as expected and in line with the Government's Soria Moria statement. But it was a surprise without glow, without enthusiasm and without the message that one would want when the lines of Norwegian policy were to be laid for the coming year. I wish for a government and a throne speech that in large letters said and affirmed that yes, We are going to target the fight against poverty in Norway so that the difference between people does not increase, we are going to ensure that all those who have drug problems are treated without waiting, we are going to take seriously that child protection has a record of issues, and we are going to look at and do something about the reasons why children and families are struggling. That's how I could keep going. But I want to say something about today's debate, because it's, as expected, a lot about the financial crisis. The Prime Minister spoke in his speech about the Norwegian model of building on good cooperation between the state and private capital, that we have public governance of the financial and capital markets, and that the Norwegian model is based on a strong public sector. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that we in Norway have a model that makes Norway better equipped than most people to face such a financial crisis. The model protects the population against strong fluctuations in markets. The Christian People's Party also wants a strong public sector and good Community solutions. However, Community solutions must include the voluntary sector. Community solutions must be targeted in order to meet those who need them. Community solutions shall be a safety network. It doesn't mean equal solutions, but equal rights. Let me give you an example: the right to babysitting. The Christian People's Party wants both full child care coverage and a lower parental payment, and we want an income-based parental payment. Should it really be equal to right, the place should cost much less or preferably be free for single parents who have bad finances. It must be cheaper for them than for those who serve well. There is no disagreement that those who have earned the most that the parental payment in the nursery has fallen are parents with high incomes. The Prime Minister used much of his intervention to defend the Norwegian model and Norwegian welfare. The Christian People's Party wants not only to defend but to improve and develop our Community solutions. Because it is wrong if full child care coverage in the country becomes short-lived because private kindergartens are not guaranteed a necessary and predictable funding. It is also wrong that more and more drug treatment institutions are struggling with the economy and need to reduce as their need increases. The Christian People's Party wants a government that focuses on the community finding good solutions for individuals, not on uniting Community solutions. Finally, I want to make some clear expectations for tomorrow. The Christian People's Party believes that municipalities are the main providers of basic welfare services in Norway. Municipalities are responsible for good child rearing conditions, kindergarten with room for everyone who wants it, a primary school of quality, a worthy care for the elderly and a wide range of cultural services. That is why we must give the municipalities good framework conditions. The government has created great expectations in Kommune-Norway, and tomorrow the government has to provide a budget in which there is consistency between the tasks to be performed by municipalities and the growth they receive in the free revenues. If the municipalities are to be able to achieve full child care with good quality and low prices, they must be able to increase the teacher's density and provide a good and free primary school, a worthy care for the elderly, an offensive economic development and a rich cultural life, yes, then the growth of free income must be much greater than that announced in the municipal proposition. Increased frameworks for municipalities should mean that municipalities are given greater financial space and freedom to decide on their own bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2954	There has been a long and good debate so far, but it is not finished at all. Some of what I think has been most interesting with the debate, has been the focus that has been on the Progress Party - and if it is a preparation for the next harvest, of course, I would like to welcome it warmly. I'm assuming that I don't have everyone with me in that challenge, in this opportunity. But if the political situation so warrants, I can warn people here tonight, that it might be more frequent than the majority here today strictly want. So it's going to be a choice, and a choice gives new opportunities, just as the government foresaw that it wants to take hold of things and do things in a different way. For my part, I miss a debate on how to focus more on how to do things in this country. We boast that we are one of the richest countries in the world. We have good solutions, some say we even have optimal solutions. But it would have been tempting to ask if there is a truth that everyone is behind. There are probably few countries that spend so much on their health care system and at the same time have corridor Asiates. There are few countries - with the resources we have - that have as poor road standards as we have. There are few countries with such wealth that have as old an automobile park as we have. I think, with respect to reporting, that it is tragic to hear that even Albania has hit us in terms of having the oldest car park in Europe. It is possible that this is a wild policy of the red-green government. In that case, I am happy that I stand for something else. It is possible that there is a wild policy to have corridor Asians in hospitals in one of the richest countries in the world. In that case, I want to be an opponent of it. Sometimes there is also a big debate in Norway about how we organise our school and schoolwork. It is a discussion of whether small classes are significantly better than large classes. At least, at my discretion, the feedback is that it is not automatic in that small classes produce a better result. I think the answer is much more about the teacher's role and the quality of the teacher. Good teachers get good results. Not quite so good teachers get not quite so good results in school. I think our challenge is there. So if we want to contribute to a safe and secure future, the school is one of the primary places to bet. So my challenge to this government will be to look even more at the big lines. A few days ago, I had the pleasure of seeing the Minister of Renewal on TV, where she spoke about the form field and the level of difficulty. I registered that the Council of State said that she should look at this. I wonder what the Council of State has been looking at in the previous three years. It can't possibly be the same forms, because in that case I expect the Council of State to have done something about it. If not, it would be looking both for the Council of State and for all of us affected by the form field here in the country. Nevertheless, there's another topic, another area, that engages me at least as much as what I've been talking about now, namely the justice sector. I think, with respect to reporting, that it is currently being treated poorly. I'm recording that the Government of the Throne has two points where you name it. If it says anything about the level of ambition of the Government, I'm not overwhelmed by that part either. At the same time, we see an increased focus on the challenges that Police-Norway is facing. I feel that the government is much more concerned about taking care of the prisoners than about taking over and understanding the everyday life of people working in the department that is the safety belt between right and wrong for all of us when things are extremely difficult. I also register that some people in this house believe that this is an illegal action. In that case, it would be possible to do something about it as well, I think. We have a suitable contract agency to handle this. What is at least a fact is that the police Norway today is standing about on the ground resting, and that they are running idle. I must say that those who have not read it should read the post that a police officer in the East has in a newspaper today, where he underlines the seriousness of the situation out there. He asks a timely question: what do we do if there is an extreme situation and we expect the police to put it up - and they don't do it for resource reasons? So what are we going to do? Should we then send the matter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at Stortinget, which will analyse what happened and why? Is it not better now to take this into account together? I think I have the hall with me in that you need to make a lift. I would appreciate if one stopped discussing whether it is the Jagland government, whether it is the Bondevik II government or the current government that has been the best in education. In fact, it takes at least three years to get it done. It doesn't help per. today to train people who are going to work in three years. We have to act now, and we have to act in a new way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e2973	It is a long-standing global boom that is now ending with a financial crisis that is shaking the world economy. This boom had been a few years when today’s government parties won the election in 2005. The voters thought at the time that the right side abused the chances that the good economic times gave. Instead of strengthening the community and combating poverty, the Bondevik government and its supporting party, the Progress Party, chose to strangle the community through tight public budgets, privatisation and tax relief. In the workplace, the protection against dismissal was weakened, the door was wide open for temporary employment, open for homeless working hours and ignored social dumping. When the voters said no to this policy and gave the majority of the government parties today, it was because we aim to involve everyone in the development of wealth. The right knife still says that the table was covered when today's government took over. That's possible, but there were not many places around that table. We're the ones who invited everyone to the party. We said no to tax havens and yes to more community. We reversed the weakening of the Working Environment Act on the right. This is how we create a more inclusive working life. We made sure that the cuts in the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed were reversed. This is how we relieve the burden on those who are out of work and on their families. We've taken up the fight against social dumping. This is how we create a more decent working life. We have an active industrial and labour market policy. In this way, we have more than halved unemployment and contributed to a historical growth in employment. We have an active policy to combat poverty. That's how we've had a sharp decline in the number of social welfare recipients. We've spent the good time drawing everyone. Many are concerned about the future when they read about the crisis in the international financial system. What's my future like? Do I have a job tomorrow? They are concerned because we know from experience that economic crises always hit ordinary people hardest. Nothing is more to the detriment of reconciliation and decent working conditions than a reduction in working hours and high unemployment. For this reason, it is important that periods of recession meet with a policy of employment, decent social conditions, cohesion and poverty - in other words, the policy we have pursued in the last three years. The Progress Party has consistently pursued a different policy in all these areas. With this party's economic policy, we would get higher interest rates, increased unemployment as a result of problems to the competitive industry. In labour policy, the party is going against the protection afforded to workers by a good work environment law and is moving towards effective measures against social dumping. In their programme, they insist on restrictions on strike rights, and they claim that country-wide collective agreements, and with the Norwegian labour market model, are a threat to a free labour market. The question we have to ask ourselves is, Who would profit from having a working life where the ideals of the Advancement Party prevail? It is definitely not the cleaning workers, the maids in the hotels or, for that matter, the carpenter on the building. It will be the employers, the shareholders, those who consider wages and salaries as costs, the protection against dismissal as a stapler and trade unions as a trustee. In an uncertain time of investment drought and lack of capital, many jobs are uncertain. With the policies of the Progress Party, the workers would be left to themselves and the goodwill of the employer. With our policies, they can trust that they have a government that puts them and their welfare ahead of tax havens and market power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3002	A few days ago, 153. The big thing was opened -- a solemn and nice opening that for all of us, no matter where we stand, will be remembered as a positive experience. But something was very different this time, and it was the number of soldiers that made up the parade along Karl Johan. This year's parade consisted of approx. 400 soldiers. It goes without saying that this is going to be small, as it used to be double. In my time as a member of the Defense Department, it was an honorable assignment and something we looked forward to with joy. The reason why there is now so little to this is the lack of soldiers and the poor economy. Just this parade shows how the defense stands today. Another example can be found in the September 2008 issue of the professional journal Norway’s defence, where an article says that the Army is being built up, not built up. Here we can read that the Army has cut up 80 war chariots of the type Leopard 1 A5. These were modernized and more advanced than Russia used recently in Georgia. In addition, the Army now accepts 878 vehicles of various types, including: 100 hexagonal wheels, trucks, 250 BV 206, plant machinery, etc. In addition to these vehicles, 380 shall be suspended from the system. According to the Defence Network, this disposal is due to a lack of garage space. I thought that, among other things, garage spaces were something the defense had enough of. The third example I'd like to mention to show you which way the defense is going is for apprentices. In civil matters, every other apprentice agrees to a further job. In the defense, they can only keep one out of five, i.e. at 80 pst. ends. Why? The Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that wants a real increase in the defence budget. This is what the Progress Party wants, because we believe the Defence Organisation is too small as it is today. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the defence suffers from a lack of material and sufficient means of operation. The defence organisation shall be able to perform the tasks assigned to the defence. This is actually a big point. An organisation must be dimensioned according to tasks and requirements, not vice versa. As it is today, I have a feeling that the tasks and assignments need to be adapted to the organisation. Of course it is to some extent as it must be, but a fixed size of the organisation must not limit the necessary tasks and tasks. With the organisation to which it is added in the adopted long-term plan, there will be no real consistency between tasks and the organisation. There will also be no correlation between the economy and the size and mission of the organisation. This will in the long term make the situation of the defence considerably worse than it already is. NATO is the cornerstone of our security and defence anchoring. However, I would like to point out the importance of Norway finding a credible celebration in the development of defence policy cooperation in the EU. Norway should take this into account, for example: actively stimulate the development of pooling and training for strengths from European countries. This can be further developed from among others. North Sea cooperation, but also through other cooperation with the EU. The Advance Party is concerned that the Defense will have access to appropriate technology, and we are willing to provide enough money both for this and for the rest of the Defense. The Progress Party is concerned that Norway is proving to be a stable partner to our allies. It is important that Norway continues to carry out foreign missions and cooperate with its allies, so that the defence has a relevant experience base in order to be able to operate coordinated with allied nations in the event of wars and crises, as well as other operations of the species we have seen in recent years. We are concerned with the involvement in foreign operations that it is necessary to see the mission in its entirety, also considering the duration of the exposure. This has consequences for what operations we should engage in. As I see it, it's important to be able to have a continuity of engagement. This gives a signal that Norway has a stable and firm policy in relation to the involvement of allies. The size of the exposure is determined by available resources. The Progress Party will stress that whether or not our soldiers are going to operate abroad, they need education, training and practice. The training in the Defence must be relevant to the tasks and tasks to be performed by the Defence. Increasingly advanced equipment requires many ways more of the soldiers today than before. Training is therefore becoming increasingly technical and challenging. Finally, I would like to say that there is no contradiction between a national defence and a foreign defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3037	Today is a good day. The Minister for Transport has announced that plans will be made for Oslo-Ski in the budget tomorrow. This is very good for Follo. That's good for the whole Austland, yes, actually for the whole nation, for people who commute, and not least for business. In recent years, business in this country has had very good times. We've had record high growth and record low unemployment. We've had the boom of time. At this time, the government has invested in facilitating the creation of value-added, business development and innovation. There has been an active industrial policy in which the Government has arranged for Norway to be a good country to run business. In a recent ranking from the World Bank, Norway is actually in the tenth place of 181 countries. Now, when we go into the fourth and last year of the ageing period, it's with a backstop of international financial turmoil that we have to take seriously. This turbulence also affects us here in the country. We have a small, open economy, and the activity in Norwegian industry is closely linked to the rest of the world. As we heard from the Prime Minister earlier in the debate, we are better equipped than many other countries to meet this demanding situation on the financial market. The reason for this is among other things. The government’s responsible economic policy combined with the active industrial policy and a strong and active state ownership. Basically, there is a high employment rate and a generally good economy among the majority of people. For we have invested in value creation and public welfare over tax relief for those who already have the most. New measures have given us more work to do, and it is the most important response to poverty and to cushioning social divides. After the government took over, as many as 200,000 more came out of work. In contrast to the previous government’s business neutrality, there is now a particular focus within the industries where we have competence or special advantages. We have put forward a maritime strategy that the industry has taken well against, and a fleet tax system similar to that in Europe has been in place, which industry has been asking for for many years. We've had a strong investment in travel throughout the entire period. There is a focus on the marine sector, focusing on fair distribution, sustainability and value creation along the whole coast. Resource control is strengthened, and the fight against blackfish yields results. Fishing industries have seen good money coming together in recent years, both fishing fleets, aquaculture and processing industries. The last time today we have been told that the export of fish has increased by 22 pst. in September of this year in relation to September 2007. All these rises are followed up by national strategies, action plans, new instruments and concrete promises of the state budget every year. The new conversion law came into force in July. Both the Right Party and the Progress Party have spent a lot of time criticising the laws that have measures to prevent the closure of businesses and that aim to reduce negative impacts if businesses have to be reduced. In fact, in times of uncertainty, there is extra certainty that we have put in place measures to ensure that communities and individuals are taken into account, while the potential of enterprises to relocate is maintained. Conversion is decisive for the competitiveness of enterprises and future value creation. During the fall, the Minister of Industry will present the innovation message - after a long process involving many actors across the country. There are clear and clear ideological differences between the Stoltenberg government and the policy of a possible government with the Progress Party and the Right. It is important that the Right Party and the Progress Party clarify to the business community what kind of business policy they will pursue if they are to cooperate. We see that there is a big gap between the two right parties on central issues of enterprise policy, among other things. State ownership, investment in the tools and labour immigration. Nor has today's debate so far made it clear what kind of policy a possible government with the Progress Party and the Right will lead. We still see a big gap between the two right parties, especially when it comes to economic policy. Today, the leader of Right, Erna Solberg, has guaranteed several times from the pulpit that the Right should pursue a tight economic policy, while the Progress Party is still spreading around with promises in the billions class, miles above the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3063	We have pointed out from the centre party earlier in this debate that it is important to raise our eyes and see the global challenges we face, which also have implications for our country in the short and long term. Globally, we are facing both a food crisis, an energy crisis and a climate crisis. 900 million people starve no - 900 million. The number is increasing for the first time in several years. The varying prices of oil in the last few months have not only shown us the consequences of fluctuations in the oil price on the international economy and too many people on the globe, but they also remind us of how dependent we have on fossil energy. This makes the dimensions of the energy conversion that the world faces over the coming decades, if possible even larger. The major global challenges are in many ways in contrast to our secret debate. For many political leaders around the world, Norway must be like a dream society, a society of possibilities - and we have many possibilities. We have greater possibilities than most other countries on the globe. We have to see these possibilities, and we have to know to make use of them. The centre party is overconfident that future renewable energy needs to be built on. A large-scale conversion must already be started now. There's no other way to make sure that those who come after us here on Earth have the same access to clean air, clean soil, clean water and a climate that makes it possible to live here on Earth for the next hundred years. In climate work, the old rule is that no one can do anything, but everyone can do anything. Norway does not account for much of the global climate change emissions. At the same time, all countries can rightly claim that they are not the problem. The sum of climate emissions is the problem. This is why all countries have a responsibility to contribute. In particular, as a rich country, we have a moral responsibility to contribute. Few countries have the same possibilities as we do. We have large unused resources within renewable energy. We have to do more of them. We need to bet even heavier on wind power, on- and offshore. We have to expand more of the potential we have left within the water force. We need to exploit the vast unused resources we have, to generate bioenergy, build knowledge for the exploitation of energy sources that are still immature, develop technologies that both here and elsewhere in the world can contribute to the transition from the fossil to the renewable energy society. The government has invested more than any government in these areas. That doesn't mean we lean back and we're satisfied. The challenges ahead give no room for it. More than ever, there is a need to step up ambitions and strengthen efforts. Bioenergy is an example of something that, with the right bet, can provide heat and hot water for large parts of the building mass. This will be the correct and wise use of that resource. We can free up valuable electrical power. In the future, passenger car transport is an area which should be electrified to a much greater extent than today. We have to use the right energy where we get the most out of him, and save energy where we can. Energy efforts, with the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies, must be our main contribution to the green energy that the world community is facing, if we are to achieve the targets we have seen in the climate field, and limit the global temperature rise to two degrees. There is no contradiction between the desire for development, jobs and industrial development in this country and the global contribution to climate change. Our natural resources make it possible to create both development, jobs and contribute to global climate work. The center party is aware that we see and use the possibilities that lie in these areas for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3087	The Labour Party promised voters in the 2005 election that higher taxes would provide more well-being. After three years, we see that higher taxes have given less well-being. The breakup government has ensured that there are now 40,000 more in hospital queues than in 2005. Child-restraint children are thrown away and forced out of their homes. Poverty is increasing. The provision of treatment to drug users and chronically ill people in need of rehabilitation is being reduced. However, the majority of public welfare is created in the municipal sector. The headline in Dagbladet yesterday speaks for itself: ‘No more well-being with Stoltenberg’, which confirms the central association of the municipalities and the union – i.e. both the employers’ and employees’ side of the municipal sector. The head of the KS, Halfdan Skard, says: «More municipalities do not discuss, but where to take the cuttings.» This is in stark contrast to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs' message at the two-year anniversary of the Government just one year ago: ‘It is over that it is solely about cutting’. Then one wonder: what has happened, because the municipalities have not received more money? In this throne debate we have heard of the 20 billion that the municipalities have received from the Government. But even municipal crowns can't be used more than once. Municipalities had a significant upturn in 2006, mainly due to exceptional tax revenue. But this growth was not followed up in 2007, and it has not been followed up now in 2008. However, there was no reason for local politicians to believe that growth in 2006 should not continue. After all, the government had gone to elections largely on promises on behalf of the municipalities, and according to the Soria Moria declaration, the revenues of the municipalities were to be secured through a multi-annual escalation plan. However, the 2006 escalation was actually over before the escalation plan was launched in 2007. In fact, the fasitite after two years of the Government's escalating plan is two years with a reduction in municipal free income compared to the previous year. As a result, cost growth in municipalities was well above income growth. It was reinforced by the fact that the Government assigned new tasks to the municipalities that were not fully financed. A clear example of this is Trondheim, who's left with a $54 million bill. kr as a result of increased child care costs, even if the State and the Government had agreed to take the entire bill. This money must be covered either through free income, which has fallen, or through cuts. The answer gives itself. The Central Association of Municipalities therefore states in its recent report on the situation in Kommune-Norway: ‘Calculations show that there has been no room for increased standard and coverage of municipal services financed by free revenues as far as the grossing-up period.’ This somewhat dry and squeaky quote reveals Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's grossest bluff, namely that the 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly have not become 10,000 new hands to raise the standard, but that the increase in the number has agreed to maintain the standard that was already there, because the needs have increased. The breakup took over a welfare municipality with increasing revenue and expenditure under control. After three years, the municipal sector is less equipped to meet tougher times. In the sunshine days, the Prime Minister chose to spend the money a little more on everything, but stopped the work of sealing the roof, so that one was better equipped for rainstorms. 2009 is likely to be the third year in a row where municipalities do not meet the target of 3 pst. in operating profit or loss, and made use of money for maintenance, investments and tougher times. Thus, in the years considered to be the gold years in Norway, the targets were not met. But what are the municipalities facing now? Probably a pretty serious triplet call. The interest rate continues to rise, and municipalities have to finance their investments more heavily because of increased expenditure. 1 percentage point interest rate increase is 850 million. NOK for the municipalities. In good years, municipalities have had their pension bill reduced. Now the share price falls, and life has been adjusted. Thus, a next year will see a significant increase in the pension bill of municipalities. And the stock exchange is raging. The income of persons means a lot to the income of the municipality, and many today choose to realise their stock losses. This goes right into the municipality's economy. This may be the reason why the Government initiates this year's speech that the Government's goal is a new course for Norway. It's a goal that Right Parts, but it's hard to find any trace of this new course in the Government's own throne speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3122	The President will state that the word 'bluff' is 'unparliamentary'.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3125	The census contains many words about what the government is going to do in the coming year. But where has it become of children and young people? Has the red-green government forgotten them? And where has it become of the weakest of the children and young people? Not one word is sacrificed on these -- despite the fact that 40,000 children are now under some kind of child protection measure, and this despite the challenges we face in the field. Over the past week, we have come to realize that the children's representative, Hjermann, and former councillor, Davøy, are concerned that the reform of child protection is looking more to the economy than to the needs of the individual child. A very good, but a very sad example of this was seen in the NRK Focus report on Camilla and the Svalstien last week. A youth who couldn't help but get to the right cold got one rejection after another, and the uncertainty about her future was to take on and feel. There were probably a lot more people than me who were left with both a lump in their throats and a white rage against the authorities, who don't care how kids and young people who are at risk are doing. This may not have been the intention of the reform. The Progress Party has on several occasions warned against moving too fast. We have repeatedly pointed out that it is unfortunate to conclude measures that work, before having a real offer to the vulnerable children and young people. We don't have to make kids caste balls in systems that obviously think more of economics than children's best. As far as I remember, SV also meant this when the reform was introduced, but it looks like they have chosen to forget now. If you think that this story about Camilla is an isolated case, you're wrong, and it's especially the 'difficult young people' who suffer -- those who are not wanted anywhere, who cost too much money. So Norway, this country that is beating its chest for its excellent treatment of people living here, is breaking both the Children's Convention and human rights by letting the economy come before the best of its children. Now that's not just what worries me. Maybe it's just as important that there are bureaucrats, who have no contact with children at all, and decide their future. Too many of the employees in Bufdir and Bufetat, regional offices and professional teams never meet children and young people. If they could take a mandatory year out in the municipalities where the children actually are, they might have got a new perspective on things. It's easy to determine human destiny when you don't have to deal with them. The National Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out the lack of control of the economy of Buffedir and Buffetat, which in itself is very important to point out. But where has it become of all the money? What costs so much more today than before? State child protection has increased by DKK 1.3 billion since the reform was introduced - an increase of over DKK 1 billion! Yes, we have an increase of children under care, but not of such size as Bufdir's increase is. And ioda, there's a lot of kids getting help, but most of these kids get help at home, and it doesn't pay Bufdir. It's the municipality that does. So state child protection gradually reduces the private child protection measures that work, without looking at whether you have a similar offer. And then they use the tendering principle, which in fact is good in itself, but not the way you use it in the state child protection. Here you only look at the price, without looking at the special skills available. So far from private and public institutions, they are treated in a non-quality way. It is not taken into account that some of the institutions have to be available to provide emergency services for children or young people who need special care. The reform is not working. There are two things that seem to be criteria for the current government and their assessment of the child protection reform. It is that it should be cheap and that it should be public. The Progress Party has supported not placing children and young people in institutions as far as it was done earlier, but we do not, of course, support the provision of services for those children and young people who cannot be placed in foster homes. These children, too, deserve a real offer, as was the case with the Svalstien and several other private child protection institutions that are now closed. Child protection must protect children and young people who, for some reason, cannot live at home. The measures proposed by municipal child protection should not be subject to review by bureaucrats [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3148	A short time ago, I visited the Velle Entwicklung company in Tønsberg. It is a company that has been in the best position for over 40 years and is now a job for about 200 people. It goes with a fine profit that is ploughed all the way back to the company. Well developed is clearly part of the type of business that will be exposed to competition if the country, against assumption, would have a Advance Party and Right- predominant government after the election next year. In that case, it will lead to a transition that is guaranteed not to benefit all those who need help to open the door to work. When I pull out exactly this type of business, it's precisely because Well Development and similar businesses are one of our best and foremost tools in the fight against poverty. Here young people who have dropped out of school can be caught and given practical training and work experience. Here, people with a crooked start in life can take it back to their lives and be brought back to work. In this context, social clients can be managed from passive social security reception to active work. Long-term unemployed people can have the necessary retraining and work experience. Immigrants can become familiar with Norwegian working life at the same time as they learn Norwegian. Indeed, well-developed and the many labour market businesses around the country have a very important and important task: they build people up into a worthwhile life, nothing less. During my visit to Velle, I was shown around by a guy who had certainly not received so many chances in life, but who, after a turbulent youth, had taken a course of vocational training in a mature age, and who was to receive the result of the master's degree in mechanical engineering just that day. Without me having to describe this in more detail, I briefly mention that I was shown around by a man who had recovered the threat of life. For many, the way to or back to work is also the way out of poverty, unemployment and drug addiction. In many cases it is also the way out of solitude. The main gain of this government is that it has almost abolished unemployment. Value creation has increased sharply, and Norwegian enterprises have, until this day, been frightened by skilled labour. So we've been through a period when those who are usually at the back of the job queue have also had room for work. It's not written in the stars that this will last. On the contrary, it can be very difficult to keep employment up when the international financial crisis strikes over the country. And we know who it's going to hit in the first row. It's so easy to forget, when everything goes down, and most of the attention is directed towards the content of your own wallets, that the fight against unemployment will always be the job number one for a red-green government. Therefore, it is so important that labour market measures, including the allocation of labour market enterprises, are maintained at a high level. In the middle of a demanding reform, where NAV seems to have more than enough to organise itself, it is important to maintain high levels of labour market preparedness. Here, labour market enterprises still have to play an important key role. The fight against poverty must be fought on many fronts and by different means. Many of those who struggle most depend on social security and/or social assistance. I am pleased that the Government and the Pensioners' Association negotiated a sharp increase in the minimum pensions at the time of the year's social security settlement. On the other hand, I am stated that more and more municipalities are taking money from the very poorest by adding child benefit to the calculation basis for social assistance. After I have been informed, it is now lower than 120 municipalities that reduce their social benefits in this way. If one of the children in a family receiving social assistance were to speculate on the pocket money by going with newspapers, it also leads to shortening social assistance in many municipalities. I think this is quite unworthy, and it affects very much children who are certainly not born with silver spoons in their mouths. Knowing that social security is defined as income, I would in fact ask the Government to look into the practice that is now taking place in those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3171	I am engaged in education policy for the Left, and it was with some wonder that I heard the combined Minister for the Environment and Aid earlier today proclaim that market liberalism was dead. For my part, I learned about John Maynard Keynes at school, and I learned that New Deal was about the policy that is now being practiced in Europe and that the Americans must follow. And I've learned for the most part that John Maynard Keynes and New Deal and this kind of adapted liberal policy are standard recipes. I'm very surprised when a government council with normal generalisation can speak so unintelligiblely in the hall. Maybe there's a rash of this government's bet - in the throne you almost have to use magnifying glass to find the word'research'. It is found to be adequately related to the climate challenges. But in a situation where everyone agrees that we have a financial crisis -- we sit and evaluate when we're going to do what, and with what tools -- and we have an underlying climate crisis, I experience, at least when I read and think about what I've learned when I've been educated in this country, and when I travel elsewhere, that all the societies that rate and believe in research to create the unborn business, all the societies that believe in this to make sure that the citizens are formed and educated, are doing well. In the middle of this situation, we stumble Internet users over the Secretariat Manager of the Swedish Federation at Stortinget, who believe that we are spending too much money on research, and who are even able to run a successful disinformation campaign on the Swedish Tax Fund scheme, where we are going to spend billions of dollars. As far as I know, we're using a billion. As far as I know, according to the Central Statistical Office's evaluation, we're going to get two dollars for each of the heads we put in. And as far as I know, the companies pay 80 pst. It's self. So this is going to be absolutely amazing, but it's possible that there's no understanding or understanding of the dynamics that are called small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, which carry all the jobs they do and that stand for the innovation they do. It is also possible that the Government has become so concerned that it will be angry with the Progress Party that it forgets to formulate its own policy. Because that's the way it is when you formulate your own policy and what you believe, that it becomes power in something. It is that for an old-fashioned left-wing man who has lived a long time in politics, it is by believing in knowledge and seeking knowledge through sparkling good education and through research that you promise and build a society. I even learned from the old social democrats who lived around me when I grew up, who then owned the country, that we built the country by believing in knowledge and believing in research. We never built the country by saying no, research is statistically a little bit too much, we have a little bit of plunder with the relationship between the OECD average and a number that we don't really like that Kristin Clement got the Stortinget in 2005. It's about as defensive and as bad as it can be at all. It is very possible that it is such in the Secretariat of the UK at Stortinget that the intellectual views are not stronger than this, and it is fortunate that it is a government that should be able to respond to this. But it's quite amazing that you're laying down at a time when those of us who travel and see how countries like India and China - countries that want to take off because they want to build communities - believe in research. They're looking for the flying wits, they're spending money on it, and they've realized that this is the modern age so-called. It is the seed capital that is used by lifting up all the people who can and will. At least I can trust the person in question on the website called the World on the left -- vtiv, for those who want to check for and click and read for themselves -- that I have done my microstudies, as it says: I have visited all the researchers who don't get money. I have looked at parts of the scientific equipment that are not as good as it should be. I have inspected a good part of the buildings that are not as good as they should be, even if the government is sure to bring some little joy tomorrow - at least at the odontology in Bergen, because it has told us both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Research. That's good, that's good, but I've been to all of these places, and I know a good part of the grumpy people trying to apply to programs where there's too little money for glop people. I've also been close to the part of business that operates with what we call user-driven innovation arenas, and there's -- and let's now be a advice to the party SV when they're going to evaluate their secretary's intellectual contribution -- the world as I learned from former State Council Per Kleppe once, that if you're going to make good policy, there must be a connection between what happens at micro-level in everyday life, and what you do at macro-level. If you don't understand the dynamics of everyday life, you can never make a policy that it shines off. It is possible that the government has gone so far as to read statistics, and it is possible that the party SV has gone so far as to promise so many things that it is the research that is going to suffer. Personally, I don't mind being pleasantly surprised tomorrow--I'm not sure I will, but if I am, as an old city commissioner, I'll take the joy out in an unforgivable way. The point of this article is that believing in something is believing in investing in knowledge both through school and through research and realizing that it creates business, and it also creates the kind of citizens that make it citizens who own the state and democracy. It is a bit fluent over it, and that must be the case in this debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3186	I want to use a little bit of my post to talk about the Defense and our bet in the North. Initially, I would like to remind you that we adopted a very good long-term defence plan in ours, and for the first time in many years the defence will receive a real strengthening of the budget during the period. Norway, as it is known, has rich natural resources in large seas and borders in the north towards a major power plant. These two factors are very important for our neighbourhood dimension. In addition, there are global challenges and threats, which can also be direct or ring-fenced in our neighbourhood. It is very unlikely that Norway will face a direct territorial military threat. The threat of invasion with the subsequent occupation of Norway cannot therefore be dimensional or governing the design of our defence. However, this does not mean that Norway can completely ignore challenges to the Norwegian territory that need to be met with military instruments. The neighbourhood of Russia remains an important factor for Norwegian security policy, and the concentration of large military resources in our neighbourhoods is a reality that we need to take into account, which we also do. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we said that the northern regions should be a strategic area of activity. For the defence, this meant that more attention should also be paid to increased presence in the northern regions. We have followed this up in the long-term plan, as we know. The government has delivered what it has promised, and so it has. The defence in North Norway has been significantly strengthened by our decision to move Joint Operational Headquarters to Bodø, we have Europe's most modern maritime defence, the army is strengthened in Troms, the Alliert training centre is continued on Åsegarden and on Evenes, and Sørreisa, which was proposed to be laid down, is continued. In recent months, events in Europe with wars between Russia and Georgia have caused many to worry about our situation and whether we can get into a similar position. The right has called for more defence in North Norway, and believes that the Northern Region Strategy of the Government is flawed. Nothing can be more wrong than these statements from the Right. Let me remind Right that our bet on the northern regions began long before the tragic events of the last few months in Georgia. That is why there is no reason why we should change our adopted long-term plan. We have a government that wants to create values that will benefit all the people through good community solutions. Over the three years we have been running, we have changed Norway in essential areas. This, in turn, has resulted in a record high employment rate, and we have more than 11,000 more annual jobs in the care and care sector. The Norwegian people want Community solutions, and believe that society is moving in the right direction. I think this clearly shows that our values are values that have a solid anchor in the Norwegian people. The Progress Party and the Right want the opposite, that is to give tax relief to the rich, eliminate the rights of the workers and create greater differences between the poor and the rich. In my opinion, this will lead us into a society based on the fact that each one has to largely do itself. The Progress Party presents its policy as a kind of glaze that can be poured on the society we have today, and that everyone should stay at the same, just a lot better. I would strongly warn against that. Because that's the opposite that's going to happen, that there's a few that get better, while most people get much worse. The Labour Party acknowledges that there are many tasks that remain unsolved in our society. But we're ready to build Norway further stone by stone, as we've done in the past, to also solve these challenges, if the voters give us new trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3209	Today, it's my last throne debate, at least for a while, and I want to take the opportunity to go through a little of what I've experienced as a magnificence representative in the years I've been here. But first, there's a throne debate today, tomorrow's Christmas Eve, because then this government is presenting its budget. In this context, I am delighted to have responsibility for structural policy in the Financial Committee - it is about structures in business and structures in society, interest rate policy and that kind of thing - and I have to say that during the period I have been responsible for it, I have actually had every reason to be proud. The structures in Norway are basically very good, because we have a government that wants us to have Norwegian seafarers, who want us to have Norwegian breweries, who want to pursue an active industrial policy, and who have come to realize that when Norway is growing, everyone gets better. It surprises me that the president of the Progress Party earlier today criticised the Prime Minister for talking little about his own policy and too much about the Progress Party, because it is actually the speech of the throne that is being debated today, and I think there was a good deal of working party policy and government policy in the throne speech that the King held. But the Progress Party is going to continue with its proposals," says the Progress Party, and that is something we have experienced in recent years. I think there is reason to ask why it is so that the Progress Party can make proposals on a proposal without there being budgetary coverage for it. There is reason to question someone who will have a totally different policy than the one who has actually created the welfare society and the well-being we have. We have a government that, historically, has followed up the National Transport Plan. Right representatives here are saying it's going to be a smaller road. No, seriously, it doesn't. Weighing is not something that shrinks after one has adopted a budget, so it's actually so that for every year, faster than ever, more roads are built, and we get a better infrastructure in Norway. We've had a historic commitment to the local economy, which is a welfare issue, and local politicians obviously want more money. But it's not like when you spend $20 billion more a year, it's going to be less municipal policy -- it's actually going to be more. What may have surprised me most recently in relation to what I was doing in the last period, when I was on the Energy and Environment Committee, is the fight for a fall-back, where the government parties suggested that there should be a fall-back on all power plants after 75 years. But what has not emerged in the debate, as in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, was something that we did all the time in the last period, was the proposal of the Progress Party to have a homefall on everything, and then to sell it out to the highest bidder. Is there anyone who has heard of that proposal by the Progress Party in the recent debate? Of course not. Because they know that the Labour Party is in charge of the policy that people want, and that's why I'm very proud to be a member of that party. We will continue to build the welfare. That's why we want to spend NOK 1 billion more on day-to-day pay for the unemployed in 2008 than the Progress Party. We're going to spend $1 billion more on health care. This year we will spend half a billion more on child protection than the Advance Party. And we want employees to have the right to deduct some of their union quota when it's the way employers can subtract everything. It's our policy, and I'm proud to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3222	Although Kommune-Norge can be very happy that there are red-green money that has provided more opportunities to develop the welfare of municipalities, it must also be said that there are some grey clouds in the municipality sky. Given that I now do not know the financial framework the municipalities will get in the state budget for 2009, I still read, among other things. in the localities of Oppland, that several municipalities are struggling with budgets. If someone now has to cut in both school and care services, this is a concern. For we need to secure the welfare and public service production in the future, we need to have more of both red-green shopping spots and red-green money. We also need to look at how public service production can be secured over the next five to ten years. In the Nordic region, Denmark and Sweden have implemented a municipal reform, i.e. a reform of community mergers. Finland has also now started such a process. Iceland hasn't done it so far. I believe that we in Stortinget must also dry up to tackle this too many sensitive political issues. In the Nordic region, there are 1313 municipalities. Norway tops the list of 430 municipalities, many of which are very small. Following their reform, Denmark has 99 municipalities, Sweden 290 and Finland 415, but they have, as I said, started a reform work to reduce the number of municipalities, i.e. more efficient municipalities. Now I am of those who believe that there is also a lot to pick up on a more efficient state, and that the municipalities may have taken out their potential in efficiency. However, for all the countries that have implemented municipal reforms, the political motive has been that municipalities should have more tasks, more capacity and sustainability to perform the tasks, and thus also better services for their citizens, and not least that larger municipalities can better ensure the legal security of people. In order to ensure the well-being of the future, I think we need to make a municipal reform in Norway. The voluntary sector is an important provider of services. The voluntary sector is a desirable and necessary part of welfare production in Norway. It is important to further develop the interaction between the public and voluntary sectors in order to improve the provision of services to the population. It is therefore important in the follow-up to the voluntary sector to define a concrete policy in this area, where voluntary sector in the health and care sector can be seen as an important partner in order to solve welfare tasks. The voluntary sector in the healthcare sector is a major and professional part of the voluntary sector. Only in this sector represent the voluntary sector now more than 450,000 members, and the number of trustees is well over 50 000 - people with a high and important competence. In the future, it is important to distinguish between services provided by the private sector and services provided by the voluntary sector. The private sector will always have a profit motive as a target for its activities, while the voluntary sector has ideal motives for its activities. The voluntary sector therefore needs to enter public system thinking in the future. With all the competence of the voluntary sector in prevention and rehabilitation, there needs to be a better interaction between the state, the state and the municipality. Good rehabilitation is a good investment that gives great returns - in fact, in these times better than having money on book. With good rehabilitation, it gets much better for the individual, and it gets better for the individual, and it gets so much better for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3235	During the post-election debate in 2005, the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, said that she would use her time towards the next elections to build a broad bourgeois alternative. It's been an interesting construction process to witness to. In no important area has the Progress Party shown the willingness to build a single bridge foundation. The concept of ‘opposition debate’ was also given a new content in last year’s debate. Then Siv Jensen took a strong settlement with the Left and dismissed the party as part of a civil option after 2009. Therefore, this construction process today is more reminiscent of a fire site than of a construction site. Quite rightly, it seems that the Progress Party is cancelling the butcher for a lower petrol charge. In return, Vice President Per Sandberg was out in the newspaper this summer and arranged for more pro-military roads. In the area that is the most important of all, economic policy, there has also been no sign of any audacity on the part of the Progress Party. It will be interesting to see whether the party will respect at least its own draft budget in addition to the coming winter, or whether there will be enough record in the proposals of the Progress Party representing billions of expenditure in line. The financial crisis the world is in the midst of is a decline in liberalist policy. It shows the need for more and better political governance, not more market thinking. It shows the need for stronger international cooperation setting frameworks and standards for the financial industry. The Progress Party has called for the Government's response in today's debate. That's what they got. The most important thing is to keep order in the economy. There is no «flash», as Siv Jensen described it this morning. It is one of the most classic exercises in politics, namely the ability to prioritize, the ability to say no to something in order to say yes to something more important. It's not a floss, but it's perhaps a strange exercise for the Progress Party. In this debate, the leader of the Progress Party has declared the party programme dead in terms of financial market policy. Now today's regulations are the party's policies. That's good. But an unavoidable question is this: What other parts of the Progress Party programme are no longer applicable? I think that at least the voters are interested in getting to know. The political debate in the last few months has been strange. Instead of a debate on different policy choices, we have had a debate on how much the government has not yet taken to implement the work programme so far during this period. The criticism from the opposition parties is not that the policy of the government is wrong, but that the government has not done even more of what it should do, even faster. The 2005 elections became a choice of value. Should we continue on the right course of the Bondevik government led society into, with a weakened community and weakening our common welfare services, or should we choose a new course, a course for a stronger community and stronger welfare services, for more justice and greater opportunities for all? People chose the last one. The government has followed up on that. Then it's pretty funny to hear that the Progress Party and the Right's main appeal point towards the Government is that it hasn't led us even faster away from the policy these parties led in the last period, and on which they went to the elections to get on with it. What are these parties going to go to elections next year? More Soria Moria policy? No, this will allow the voters to see transparency. The criticism of the Government shall be a fiche for its own policy, for a policy which was rejected by a majority in 2005. Because hidden in the claims of lifting breakage, the hoof sticks forward. Right-wing social policy spokesman, Martin Engeset, has this summer described the Spring AFP agreement as a waste of billions to sign the LO. He designates the AFP agreement that was concluded as another than the Right-wing support in the pension agreement. It can only mean that the Right is open to weaken or remove the AFP, if they get the chance together with the Advance Party, which is contrary to the whole arrangement. There's only one example of what's at stake about the right parties again gets the opportunity in the government offices. The rights of workers will then also be re-attacked, as they were before 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3265	In this debate there are several Right-wing Representatives who have criticised the Government for the lack of commitment on the road and track. That it can come from the Right is completely incomprehensible. The silk cords that Erna Solberg and her people cut over in their period, are now paid with red-green money. The projects launched under Bondevik II lacked funding. An important example of this is the railway project between Lysaker and Sandvika. This had been stopped without a red-green victory. The right is seriously struggling with its credibility in the matter of transportation, and the right has claimed during today's debate that it was built more way under the Bondevik government than it is now. It makes no sense to discuss the number of kilometres of road being built in the different size periods. Just as it takes some time from an in love couple jumping in the hill until a child arrives, it also takes a little time from the money to the end of the road. The parenthood is now determined finally by who is lying together, and not by who is cutting the umbilical cord. The calculator part Right is master at twisting statistics. The fact that there is a process of enlargement does not always mean that there are the representatives who are sitting there, who are going to have all the honor. Promising e.g. took it ten years to build. On the right, voters now want to believe that only OPS is being said, roads may be rolled out into the country. This, of course, is not the case. If you want a way and a path, you have to pay for it. The Stoltenberg government now spends SEK 2.2 billion more each year than the Right raised in 2005. We have kept what we promised in 2005, and now the Prime Minister has also announced a further bet in the next NTP period. And we have credibility. We're also going to make a settlement with the piecewise and shared policy that's marked traffic in Norway, and we're going to warn that we're going to spend tens of billions more on transportation over the next ten years. We did not build an opera scene without knowing that there was also roof and walls. Now we also have to build the road and the path completely. We're going to do this because we're going to build smarter, we're going to spend more money, and we're going to commit beyond the individual budget years. It is extra nice to be able to stand here now after being in the lawn during the break and listen to the Council of State Navarsete. There she could delight rail enthusiasts to see that the budget will reach 50 million tomorrow. kr more for the planning of double tracks Oslo-Ski. On this route you run today with 110 pst. capacity utilisation, and it goes without saying that it will not be much until there are delays and people from Holmlia, Ski and elsewhere along that line have problems getting to work and picking up kids in the kindergarten. Businesses also get trouble with goods. Today, it is also not possible to get more goods onto the track there, and our goals of more goods from road to track will be difficult to achieve on this route. So that's why the very important signal came a few hours ago. More freight and passenger transport on rail are important not just to facilitate everyday life and to increase freight transport. It is also important for climate and road safety. Each passenger car in Norway emits 2,5 tonnes of CO2 per year. To and from Oslo, 120000 passengers are transported by train every day. Then it goes without saying that if all of these were to drive a car, there would have been even greater climate emissions from the transport sector. Therefore, further efforts in this area are also incredibly important in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the climate. This government has had a historic commitment to transportation. We are the first government that has fulfilled its national transport plan, and we will continue to invest in transport, because we have a government that understands that good infrastructure is a prerequisite for value creation across the country. Policy is about choosing and prioritizing. The working party prioritises more money in common and more money for infrastructure and transport. Right priority in its period of string cutting and money to those who have the most from before. It became smaller road and smaller community by. People in Norway want more community, they want more roads, and they want more infrastructure. It's the Working Party and the Red-Greens that are going to deliver even in the next big time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3287	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3291	The government has neglected the opportunity to equip Norwegian industry for weaker times. Nor did the Prime Minister’s speech signal what the Government will do to prevent the economic crisis from becoming greater than is necessary for business and people most. I come from a state where many small and medium-sized enterprises are the main artery of society. In fact, many of our businesses are at the height of growth, but they are vulnerable and highly competitive. The number of bankruptcies has increased by 30 pst. to date this year. Unemployment shows a slight increase in September, for the first time since July 2005. The 2008 NHO competitiveness survey shows that since 2005, the government’s policy has weakened Norway’s competitiveness in relation to our main trading partners. When the code of action was adopted in 2001, the Stoltenberg I government and the Storting stressed the need for money to be used to increase the growth capacity of the economy through investment in knowledge and research, transport and taxation. With today’s government, Norway is making it worse in these areas. Analyses from the NHO show that the Government has used 10 pst., while the Right in Government has used about 90 pst. of the increased space for action of the policies defined by the Storting as a growth promoter. Government right contributed to increased growth and high activity in the labour market. The red-greens came to the table in 2005 and have since become entangled in increased oil and tax revenues. In prosperity, the government forgot to invest for the future. After the sweet itch comes the sour wean. The business association has carried out a survey of small businesses showing that the belief in the future is now at a historical level. Never before has the index shown anything near the pessimism that is now in the small businesses around the country. If the Right had continued in government, our focus on the rule of action, on creating wealth, would have been continued in line with the Storting's decision on increased investment in transport, research and education and growth-creating tax incentives. To the right, what happens to the economy for people most and for business is very serious. Right knows what it takes when one takes over a country in the outboard. We proved that when we took over the management after Stoltenberg in 2001. We conducted a responsible policy, we used no more than the economy could bear, we invested all the country could afford on growing tax havens, school and transportation. State Council Navarsete boasts that today's government spends $2.2 billion more on transportation than Bondevik II. Yes, she can thank, among other things. Right for that. In the government, we reorganized the state road system and established Mesta, to turn the money from operation to investment. The result was between 800 and 900 million. kr for increased annual turnover. The calculation is simple: three years times 900 million. is about 2.7 billion and is a gift package for today's government. The right has a policy that provides more and better services for the money, and the speech of the numbers is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3317	The challenges and opportunities described in the census have been carefully debated here today. And more than ever, the dividing lines between red and blue are clear. The financial crisis has been the focus of the debate. I record that the Progress Party is once again jumping from its own policy. The political wind has turned, and once again the coat of the Progress Party is the most obvious indicator of it. A whole world is equiping itself to face the financial crisis, and the medicine that is prescribed is stronger political governance over the money and financial markets. The events of the past weeks have taught us that for individuals to be assured, the community must take responsibility. Market forces have profited as goals, not social responsibility. The medicine of the Party is to be read in their own selection programme: ‘The Party considers that the money and credit markets should be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention.’ The proposal for the next parliamentary term reads: «Regulation by the authorities should in principle be superfluous in a free economy.» More than ever, the Norwegian Community solutions have been challenged. The size has recently addressed the right of repatriation, where public ownership of hydropower resources was at the centre of attention. At the latest today, Ketil Solvik-Olsen of the Progress Party attempted to misjudge the position of the lot. He presents it as if both the left-hand side and the right-hand side really want to secure public ownership, but they have different ways of achieving that goal. There is a sharp contrast to the game selection program where you read: ‘The most secure guarantee that natural resources are properly managed is private ownership.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers considers that today’s system of withdrawal must be repealed.’ On the other hand, in the debate on the fall-back in the Lamentations, the right-hand side showed its true face and strongly argued against public ownership. The Norwegian welfare model of safe Community solutions has repeatedly identified Norway as the world’s best country to live in. It is this model that ensures individual security in everyday life, and it is currently heavily threatened by the right-hand side in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3355	Last year, too, the census started with the statement "Norway is the society of opportunity". No one in this room disagrees with this. On the other hand, there is enough disagreement about how the government itself has managed its options and how that has turned out for most people. Last year the government said: «The government will strengthen, renew and further develop the community.» This year it says: ‘The Government’s objective is a new course for Norway.’ It is unclear, in the view of the Progress Party, what the course is. But it is clear that the rate to date also includes 15 interest increases for most people and for Kommune-Norway. In many important areas, the year that has gone by the government Stoltenberg's policy has not given strengthened, renewed and further developed solutions in important areas for most people. On the contrary. Most people don't want to go to Soria Moria either. But the many people who have different goals and want a different course than the Government itself is now looking for, unfortunately have to wait until 14 September 2009 and use its option then. The Trontale makes clear and visible the Government's ambition that small Norway should become a tone-indicating international actor. Section 2 of the Common Era is preceded by: ‘Norway shall be a peace nation and an environmental nation.’ Is this the new course? Does the Government believe that the most important thing is to be the best on the way? In this and in many other ways, the government of Stoltenberg makes it clear that its own population is being put in second place. It has not been long since the country’s prime minister himself bathed in the Amazon and then ‘bathed’ the recipient country of Brazil in Norwegian billions. For most people, it's unclear whether there's money from a shrinked oil fund or whether there's money from the annual budget framework that the Government is distributing abroad. But it is reasonably clear to most people that in any case Norwegian money - the Norwegian people's money - is distributed abroad by the country's Prime Minister, the country's Minister of Assistance and the country's Minister of Foreign Affairs. Last year, the Government of the Throne said: ‘The increased effort on a modern road infrastructure throughout the country will continue. The government will strengthen environmentally friendly transport and modernise the rail system in order to make it more competitive as a means of transport.» Most people have recorded that it has become even more visible that the Norwegian road network has become even worse this year. The number of fatal accidents is increasing sharply. It is difficult to explain that there is no connection with poor quality on the road network. The census does not signal any new tools that can give rise to road and runways in 2009. Proposal No. of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 3 - State-owned companies receiving government loans for predictable and long-term investment in infrastructure - show the main tool needed. The Progress Party encourages the Government to be involved and to use a new tool to bring about the necessary leverage for trade from 2009 onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3391	Last week the positive budgetary leaks have come close as hail. The Minister of Justice is among the state councils that have been spreading happy messages. But all the medals have a backside, and the moment of truth is when the state budget tomorrow is unpacked. Then first we can judge the whole and whether the effort is going to last. The mantra of the red-green government has been that the big money will be spent on the big problems. How, then, is it possible that the police - one of the central tasks of the state - are experiencing the most serious resource crisis in a very long time? I support the chair of the Judicial Committee on one point: Security is a fundamental asset of well-being. But to the Bjørnface I have the following message: It is good and great that the student admission is increased, as the crew project puts it, and it must be obvious that newly trained police officers are guaranteed jobs, but this is not enough. If the police were to do their job, it would require bets in addition to this. It is urgent to repair unsustainable operating budgets in Police-Norway. The cloue now is to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. In this period, a number of proposals have been put forward to strengthen police operation, offensive action on more civilians and active senior policy. The problem is that the government parties have voted against each time, despite the fact that the Minister of Justice's own staff project has concluded that precisely such measures are absolutely necessary to achieve a more effective police force in Norway. The chairman of the Judicial Committee clapped in his speech to today's chairman of the jury in Dagbladet. She should know better. Because unlike Dagbladet, the Bjørnface is well aware of the major crew problems in the police. The problem is nationwide. Also in her own hometown, Tromsø, the police chief has called an alarm, as in Oslo parts of the day and weekends are critically poorly manned. And outside the cities, the time of the call increases. The red-green relationship to the facts has now become so strenuous that the Right is accused of black paint. Although the media across the country is full of predictions of police abstinence, the descriptions are being questioned. In Hammerfest the fire department recently had to come to the police rescue, and in a chronicle in today's VG, a police officer in the West describes his everyday life, without this appearing to impress the Government. Police empty spaces are a threat to people's security and quality of life. The government now has one last chance in the 2009 budget to prove that the police have become a permanent balancing post. A coherent criminal policy, said the head of the Justice Committee. But you can ask, what's the performance of breaking the paycheck when the police at the same time are being held down without the possibility of persecuting much of the everyday crime that affects people the most. Of course there will be fewer judges and prison days. Right-wing fears the long-term consequences of a police force on the defensive, where prevention efforts come in the final row.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3408	In 2003, SV went to the elections with a clear project, namely to strengthen the community. That is also the project of this government. We are proud to have fulfilled our promises. We were able to reject the Working Environment Act adopted by the Right and the Advance Party. We thereby strengthened the rights of workers, who were clearly weakened by the Right and the Advance Party. We have later driven a clear fight against social dumping, today's slavery. The government’s policy has contributed to the employment of more than 230,000 people over the last three years. The Bondevik II government was able to hold only 10,000 in its entire period. Unemployment is reduced by 40,000 people. We have received 12,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly, and we have received almost full child care coverage. Only right-hand controlled municipalities do their part of the job, we've got a miracle. In 1972, 2 pst went. by Norwegian children in kindergarten, today it is almost 95 pst. Kindergarten prices are reduced, and we're very concerned about the quality. We have reversed Højre's campaign to get more private schools in the country at the expense of the primary school. We have done teaching materials in high school for free. The list is long, but that doesn't mean we're satisfied. No, we have a wide range of unsolved tasks in our society and in our world: combating poverty in our society and in the world, climate challenges both at home and out and combating discrimination against minorities are some of the priority tasks of the SV and the Government. The government will present a budget tomorrow that will be a budget to strengthen the community further. So far around us. I now want to get into the Progress Party in my last 56 seconds. We in SV take seriously the Progress Party's programme. We believe it is indeed time for the Progress Party itself to start taking its own programme seriously. We experience that the Progress Party is in the process of depreciating its own batch program bit by bit. They do not tell the voters what is in their programme, and if they still believe that their programme is an important management document, they must do so. Today, the Siv Jensen Party's programme formulations on fiscal policy have been put to death by the President of the United Kingdom. I hope the voters of the Advance Party have registered this. Let me do another example. The programme for the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The maximum annual reception by Norway shall be 1000 people from outside the Western cultural circle. This includes refugees, asylum seekers and those who are granted a residence on humanitarian grounds or on the basis of family reunification.’;» This statement is not even repeated by Per-Willy Amundsen. Is it so that this is dead, or is it so that they won't tell the Norwegian people what's in their program?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3424	Norway is a good country to live in, but of course we still have things to go after. We have a solid economy, unemployment is record low, we have great value creation, and business is going very well. We almost didn't experience the husband for economics. In the 2005 election campaign, citizens warned the Norwegian people of the red danger into the government offices. It's just fine. The Prime Minister said this morning that we are well equipped to face the financial crisis. We're in order in the economy, and we're in order in our own house. It's an important signal to the Norwegian people. It's also important to have some ice in your stomach. Things will always go in wave valleys. There is nothing growing into heaven. It is clear that people are becoming alarmed, and we must take this seriously. It has also been speculated in what a government dominated by the Progress Party along with the Right will mean for most people. I'll say a little bit about what I think the picture will be if such a situation occurs, among other things. for the trade-organised. The trade unions will notice major changes with a possible Advance Party-Right-Registration, because these parties have a common desire to weaken the political and social functions of the trade union movement. Central settlement will be weakened in favour of individual wage negotiations, and people's power over their own work situation will also be weakened if the Progress Party gets what they want in such a government. There will be a lower level of protection against dismissal and increased access to temporary employment. We remember the Bondevik II government - and here I can mention one key word: the Working Environment Act. We changed it at record speed, to a great deal of joy for the trade unions. Karen's days are going to be evaluated, I think. The working party believes it is important to have a well-organised and good working life and a good dialogue. The working party and the red-green make it clear that we will continue to ring around the rights of the trade unions. Without a strong commitment from the entire trade union movement, as we had in 2005, right-wing forces can even stronger than they did last turn on the trade union movement - and then I think, among other things. on, as I have said before, a Progress Party-Right-Registration. Then they can get into the government offices and tear down a lot of what was built up, among other things. the professional rights and a number of other things that the trade movement is very concerned about. And then the whole trade movement can lie with your broken back. I think that will be the goal of that government. Margaret Thatcher did it in England. Why wouldn't they do this in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3437	In these days, a new people's reaction while sailing in the mountain region -- this time at Bjorli in Lesja Municipality. The conflict is rooted in County opposition to Lesja Municipality's regulatory plan, which opens up further cabin construction around the Bjorli Centre. Unfortunately, people's reactions and local feelings of deprivation are not new in terms of protection. In recent years, we have had similar actions and problems with Snøheimveien, Trillemarka, Ormtjernkampen, a new protection plan for Rondane National Park - and this time in connection with the municipal regulation plan at Bjorli. It should not be part of the Storting's agenda to debate these individual issues. However, when we have to do so, it is because today's system does not work in a reliable way and has the power to provide adequate protection in the local environments affected. The Bjorli case contains all the characteristics that we find in this kind of thing. The local community meets heavy bureaucratic structures that appear to be as much as a party to the decision-making process. The competence of these bureaucracies is rather one-sidedly complex - for example, business skills appear virtually non-existent. Is it then to expect business interests to be faithfully safeguarded? There is consistently little popular influence over the decisions. Would it not be possible, for example, to imagine that the large national park management plans should be within the Storting? These are issues of great importance for large regions, perhaps several municipalities, where 60-70 pst. are covered by the municipalities. Ordinary democratic thinking should imply a popular influence, at least on some levels. Before the 2001 election, all parties promised a stronger local government. We have seen this little more when it comes to real transfer of decision-making from central bureaucracies. Immediateness in the processes is also a problem. The Bjorli case has now been in progress for a few years, and the result is, of course, that the moment in the development of Bjorli as a tourist destination is significantly weakened. Not least in the context of the economic crisis that we are now seeing is under way. We need another basic approach to protection in our country. In the past, the right has proposed an overall study of the importance of protection interventions for municipalities. Perhaps we should also have had a big message about the mountain regions' challenges. It's an area of municipalities, from West Agder in the south to South Trundelag in the north, which have quite similar common challenges. These we should take care of. Examples of what we're looking at now at Bjorli, we should be careful, and we shouldn't have a system that makes us have to discuss that kind of thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3456	It's a very special feeling to look at this debate from a red-green point of view. In one post, opposition politicians tell of red-green chaos, before they go into the same post because they fundamentally disagree with the policies of other civil parties. And that's what I think is special, because it's actually that at the last big shot, the red-green government was a real alternative in good time before the election. We could point towards a common goal, and we could tell the voters what course to take. The only thing that civil option has done so far is to measure out a collision course. I think people see that the red-green government has followed up what we were told to do three years ago. I remember how proud I was when the red-green government stopped the privatisation of the school that was started under the previous, bourgeois, government. I remember how much praise came to me from my workmates when the red-greens stopped the last government attack on the workers, as it would frustrate the work environment law. I remember eating soft cake to celebrate the red-green law that schooling in Norway would be free. And not least, I'm proud that it was the red-green government that started working on the gender-neutral marriage law, which finally gave homofiles the same rights as heterofiles. All these are things that make me get over being part of the red-green collaboration. These are also matters that confirm that we represent a completely different course from what the bourgeois parties are doing, and are in conflict with what many have said here before me today. There are lots of people who think it is wrong to treat homophiles in the same way as others in society. There are lots of people who believe that workers' rights should be weakened for the benefit of employers. And there are parties that believe that the release of private schools is medicine when not everything works perfectly in public school. The question is what will become the current policy of the citizen if they win the election. Because there is one thing this debate has shown, it is that they have opinions that crack in every direction, most of it. The only thing they seem to agree on is that today's government has to go away. And that, in my opinion, is a somewhat thin basis of governance. The red-green government will hold a steady course, even after the election. As the Prime Minister said in his speech, this government is acting jointly. We do not agree that Community solutions stand in the way of individuality, on the contrary. We believe that good social solutions, provided by the community, are the best way to ensure freedom for individuals. I think most people agree with us on that. That's why I'm proud of the red-green government, and that's why I'm looking forward to the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3471	Climate and environmental challenges have been central and high pressure in Norwegian policy in the last year. That's why I would have expected to hear more about it in the throne, and about how the government will meet the climate turmoil. It is becoming increasingly clear that man-made climate change is accelerating, and that the consequences can be more serious if we do not act quickly enough. As today's politicians, it's our duty to take this seriously for the sake of our descendants, our children and grandchildren. The left is pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget reached an agreement on Norwegian climate policy. We have high expectations for the Government in this follow-up and for the pressure to stay up on these important issues. The climate goals we have set ourselves require determined and rapid action in far more areas than we have now seen. We need a new course in environmental and climate policy that is forward-looking. The North is one of the most visible areas in the world where climate change is most visible, where change is fastest, and where the consequences can be greatest if emissions continue to increase at the rate at which we are witnessing. The government has launched a north-eastern strategy. This is mainly about resource and security issues and little about how to meet climate change challenges in the north. Climate change can have an impact on the nutritional basis of e.g.: The reindeer industry, for farms, for animals and plants living conditions - and therefore also for our living conditions in the north. As a representative of our northernmost country, I would like to highlight the importance of a knowledge-based and conscious approach to these issues. The government should take this on board and develop a strategy for climate adaptation in the north. Not only is Finnmark an arena for climate change. We are also an arena for unnecessary and harmful emissions. We have seen this example at the Snow White plant in Melkoya, where there have been major operating problems, with large climate emissions and large local emissions, which has caused concern to the local population. We can't keep it that way. The left has expectations that the Government is now following the technical advice provided by the SFT, and is taking initiatives towards StatoilHydro to develop an action plan to clean up the Snow White plant. This will be an important and necessary contribution to achieving the climate objectives and will contribute to the setting of a proper environmental standard in the further development of the northern regions. Finally, I would like to highlight another and major environmental challenge that we are facing, and it is the many shipwrecks that we have along the Norwegian coast. Now I sincerely hope that we can take a force in relation to having them removed, and that the Government, as the Minister of Fisheries and Coast promised earlier this fall, will as soon as possible remove the Russian "Murmansk", which has been lying in the spring just outside the living windows of the people of South Africa for 14 years. Therefore, in particular in Sørøya, it is expected that tomorrow there will be money on the state budget to remove this wreck. The leak that has come today, I don't think it's true until I see it black on white tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3488	At the 2005 elections, the Labour Party said clearly: More well-being and a stronger community! We'll do it. We said we wanted to take up the fight against poverty at home and out - we do. But we're not on target. A lot is done. A lot of people aren't doing well enough. Therefore, we must continue to fight for more well-being and more community. We need to ensure that there is a good safety net for those who fall outside, and continue to rust up and secure the Norwegian model, as the Prime Minister spoke so well in his speech earlier today. I want to give a couple of concrete examples. The municipalities have got it more liberal. It is shown that there are several hands in care, both for the elderly and for the younger users. We'll deliver. Many municipalities lack health care facilities, but now the 2008 budget provides for a commitment of 1 000 new places. The grant schemes we make work. The census mentions care, and there are some measures that do not cost as much as we have put in place, measures that make everyday life more pleasant, and that make you have something to live for, for example. The cultural walking stick. - A little money, but there's a lot of it. Together with government lubricating money and a great effort by non-governmental organisations, we get diversity again. Well-being is an important health factor. As a further development of the cultural school system, this contributes to a better everyday life for the individual. The same responses are now being launched within psychiatry. KIP, a culture of psychiatry, is an action such as: Larvik Municipality has introduced, where its purpose is to enjoy and to provide offers that are enjoyable. With that we see that we're on the right track. - Very good health here, which doesn't get the big headlines. In the case of hospitals, there is a lot of money, but there are also challenges here. It's treated more than ever, there's more employees than ever, and we live longer than ever-- fortunately. When we're not satisfied, and there's a call for more money, one of our answers is that now we have to find other solutions. State Council Hanssen's interaction reform is a possible solution and a good solution, where we look at what can be done to make patients feel better and get a more comprehensive offer. The Community shall make better use of the resources. Before we get this interaction reform in place, I don't think we're getting into business goals. Before we find the good interaction solutions, the call for money will be a recurring problem. We want to solve it by addressing the problems. The progress party will easily just solve it by giving more money. We don't think that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3506	Red-green speakers today have spent a lot of time describing how the financial crisis has come from a sub-regulated United States and now is the final proof that a liberal market economy is not working. At the same time, we hear that Norway is well-equipped and has a solid economy and freedom of action in relation to the crisis. According to the red-greens, the reason is that we have a strong public sector, that the Norwegian model works well, and that the government cultivates the community - always. There is a black paint of the market economy and a estimation of the Norwegian credit and financial market systems, almost as if all the regulations should have been in place since the autumn of 2005, but it is they who respectfully fail to notify. I had today expected a debate that, in a time of crisis, referred to plans from the government parties about what was being undertaken to contribute positively to Norwegian business, to Norwegian value creation and to the workplaces, in order to get a soft landing after the decline that is now coming. I had expected that the level of interest rates and the contribution they would make to budgetary policy would be a topic. If that's what the Prime Minister said this morning, almost as an outside commentator, we've seen the pressure on interest rates, and we'll notice it. Yes, Prime Minister, but why not do something about it? Both last year's budget, the agricultural balance in our budget and the revised budget, contributed to excessive expansion in budgetary policy and did not provide the basis for a reduction in interest rates. This situation cannot be resolved by Community rhetoric. It can only be solved with concrete measures, and we have heard very little about that today. Will it, for example? be such that increased taxes on business and ordinary workers should continue? Do you want to influence interest rates through budgetary policy? Would you like to invest more in line with the original idea of the use of oil money via the rule of action? I don't think Norwegian economy goes into any soft landing, no matter how many times the red-greens from this pulpit try to monopolize the magic word 'community'. It is the belief in a continued well-regulated market economy and good framework conditions for business, for competition, for saving, for stimulating tax relief and a policy of lower interest rates that can get us out of the wave valley, not the rhetorical exercises of community. It is also true that as the country may be in the worst crisis of 100 years, very much of the debate time from the red-green parties in this room is used to discuss who is the most unsuitable of the opposition parties in this room. But the question of what the current government wants to do for the country's business and value creation to land as softly as possible and provide a continuing basis for our well-being is unfortunately completely unanswered after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3515	Many now worry about what the financial crisis will mean. Now, when we're likely to experience noticeably tighter times, it's always those with the lowest pay and the worst economy that will notice it first. Thanks to strong employee organisations, we have had a much better distribution of income than many other countries. There is a great quality in Norwegian society that goods should be shared evenly, so that everyone should be included. But this doesn't happen by itself. The red-green government has had a policy where we've all played with the social partners to create a more inclusive working life. What is the alternative to government policy? There is little good news for those who have lower wages in the Progress Party's programme and policies adopted in the past. By removing the deduction from the union quota, the Progress Party will reduce the influence of employee organisations and the ability to protect employees. As the citizens have done in Sweden, this will mean that many of those who are struggling to get the everyday economy to go together will have to resign from their union - not because they want it, but because they cannot afford it. And often these are the ones that need the most protection a trade union can provide. In particular, this could affect those who work in the private service sector. Furthermore, negotiations on wages will be conducted as locally as possible instead of central wage negotiations, which are the general rule today. Who is going to fight for the low-paid and equal pay? What we see from other countries that have weakened trade unions and local wage negotiations is that those with the lowest wage are getting less, and those with an already high wage run out of farms with more. By renewing the Working Environment Act, many more temporary jobs are to be opened up. With a pen stroke, the housing dream can be gone too many. Furthermore, it's going to be easier to fire people, and the right to overtime payment is going to go away. This is not a policy for most people. Even worse for those who stay standing without a job. We remember well what happened in the last period - cut off the daily allowance and a society that invested less in those who fell outside. So when the party is over on the stock exchange, the bonuses and the dividends are collected, the Progress Party - the so-called party for most people - has the prescription for who is going to pay the bill. It's a less fair working life for ordinary people, with greater pay differences and less security for a job to go to. Then it is a poor comfort to have reduced alcohol charges included in the purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3526	1975 was the United Nations International Year of Women. At that time there were three requirements that marked the 8th March marking. It was the right to self-determined abortion, it was the right to babysitting, and it was equal pay for equal work. The right to abortion came into place in 1978, and the right to a nursery place will be placed under this government. When it comes to the right to equal pay, we haven't gotten into business yet. The government received the Equal pay Commission report in February. However, there is a large pay gap between men and women in Norway. Women's pay is only 85 pst. by men, and the labour market is more gender-divided than in comparable countries. So this government set up an equal pay commission, just to put the spotlight on why these differences are maintained, and with suggestions on how we can counter the inequalities in wages. The Commission presented its report in spring and presented a number of good analyses and proposals for action to combat pay differentials. The consultation period has now expired. Now the work on the report is about to begin. Historically, it has been obvious that women have been cheaper workers than men, whether they work in industry, as domestic servants, or as servants in modern occupations. The reason for this is that women were primarily to be mothers and caregivers. It was the women themselves, among others. through the 16-year strike in 1889, which contributed to the inclusion on the agenda of the demand for equal pay between women and men. Today, 120 years after the union strike, the pay gap between women and men is per year. hour on about 15 pst. According to a Eurofound survey, earnings statistics from European countries have been compared and the differences in wages and salaries between men and women have been identified. According to these statistics, Slovenia is enthroned at the top of the list. At the very bottom of the 16th place, we find Norway. We in SV believe that the Equal Pay Commission should be followed up with a new equal pay and equality offensive. Women make up about 70 pst. by public sector employees, and the level of wages and salaries here is generally lower than in the private sector. Women in both the public and private sectors also have the lowest wages in general. I believe that the Equal pay Commission must be followed up with equal pay pots, as proposed by the Commission, but it is also important that women's salaries are now valued, by equalising women's turn with men's shift schemes, and that the right to full time becomes real. There is a breach of the Equality Act that there is no equal treatment between the turns and shiftwork. We have to get a fairer distribution of power and resources in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3541	The debate of the throne should really make the government's results visible and set the course for how we should achieve new goals. A throne speech should give us views. It's going to give us new thoughts, it's going to inspire, and it's going to make expectations. It shall also show that the current government has been thinking for more than one financial year in the future. But then I look at previous years' debates and see that it's not all the world's new under the sun. There's a lot of talk and little action. Within the school system, the government is stealing an entire generation of children and young people's opportunities for a day-to-day school that they are actually entitled to. It does not help the children who are in school today, that there are large-scale messages and changes, when they are largely uncommitted, and immediate action has become a taboo word. The quality of the school has to be raised, says the Government - over and over again. We're all repeating that since we got the first international and national test results published. But is something happening? We have seen the recent appearance of the Minister of Knowledge as extraordinary gentleness, and the media has already identified him as the great budget winner. If that's the case, we'll see this tomorrow. But then I really hope that he has far more to point to than the reintroduction of the 2002 interest compensation scheme. The government's playoff is the biggest bluff I've heard in a long time--a sharp 62 million. kr in compensation for interest on new loans that local authorities charge to school buildings, compensation only for rich municipalities can avail themselves of, for payments to be made. Had it been a direct grant to earmarked school buildings, at least I should have taken off my hat, I would have had one. If there is something that is perceived as difficult in the UK, there is a lack of long-term mobility and the business environment, not least in terms of research. If an instrument has been shown to work, why should it be removed? Several of the representatives today have referred to criticisms and various opinions by Thor Egil Breadland regarding the tax FUNN. You're thinking, and I think the Minister of Research might have a rough day in his party. The party of progress misses the fact that the government is much more looking ahead in time. We in the Progress Party could wish for the future prospects, so-called foresight scenarios, to be put into practice much more fully when the Government forms its proposals and communications. We know that Finland has succeeded in a number of areas. In particular, they have set up their own parliamentary committee, which has a close dialogue with the government on future prospects and how new problems can be solved. I hope that the government tomorrow will show that they have views for the country, that they are using foresight thinking in their proposals, that they are betting on knowledge, rates of research, innovation, long-termity and not just having eyes for the next ten months. But with respect to report: I think I'm going to be sabla disappointed!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3558	The President would point out that 'bluff' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3561	In the throne, it was said: ‘A well-functioning transport system is an important well-being and essential to ensure a competitive business’.» In the Central Party, we will allocate the transport resources so that people can live throughout the country. A prerequisite for this is that we can move safely and efficiently in order to achieve our daily tasks. Nor will it be business and jobs without transport corridors that work well. There's no contradiction between betting on the road and betting on the railway. The bets are rather dependent on each other. So we have to do both. My county, Akershus, surrounds Oslo, and together these counties form the densest populated area in the country. This necessarily leads to much greater pressure and wear on existing road and public services. In order for the whole country to have an effective transport offer to and from the capital, the transport challenges have to be addressed here. When one third of Norway’s climate emissions come from the transport sector, the greatest benefit will be to get here if we get the most transport from road to rail. I am therefore very pleased with the news that our Minister for Transport has announced today: 50 million is coming. kr for the design of the double-track Oslo-Ski. Locally, we've worked a long time for the double track, and we're very pleased that this case has dealt with so many, across party boundaries. The next decisive step will be to get back the double track in the national transport plan. I hope as many people are engaged in this work. The removal of heavy goods vehicles on high-traffic routes, the creation of multiple crossing points and efficient freight terminals would also give us a significant share of rail freight traffic. The Oslo-Ski line is today the bottleneck of the Eastfold Railway. 80 pst. of land-based freight traffic to and from abroad passes through Eastfold. The railway system expects a double track to take 750 car trains away from the roads every day! A double track between Oslo and Ski will in addition change the daily lives of thousands of commuters standing in crowded buses and trains because the capacity today is blown up on the line. By getting heavy transport and cars off the roads, we will reduce wear and pollution and increase road safety. I hope and believe that the double-track Oslo-Ski will be a central bet in the NTP. In the Central Party, we have a positive expectation that our desire to solve one of the country's biggest transport challenges will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3581	In the throne speech on Thursday there was, among other things. said: «The government will strengthen the conditions for school learning and focus on quality in education.» That is correct, and as part of this work St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, Quality at school, now in the fall. It gives an interesting and broad picture of the situation around our country and points forward by signalling changes. There is clearly a need for a stronger prioritisation of efforts within the comprehensive mandate given by society to initial training. This government defines three basic and clear objectives for the quality of initial training to be raised at all levels of the sector: All those leaving primary school shall master basic skills which enable them to participate in further education and working life. All pupils and apprentices who are able to do so shall complete secondary education with certificates of competence recognised for further studies or in the workplace. All pupils and apprentices shall be included and mastered. It is not difficult to support these objectives and there is reason to stress the joint responsibility of the sector for this. Expectations are high, and they're supposed to be. The expectations of a good school depend primarily on the quality of teaching and the development of the individual classroom. If we are to have an urgent change of attitude and a lift for school and teachers, the school owners - that is, municipalities and county councils - have to get more involved. Fortunately, there are many good examples where municipalities focus on this and where they can refer to high-quality and very good results. But the point is that it has to be incorporated into all municipalities, and many have decided to go a long way. In addition, early efforts are needed for the individual student who needs it. Finally, the main input factor in the school is the teacher. This government has taken it in and is working on it. We know that the teacher is crucial to the quality of school, and there is a lot of exciting new work in terms of teacher training. For example, I can. mention the Vestfold High School, where the level of education is divided according to the class step in which the teacher is to teach. In Djupedal’s time, tailor-made teacher training was started for the youth girls, and now in the autumn, teacher training for the child’s midwives has begun. So it's going to be added to level-shared teacher training with specialization for the different stages. I think this is going to be an important and proper way to go with a view to improving the quality of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3616	Rarely does a debate on the throne clearly have as much ignorance about the financial market and the macroeconomic context as the one we have witnessed here today. Let me say the following: Norway is part of a global market economy. Credit crises in the world's leading economy will affect Norwegian banking, money market interest rates, the credit offer, the stock market and in the long term also export-oriented industrial activities, and therefore Norwegian employment. What we're experiencing right now is actually very serious. The Progress Party is opposed to price and quantity adjustments and crediting to selected producers and groups - hence the formulation of confidence in the market in the draft of our principal programme. In other words, the Progress Party is opposed to the credit policy pursued in Norway from 1945 to early 1980s, and we support the liberalisation of the credit market that took place at that time. This determines the Progress Party in its draft princely programme. This liberalisation, which has also been referred to as ‘the neoliberal shift’, was also supported by the Workers’ Party. The United States does not have an unregulated credit market but, on the contrary, extensive regulation. However, the problem is that the legislation is very fragmented. It is very surprising that members of the Financial Committee of the Storting, who have visited the U.S. Supervisory Authority themselves, stand on this pulpit and claim the opposite. The US has more supervision to control the financial market. This applies, inter alia, to:: Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Housing Finance Agency, Office of Thrift Supervision, Working Group on Financial Markets, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The challenge is that regulation is fragmented and with unclear mandates. Furthermore, on several occasions the US Congress has passed laws that allow banks to lend money to people with low control. It is this representative Sandal today referred to as the ‘deregulation’ - but this is, therefore, political interference in the market. This freedom has allowed American politicians to gain political gain. In the short term, everyone wins - more people get housing loans, the stock exchange increases, the financial industry gets big bonuses, and politicians get re-elected. In the long term, everyone loses because you do not set the price by industry - the bill has to be paid, and it is now paid! At the same time, the American Central Bank has kept the interest rate artificially low, so that the incentive for saving has been absent, has also contributed to the crisis. With this as a hindrance, our own finance minister has gone out and said that the market economy has gone down! This is a statement that is not supported by any other finance ministers in the Western world, but certainly a statement that both Fidel Castro and Hugo Chávez will join. No other country has benefited as much from the market economy as Norway has. Our country is built on trade and business across borders. Market supply and demand have made Norway one of the richest countries in the world. Every year, we charge NOK 300-400 billion from the sale of oil and gas, just using the market mechanisms. In the middle of this, the Minister of Finance says that the market economy has gone down! Talk about double morality, inconsistency and politically motivated history rewriting!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3644	State Council Hanssen has launched the interaction problems in the health sector as if this were a newly discovered problem. The cooperation reform has been announced and a specialist group has been set up. But everything suggests that it's going to happen very little in the coming year. Patients and caregivers are once again hit by a health minister with a lack of action, but he is at least on the right track! He has been convinced that funding needs to be changed, as the Progress Party has called for, and has also made proposals for, on many occasions. This went Carl I. Hagen thoroughly into his post. It is also another important matter that the government has not taken seriously: the large shortage of hospitalization sites in large parts of the country. The municipalities are currently lacking around 19 000 sick homes if the cross-political objective of 25 p.m. is to be followed. coverage rate. And then it doesn't add up to 6,000 new places, which is the number that the government has actually contributed to by 2015. Compared with the sickest elderly, short-term residents and those who are currently in the corridors of the hospital, pending the municipality being able to provide services, there is no alternative. Now there is free labour in the construction industry to take the jobs, so now it should be built! In addition, the competence and medical coverage of hospitals need to be strengthened far more than the Government has provided. Only then can you expect seamless services for the benefit of the patient. Now is the time for a big effort in the care of the elderly. In the languages of the throne, the psychiatry was not mentioned in one word, and this reinforces the impression that the government now sees the escalation as it ended. In fact, it is serious when we can read every week about mental illness that is posted from institutions before it is proper, and it is serious when older mentally ill people no longer receive treatment but are sent to regular hospital stays. Most of the intentions of the escalation plan are not in the vicinity of being met, and in the last ten years the number of institutions has been greatly reduced. This continues despite the fact that every day it is remembered that this has led to a lower level of treatment for the most seriously ill. It suggests that further escalation, and perhaps even closer follow-up by earmarked means, should be considered in order to maintain current supply and to further enhance psychiatry competences. The response to whether the Government has taken seriously that the psychiatry escalation plan is not close to the target, and the answer to whether the Government will provide a rise in the care of the elderly will show itself when the budget is presented tomorrow. Unfortunately, I am not optimistic as long as the Prime Minister believes that the Government has overfilled the elderly effort, and the psychiatry is not mentioned at all – but I hope I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3657	I have lent my ear to the debate today and to the opposition's presentation of what the Government has done in the last three years. At first I was a little annoyed. Then I was given a little bit. Finally, I was laughable. For example, when: Harald Tom Nesvik from the party with the more or less fitting name "The Front Step Party" says that we have three years behind us with red-green chaos, a speculator can speculate on the understanding of reality. It is obvious that Nesvik, his party traps and the rest of the opposition want political change after the 2009 elections. Then I will remember what has been said, that progress always means change, but change does not always mean progress. On politics, Carl Joachim Hambro said so eloquently: it is not enough to say that politics is the art of the possible. Politics should be something more. The policy that is in the pact with the future must be to make tomorrow possible what is impossible today. The Red-Green Government has had the aim of facilitating society and the individual to have the framework conditions that allow for development and that give room for good life. That is why we have invested in local welfare, health and care. That's why we've been working on full child care coverage, and that's why we've been lifting transportation as the first government that's actually met the limits of the national transport plan. But we're not going to let it go. The budget presented tomorrow will show a direction forward. The centre has ambitions that the new national transport plan to be addressed by the Stortinget will change the pace of transport policy even more. It eats people all around the country, and it eats up business. The financial situation that has arisen shows that we should have invested even more in infrastructure in the past, because it provides a basis for value creation. But in the situation we're in now, giving gas in transport will be a positive counter-cyclical policy. We have a long debate about us with many beautiful words. The opposition has used words to tell us how excellent their policies have been, and how good it is to end the so-called red-green chaos. Now it is that well done is better than well said, and the government party will continue to do tomorrow what is impossible today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3678	This government and government parties are once again in this persuasion, as in most other debates we have had in this Chamber for the last three years, more concerned about telling about what the previous government did not, than telling what this majority government has done and actually intends to do. Is it not soon that a government that has been sitting for three years, and which has the bulk of the population behind it, is able to stand up for its own policy and take responsibility for the broken promises, too, the promises that have not been fulfilled? It's time for the government to begin to point out what it achieves in relation to the real needs that most people have, and not always relate to a completely different reality than the most people actually experience. Because if today's government grants more money than any other government has done, then why do more and more people have to stand in line, both in terms of child protection, psychiatry, hospitals and, in particular, the road sector - despite the fact that money use, according to the Government, increases far beyond cost growth? It is also clear that it is more important for this government to spend money on fancy projects abroad than to make sure that citizens in our own country give what they are actually entitled to offer. I understand that after three years, the government finds it more comfortable to compare itself with what the previous government did or did not do, rather than actually take responsibility for the policies you run, and the challenges you see in front of you, and you haven't been able to solve them. But it might just show how little the government has achieved on an independent basis, and how little that has given most people a better everyday life after three years with a red-green majority rule. Nevertheless, we hear from the few representatives from the Government who talk about their own policies and do not try to interpret the Advance Party, that everything will be resolved after the elections next year. We hear about promises of tens of billions of dollars more for transportation, project finance and a new course. There is no way in which results will be obtained only if they are given a new chance by the voters after the 2009 elections. This is nothing but empty rhetoric from a government that has not delivered much more than longer queues, higher charges, 16 interest increases and a variety of toll stations - and a Prime Minister who has stated: We vote for what we are in favour of, and against what we are against. Is that why the majority in this period has voted in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party in a number of important areas of society? As an example of an area where the Progress Party has made several proposals that would make a big difference for most people, I can mention, among other things. several tens of billions more for transport, reorganisation of roads, railway and coastal works to state companies that can raise loans for long-term transport projects, overall and overall development of transport corridors and an infrastructure fund for sustainable and predictable road and rail financing. But despite the fact that the Prime Minister has promised tens of billions of dollars for transportation, the Government has so far chosen to vote down all these proposals. So the big question has to be, are these just new, big choices without real content?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3693	A constant question in the districts is, why do we have deportation, why do we have a negative population development? Those who do not see the reason for this have political motives for not seeing the truth. Business in the districts complains, among others over two things -- both based on infrastructure: It's a bad road, which is expensive and makes it difficult to produce goods. A defective network that prevents the efficient use of electronic means. This creates a lack of development and value creation. Missing provision of services within schools and kindergartens and an unsafe health and care situation have been created on the basis of missing promises from the Government. I would like to refer to two examples from Sogn and Fjordane: Taking a starting point on the municipal bill, six municipalities in the Nordfjord region are missing. $70 million to balance the budget and financial plan in the fall. Then the Terra municipality of Bremander is not there. Local hospitals have provided safe and secure shelter for the inhabitants of our county, with the difficult geographical and climatic conditions we have in this county. Now the government, with its lack of ability to think of holistic health policies and with its lack of promises, has razed and taken away the security that citizens have had. Now it's just the shell left of the local hospital. We are now recording that some other government parties also talk highly about extra resources for infrastructure. Tomorrow, the state budget will be presented, and it will show whether it contains action or whether it is still only optional. The party of progress has been the strongest driver for building infrastructure, which in turn will result in value creation. I think that the cartoon in the VG last Friday in a brilliant way shows the government its walnut. I'm recording what people in the district say, and I'm completely in agreement. There has never been such a strong policy of centralisation as it is now. So I'm asking you the right question, is it strange that people are moving?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3726	The president doesn't have to answer that, but the next speaker is Ole-Anton Tegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3729	We need a new dream in the north. 40 years ago Martin Luther King Jr. said the famous words 'I have a dream'. Today, 6 October 2008, will be a dark day in the north. So it was the day that the Norwegian Sports Association ruled said no to an OL in Tromsø in 2018. Think of it-- twelve women and men were allowed to scrape such a big case, as most in the north wanted to realize because it would have an enormous positive effect for a whole part of the country, yes for the whole nation. This would be a North-Area effort in all fields - knowledge, research, the development of modern infrastructure, Arctic agriculture and Nordic food production on land and sea. We could get new and modern sports facilities and many new and sustainable jobs in research, development, media and, above all, travel. But unfortunately it didn't. It could give an engagement, a glow, a Northern Norwegian inauguration counter and a hard work effort that only northerners can show. If the sports board had today agreed to Tromsø 2018 and the majority in this room had followed up with a state guarantee, Tromsø could have competed with the candidate cities from South Korea, France and Germany on an OL in 2018. Now we were blown off before we came to the start, to huge disappointment for many northerners, but to the delight of a few stifling people on the extreme left and the extreme right wing in Norwegian politics. The opponents of this national initiative had as their main argument that this became too expensive, and that it would go beyond the grassroots, other sports facilities, county road maintenance and exclusive spaces for the elderly and nurturing, to mention something. In addition, the process of sport has been very critical and less loyal to previous decisions at different levels. I hope the same opponents don't stick their tail between their legs and jump and hide now that they've got what they want. I don't think we in the north are being prioritised in other parts of the country in important future policy issues in infrastructure, transport, school, research or a better everyday life for our young and old and nurturing. But it's just guessing. What we need now is a new and great vision for the continent. We need politicians with visions and spines who, together with the leading women and men in culture, education, research and business, take political decisions that can raise the northern part of the country to new heights and bring together a divided country into one kingdom. But we've got proof again that it's far from Tromsø to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3742	I stand here today with some awe, because according to the red-green parties, I am obviously a member of one of the most influential and powerful political parties in the world. I don't think Bush, Obama or McCain knows about me or the policy of the Progress Party, but it's still true that, according to the Red-Greens, we're responsible for the crisis over there. And unlike in this Chamber, the policy of the Progress Party has been very little debate there. In the Chamber today we see that the policy of the Progress Party is almost the only thing that has been debated, perhaps in the absence of a good red-green policy. But it is not just in this area that the Progress Party is given responsibility. No, even when it comes to global warming and climate, we are responsible for it getting warmer - even if we haven't participated in climate change settlements or driven Norway. We have also been blamed for a lack of integration, because we want to limit immigration, and because we dare to point to the challenges of a large immigration group. We have probably also been blamed for hunger, I have registered, because we want a different policy on u-help. Also, crime I've read that we've been blamed for, because we have a gift policy that's something different than the red-green ones-- although I don't want to say that the red-greens have done so much with the alcohol law lately. But is that what the Government claims? I don't think so. We now have a majority government, a majority government that has the ability to do what it wants. Nevertheless, we see newspaper headlines today on lifting breakage. As far as higher education and research are concerned, the Government has perhaps achieved the longest skilful skirmish in history. I think it's going to be very difficult to fix it on the rise side. In addition, it is said that the national transport plan is met. But I don't see the roads being built. I have not yet seen a metre of rail in my own household, Vestfold. So it might be tempting to quote the Swedish author Ivar Wallensteen: ‘Faulting is human; blaming others is politics.’ In this way, I would say that the Government has at least a lot of good politicians. I also want to mention a different relationship. The government has said that capitalism and the market economy are a good servant, but a bad master. Now I believe that we are all part of this sinister market that the Workers' Party says is so bad. And as a «worker party», I would believe and hope that they will be occupied with, and care for, the terms of their servants. That is where I would like to conclude with Alan Randolph, who once said about economic policy: by envy, there will be bad economic policy. I think that this government is too much concerned with envy, more concerned with taking the rich than with doing anything for the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3760	In the Roman Empire, the government launched its cooperation reform. I'm personally very happy fast. It is a necessary reform. It is a reform that creates winners at all ends. The goal is a better service offer; it is a reasonable service offer; it is a more detailed service offer. In addition, the specialist health service or hospitals are given greater opportunities for necessary specialisation. It is also high time that this reform came. It's the way that we don't solve the future with more cases of illness. The demography in the future suggests that we need to find solutions that are closer and that are more reasonable. A feature that has been little illuminated in relation to this reform is the opportunities offered by good skills jobs across the country. So this is a reform that is going to create opportunities for highly educated people with good skills to get work anywhere in Norway. That's good. I am therefore very happy and look forward to this materializing. It is also good to see that the Council of State puts a strong commitment to this matter, and I have to say that I am little impressed with the opposition that has used much of this debate to fool such a necessary grip. It's not a grip that someone else has initiated. This is a grip that the government has taken on, and there are basically a few things that we have a greater need to succeed in. It is also worth noting the dynamics of this reform. This is something the municipalities have initiated. It's a good example that society is built from below, that it's the municipalities that come up with something tricky, and that the state then adopts it. This has also happened many other times in Norwegian welfare development. I think the Progress Party can notice that, as I see it, it stands in sharp contrast to their blind belief that it is the State that is able to find the good solutions, that it is the State that implements them, and that it is the State that promotes this kind of dynamics through law and order. I also want to say two things about the central network in this throne. This is an important infrastructure. I am very pleased that the government chose to put its foot down for a merger with the Swedish company. This is important that we have national control over. It's important business policy, and it's an area that, at my discretion, has been neglected for some time. Now significant investments have been announced in the central network of Hordaland, in Trøndelag and in North Norway. We're totally dependent on getting a power price that is roughly the same, if we're going to have equal opportunities for business development, and if we're going to avoid going into the trap that the energy situation in Middle Norway is an example of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3775	In fact, we have a challenge that needs to be said to be far greater than today's international financial crisis, and that is our common climate challenge. We probably all know that 70 pst. - maybe 80 pst. - of the emissions from energy production around the world are man-made. Therefore, the concept of climate is so very, very closely related to energy production. There's a very precise context here. That's why it was very obvious that there's practically no world thing about energy or energy policy. It might not be very surprising. This is probably a very touchy theme for today's government, and what you had to be able to write about this topic, would become very unpresidual and modestly point out any kind of direction for the goals. In this picture, we see that consumption of energy in Norway is increasing, it is increasing quite uncontrolled and too much in relation to the expectations you should have in this area. We see that national climate emissions also go in a completely different direction than the political goal. And we see that the goal of producing new renewable energy in Norway is not near being achieved. In the climate agreement, we have set as a common ambition that by 2016 we will have 30 TWh of new renewable energy in place. We don't seem to be near that goal today. It is no good recycling as a news that the 2009 budget will now have 20 billion dollars in a basic renewable energy fund. That decision was taken already in 2006, and unfortunately the development has gone into our disfavor. Three government councils have been held in this department for three years. The last person even chose to use the time to start listening. There's not much more time left to listen. We don't have any policies in this area that can indicate a direction. Nor does it make sense to say that we should have an energy message next year, when oil production in Norway has decreased by a third since the turn of the century. We have a government with conflict inside, around and around itself, which is very good to tell you what you're against. But I believe the entire climate and energy sector now has a very strong need to know what this government really is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3786	The next speaker is Dag Ole Tegen, then Ole-Anton Tegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3789	It's Teigen's night tonight. We are in the fourth and last year of the term. The political results are significant, and it is a privilege to participate in a debate like this. In my home country, Hordaland, we are engaged in billions of investments in CO2 cleaning in Mongstad, which may have positive ring-effects for thousands of jobs. Yesterday a new odontology building was announced at the University of Bergen, and the university will be co-located at Kronstad. This is important education policy, but more than that: it is good news for the construction industry and the jobs there. Today came the message of a new building for Gulating. For the Western world, efforts are also important to strengthen the hospital economy and to ensure a fair distribution of income between regions. There's a red thread going through the government's work here at home and out in the world. The Foreign Minister once reminded us in a speech that Norway is not necessarily a small country - it depends on what we measure by. I agree. Last year Norway was the fifth largest oil exporter in the world. Two years ago, we were the third largest gas exporter. Norway is a major aid operator and an important defender of the UN. In relation to our population, Norway has great international influence. This influence must be used to be a clear voice for diplomacy, poverty reduction and the environment. Norway has been central to deforestation. Jens Stoltenberg is central to the collaboration to vaccinate the world’s children and to reduce child mortality. The Government has been the initiator of an international agreement against the use of class weapons to be signed in Oslo in December. This work lights it off. It's radiant. It doesn't matter who runs in Norway. It doesn't matter how we handle the events around us. When poor countries are hit hardest by global warming, will we combat this by means of measures such as CO2 clean-up, environmentally friendly energy and deforestation measures, or will we leave governance to those who believe that climate change is not man-made? Will we strengthen the aid, or will we build it down? When the world is going through a financial crisis, will we continue a responsible economic policy and the Nordic model, or will we leave governance to the Progress Party, which gives the impression of comparing Bush's policy with socialism? And if I understood them properly a little earlier here tonight, they compared Kristin Halvorsen's policy to Fidel Castro's. It doesn't matter who runs in Norway. In 2005, according to the SSB, there were fewer hands in the care of the elderly. Today we are in front of the form to get 10,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly. In 2005, hospitals did not receive funding for the growth of activity. In 2008, the number of treatments is growing. Under this government, 50,000 people have gone from free time to work. More have a job to do. These are things that matter. It's about people, and that's why I hope this government will be a re-elected government in one year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3814	In today's debate on the throne, we have had four major and important issues that will have a major impact on Norway in all areas in the years to come. Firstly, it is the great financial crisis that has had serious consequences in many countries. Among other things, I heard in the news at 1 p.m. 21 that Iceland was in bankruptcy. The other concerns renewable and sustainable energy, energy production and energy use. The third is climate and environmental challenges. The fourth point that has also been raised is food safety, food production and the global food situation. The financial crisis, energy, climate and environment have put very many representatives on the agenda, but food, food production and food security are only a few representatives from the Central Party together with the Minister for Agriculture. I am very happy that this important question is taken up, because without food every day we get sick and die. It doesn't help how much money we have on the book if we don't produce food ourselves, or someone else will sell it to us. On a global scale, almost one billion people live who don't have the daily bread. So that's 200 times the population of Norway. In addition, there are millions of people with diseases and disorders related to malnutrition and hunger, and the number is increasing for each year, although many different organisations and nations around the world are actively working to reduce world hunger. This contrasts with the fact that in history we have never produced as much food in the world as we have done in 2008. But the world's hunger problem is increasing. We have enough food for everyone, but the food is distributed very unfairly. Many, including We, living in unfathomable wealth and abundance and struggling with obesity and obesity. In addition, every day we throw thousands of tons of full food, while children and adults in Asia, Africa and South America lie hungry and crying every single night, all evenings of the year. This is not human dignity. Norway must, with its voice in the world, do everything in its power to get a fairer distribution in the world. We need to maintain food production and use food soil to produce food, not fuel for cars. We have to produce all the food we can, here in Norway. We can't afford to build down one square meter of food soil. We have to use the resources we have in our own country, grass and land resources, and then we have to bet on the ruminants: sheep, goat and cow - in addition to grain production. It is important to make use of all the possibilities available to us, so that we strengthen Norwegian food security with the construction of a strong Norwegian emergency stock of Norwegian cereals and food, while at the same time having a strong customs protection and a great deal that takes the farmer and his challenge and opportunities seriously. Only then can we in this room and the entire Norwegian people lie down safely every night.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3831	This is my eighth and last year at Stortinget. I have always looked forward to the debate on the throne, because, as I said in my introduction today, it is the most important debate in political Norway in Norway's main room. When I got up this morning -- I got up at 5 o'clock -- I thought today it would be a tough day. It's election year and opposition day, and we have to be prepared to defend ourselves against real attacks from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. But it didn't. It was a quiet day. Why was it a quiet day? Well, maybe it's because there's a lot of excitement about government policy. Perhaps the opposition has little to say about what the government is doing. We could take it as such a sign. For the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, the air went out of the balloon early. Early in the day the air was out of the balloon, and they've gone back to program formulation after program formulation--in turn and order. Then I had hoped that we would get up a government option, but there has not been any hint of government options. In fact, the Left and Christian People's Party have suggested that they might be willing to cooperate, but with the polls that are today, it is hardly a realistic alternative. So at the end of this debate, there is one alternative that can govern after the 2009 elections, and that's today's red-green government. It's a good alternative, which I actually attend, but I expect that when the election comes, there will probably be new things coming up again. One of the issues we have not received a response to in the debate today, and on which several of us have challenged them, is the matter that I said in this Chamber in September was the most important matter we have ever dealt with, and that is the case of a fall-back. Would the opposition take the fight for a fall-back if, against assumption, they were to have a majority after the elections? We have not received an answer to that, and we must challenge them further, because it is such an important matter that at least I want an answer to my last year on Stortinget. But as I said, this has been a calm debate. I interpret it as a support for the government's policy, and that there is actually no alternative in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3851	A few clarifications - first to the representative Inge Ryan. Now maybe the day won't be so good anyway, because we don't go back to our draft program formulation. So he has been wrong and obviously not listened to my post a few minutes ago. It is an advantage to listen to the debate when you draw sloppy conclusions at the end of a debate. I repeat: the Progress Party is opposed to price and quantity adjustments and to crediting to selected producers and groups - hence the formulation of confidence in the market in the draft of our principal programme. I'll keep going. In other words, the Progress Party is opposed to the credit policy pursued in Norway from 1945 to early 1980s, and we support the liberalisation of the credit market that took place at that time. This determines the Progress Party in its draft princely programme. I can repeat it for the representative Inge Ryan, but I hope he got it with him now. Then I can continue: this liberalisation, which has also been called the neoliberal shift, was also supported by the Workers' Party. He can find that on the credit authority.no and read all about it. So to the representative Dag Ole Tegen, who said here a little while ago that if he understood it correctly, the Progress Party compares Halvorsen's policy with Fidel Castro's. No, he did not get what was right. Now I'm going to say what's right: I said that the first finance minister Kristin Halvorsen did, was to say that the market economy has gone down, a statement from the News of the Day last Friday. Then I say it's a statement that no other finance ministers in the entire Western world would make. A statement -- not politics, but rhetoric. It's probably a statement that both Hugo Chávez and Fidel Castro had joined. So to day Ole Tegen: so he has not listened, nor understood it correctly. There are no other countries that have benefited as much from the market economy as Norway. That's why it's going to be saying that the market economy has gone down, a kind of failure statement, and I've fixed that. So I hope that Dag Ole Tegen has got this, and also Inge Ryan, so that we get rid of these kinds of misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3864	I would also like to say at the tame of today's debate that I think the day can be characterized as a rather special day. The persuasion debate shall be the opposition's debate, in which they shall be guided by the government's policy. It's their sun-enlightened right and duty. Even before lunch today, the opposition had shrunk in absolute all directions. Then Erna Solberg had parked the economic policy of the Progress Party. Then Lars Sponheim had done the same with the Right Petroleum Policy, especially with regard to the Lofoten and the Vesterål, while repeating his crystal clear no to the Advance Party. The representative Per-Kristian Foss followed up with precise characteristics of Per Sandberg's error in economic policy. The opposition effectively parked its own debate early in the day, yes, as effectively as the sports council about the same time parked an OL in Tromsø. The last thing I want to say is a tremendous disappointment for all of us who have seen the possibilities, what could have come out of ten years of work towards an OL in Tromsø in 2018. The first, on the other hand, that the opposition cracks in all directions and in no way appears as an alternative to the sitting government, is much easier to carry. Now we recently heard a representative from the Progress Party, Tybring-Gjedde, who was going to try to explain to the Stortinget what is really the economic policy of the Progress Party and the relationship between the policies they advocate, and their own programme. I don't know how the rest of the hall felt, but for me it became far from anything clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3877	I am not quite sure where Inge Ryan and Hill-Marta Solberg have been during this debate, because I have experienced a debate where all the red-green speakers have spent their time talking about the Progress Party. I had expected that a majority government that had the opportunity to really do something would use this debate to speak proudly about the views and visions of the Stoltenberg government for the country. Instead, almost all speaking time has gone wrong on the policies of the Progress Party. There's been a ralliing without a side. I must say that I am quite amazed at the ways in which this debate has taken place. I had appreciated, and actually expected, that we went in and discussed substance. What can we do to counteract the financial crisis that is getting closer and closer and more serious? The latest news from our neighboring country Island is not very funny. It's a country that's part of the Nordic model, which the Prime Minister praises in the clouds. It is a country that now warns that their entire banking sector is in the process of completely collapsing, based on a model that Prime Minister Stoltenberg is very proud of - the Nordic model. Then I think the Prime Minister should use a little more of his intervention in today's throne debate to tell the Norwegian people what ambitions he has as the country's prime minister to counter the financial crisis taking Norway, and what action he and the Government intend to take. This is what people are wondering. Instead, they get 10 minutes of rolling and false claims about the largest opposition batch. Quite ok, seen with my eyes, but perhaps not as ok with the eyes of the people, who expect leadership from their prime minister. So it is now time for the Progress Party to be blamed for the financial crisis. We can live with it, too. However, I think that the debate should approach a somewhat more decent level, in which we actually discuss matters, discuss solutions, discuss policies, discuss long-term views, and this debate has been completely exposed to. The parties that have come with views and visions are the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3888	It will soon be a strange debate when those with power do not even follow an old socialist slogan from Sweden that says ‘Be proud, but not satisfied’. We in the Left are unable to see what kind of short-term intervention the Government has on the fiscal crisis, but we respect that we are in the midst of such a crisis, so we will see what budget will be presented tomorrow. It's not because we lack politics, but we think it's okay to act this way. With regard to the long-term, and since this is a persuasive debate, we are simply unable to see the grips that are exerting in the climate crisis behind the financial crisis. We have to use magnifying glass to look for the word "research" in the throne. We find it related to a climate settlement concluded in Stortinget. I expect the government to follow it up, but it has to be obvious to most people that it needs more, but we'll only see the first signs when it comes to the budget. Since the representative Ryan was greeted here in the evening, he should, of course, talk to his own secretary who cancels the SV's own party program, not to mention the Soria Moria statement, about the ambition of dreaming anything, namely the pride of seeking knowledge through research. If you look at the intellectual contribution given by the secretary-in-chief to SV, you should worry about the party, because it's partly incorrect information about what SkattenFUNN means to Norwegian business when it comes to raising something, but the most important thing about it is that it's totally exposed to any ambition to want anything. I guess you should never take the secretaries -- except that they're citizens like everybody else -- but the party can mean something. I thought we were going to hear Ryan as a confessing sinner at the end of the debate, so that at least we felt that SV still acknowledged the belief that research was important to the country in order to create new jobs and to create the basis for ensuring democracy through well-educated citizens. But we don't. Instead, we get a representative who confesses that he does not have so much time left on Stortinget. Neither have I, but I intend to take out my legging fully until the last day. Absolutely! At least I don't think you should start the entrance in the last year by forgetting the slogan 'Be proud, but not satisfied'. So the government in this room and the Socialist Left Party people in this room: where has it been made by the pride of the research promise and the promise to build the country? It seems to be blown away. It concerns me a lot on behalf of the future of Norway. But we in the Left must pacify you as best we can. You can trust it. I'm going to take out all the legend and talent that life has given me as a gift, so we can have fun in the coming year!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3901	Oh, yeah! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3904	One may slowly laugh a little, but I think the situation is a bit too serious to laugh. In my article earlier today, I mentioned three crises. I mentioned the financial crisis. I mentioned the food crisis -- 900 million people are starving. I mentioned the environmental and energy crisis. What the country needs is predictability. I think what we see in finance right now, just want to escalate. It's going to increase in the future, and I think it's actually just the first ripples we see, about the consequences this is going to have for the world economy and for Norway's situation in the world. The country needs predictability - predictability of Community solutions, where the community has to prepare for the individual. We have the privilege in our country that we have the opportunity to meet difficult times. The red-green government will meet these difficult times wisely. I'm not afraid to say that I'm proud that we have the red-green government. I'm not afraid to say that we're proud of what we've got. But I am not afraid to say that we are not satisfied either, because we have not got everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3915	The financial crisis has cast its long shadows over this debate, and it is going to do so in other important debates and issues that we are going to deal with in the Stortinge in this big year. Therefore, it is worth noting that the red-green parties in this debate have tried to get the attention away from these serious issues by talking about the politics of other parties. They're talking about the financial crisis as something that comes at us from the outside, and we're not part of it. But then I'd say that cash-gap, greed-culture and profit-hunting are something that's most marked the period that the red-greens have run. This concerns the unilateral focus of hospitals on money in terms of patients and profitable diagnosis. For child-restraint children who are put up for tender. Drug abusers experience that their offers are being lost because of a one-sided commercial tendering practice against non-governmental organisations. The government has administered the Consumer Party of Time in Norway. This has happened under Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen. You don't have to come to the Stortinget and pretend that these phenomena are just something that's on Wall Street, which you can just drag into the staging room like shell words and put an American headline above. This is to the most extent part of our own society and our own challenge. I had hoped that the value debate would be held in this persuasion debate. We haven't got that. Therefore, it becomes a little strange when the SV parliamentary leader sums up the debate by saying that it has been so calm that the Stortinget must have basically given its support to the red-green analyses and policies. Of course it's not like that. This debate has shown that we are at an important crossroads, where several of us want to choose Community values, but we have slightly different definitions of what is common. We have a government that defines community as the public sector - sentence. But part of us in this room are concerned that community is about families, about non-governmental organisations, about community and the local community, and that it is about small businesses that are involved in forming the rootstock of this society. I believe that the broad dividing line in this debate really goes between the two Community views. I am looking forward to a new settlement in the storeroom in this big year about the values that cannot be measured in dollars and cents. They have unfortunately had very bad conditions under this red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3924	I also believe that the situation we're up in now is so serious that we can spend a lot of time on a political fine game, or as it sometimes stays in this room when it's a throne debate -- we're using vulgar rhetoric against each other. What is happening in our neighbouring country, where the Prime Minister has just held a press conference and said that it is possible for the country to go bankrupt, where they have a bank that is initially worth two and a half times the country's gross domestic product, and which is losing and is going to go bankrupt, and which can drag the whole country along, says a lot about us facing bigger challenges than what I think is both the Prime Minister's speech, the Minister's speech and much of today's debate. However, it also shows that it is very important for a country to provide a broad range of business, a broad range of value creation, and that one or two actors are not so dependent on innovation and innovation as for example. Nokia, Finland. It would turn right into that country's economy if it were really rocked by that company. Norway has a rootstock of small and medium-sized family-owned enterprises. Much of the employment is there. In the oil industry, we have a big player. But the one that has really grown and become international in recent years is the supplier industry that has spread in many areas. This means that, in today’s situation, long-term and predictability are extremely important, focusing on where value creation is and what framework conditions it has. We've tried to challenge the government, because it hasn't done that in three years. Then the Prime Minister can stand here and say it's been going well for three years. But it's not hard to be captain on a shot when there's wind and everything's going fine. What's difficult is to rule in the rebellious seas. If you haven't planned well in advance, it'll be harder. It has been our attack on the Government in this debate. It's like this government hasn't prepared us for harder times in the last few years. We don't have any more robustness in the economy. We have less robustness. But in the rhetorical world, I can say, today, Kristin Halvorsen has had a good day at work, because today, Difference Norway has become smaller. The stock exchange has fallen by 10 pst. The way we sometimes discuss politics here is that it's bad when the stock exchange rises, because then the rich get a little more money. The Prime Minister has spent a lot of time giving in to the rich in the last year and much less time commending those who create jobs by investing capital. In the future, we're going to need more people who are willing to deposit money to create jobs in this country, but then we need a different kind of policy than this government has. It's easy to be in government in good times. It's hard in difficult times -- and it's hard times ahead of us. That is why this country needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3933	The reason I asked for the word again was the representative Dørum, who for the second time today went to the front attack on SV because of some views that an employee of the Storing Group has come along with. I would first like to say that with us, it's the way employees are allowed to mean things, but it's the politicians who decide. At our group meetings, politicians are the ones who decide, and the politicians are the ones who have the power of SV. But we don't refuse any employees to mean anything and make suggestions and opinions on things. Then Dørum will have a clarification of SV's attitude to research and education. SV is a party that has always been involved in research and education - education from kindergarten to even higher education. That's one of the top priorities we've had. In all the time I've been following the party, that tab has always been raised high. We believe that the most important competence, the most important resource we have, is people. That's why you have to make sure that people get skills right from the time they're born, and like as long as they live, through lifelong learning. Therefore, there should be no doubt that we will give priority to all types of education, including higher education, and we believe that research is very important to bet on. We will also bet on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3942	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3945	Freedom of expression never worries the Left. It is the speech stature of all the others who are concerned about the Left-wing Consultancy both in the Government and the SV about how to think about long-term in relation to research that stimulates business, on which Solberg's representative was involved, and about the tax FUNN scheme, which statistical central agency has defined as a success. You're almost going to run over it. In that context, the silence of the SVs becomes the big point. When I took the floor, it was because I thought of this as the long-term right from long-term research goals from SV. But much worse: As I said, we must look for the word «research» in the throne of the Government. Let's see tomorrow. Then it's the day when we evaluate both the short-term and the long-term, and we're going to use the right of expression in all sorts of ways. I also took the floor because I don't think you should be legal, as Ryan's representative was. Some of us are imaginative, because we're up in a significant financial crisis. Then we realize that we have a significant climate crisis. We miss the ambitions for it, and then we don't have to have a single political game around it. The representative Ryan is right in one thing: then it's the fight for politics that decides, to create good solutions for countries and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3955	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3968	The size shall now vote on the proposals under case No. 1st@item: inlistbox These are the five proposals put forward by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3976	Mrs Solberg has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3979	I will not use time to argue against the proposals we are going to vote against. Most of these proposals seem to fit into the budgetary procedure. But I will be allowed to signal that we want to vote in favour of proposal No. 4, as we believe this applies to a matter that is good reason to get there as soon as possible for treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e3984	No one else has asked for the floor, and we can vote. The President will propose that we vote first on the proposals. 1, 2, 3 and 5 and then on proposal No. Four separately. - It's considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e4028	We shall then vote on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Grand Duchy, the Government is asking for a case to be submitted with an overview of public sector maintenance activities, both in relation to construction, including schools, hospitals, churches and hospitals, and in relation to infrastructure such as public roads and railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e4051	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King's speech to the 153rd Great by its opening and notification of the state and government of Norway be annexed to the Protocol. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-06.ana.ud196e4065	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
