ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e39	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative of Right Ole Frithjof Klemsdal died on 18 August – 85 years old. Ole Frithjof Klemsdal was born on 26 July 1923 in Mandal. He graduated from high school in 1940, followed by a Bachelor's degree in 1941 and a Master's degree in 1944. Three years later, he graduated from Oslo Technical School. The first two years after graduation, Klemsdal worked as a designer in the United States. In 1948 he began as an engineer in the family business Mandals Motorfabrik. The engine factory was his place of work for the rest of his active professional life, only interrupted by a period of work study at the NEBB in Oslo in the years 1952-1953. At Mandals Motorfabrik he was the manager until 1967, when he became a dissentant - a position he held until he was elected to Stortinget in the autumn of 1981. Ole Frithjof Klemsdal was chairman of the Mandal Young Right in 1949-1950 and had several positions in Mandal Right. He was a member of the Mandal City Council in 1953-1963, and he was a member of the Presidency until 1959. In 1957-1958 he was vice-president. He also had a number of municipal and public duties, including: the chairmanship of the local electricity plant, of the municipality's technical selection and of the port board. For many years he was a board member of Mandal Sparebank, where he served as chairman of the board from 1970 to 1982. Klemsdal was chairman of the Motor Factory National Association for two periods, in the 1960s and 1980s. Ole Frithjof Klemsdal was a representative of the borough of the Right in West Agder at the end of the period 1966-1969, following a new election settlement in May 1969. He was also alternate in the period 1973-1977, but did not meet at Stortinget during this period. The Klemsdal was elected as a permanent representative at the elections in the autumn of 1981, and he was re-elected for the period 1985-1989. In the first period he was on the Defence Committee, while in 1985 he became a member of the Energy and Industry Committee. He was an alternate member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee of October 1984. Ole Frithjof Klemsdal came surprisingly into national politics. His name had not been depicted during the pre-nomination, but the nomination committee was not in doubt when his name was brought up, and wanted the Klemsdal in the exposed second place. Klemsdal was on a business trip in the United States, but was very surprised when he was presented in Seattle for the nomination committee’s proposal – with notice that the committee wanted a response on a standing basis. Defence and security policy was among the most central policy areas in the first half of the 1980s, and as a member of the Defence Committee, Klemsdal was naturally very much involved in these issues. At the same time, he was a capable district representative and a hot spokesman for business. This was not least the case for small and medium-sized industrial enterprises – a type of enterprise that he knew out and into after many years in the family business Mandals Motorfabrik. In its second period at Stortinget, Klemsdal, as a member of the Energy and Industry Committee, could devote most of his commitment to business and business. In the mention of the 60th anniversary Klemsdal in 1983, the fatherland friend mentions, among other things: that in all his ways he has been as reliable as the old good Marna engine. These are words that fit just as well as the description of Klemsdal's time at Stortinget. We remember Ole Frithjof Klemsdal for his work on the Storting and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e62	From 1 November 2008 until 17 January 2009, an application for parental leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Espen Johnsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud, is called to meet during the period of leave. Synnove Brend Klemetrud is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets with the representative Espen Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e83	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e86	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Svein Flätten, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I would like to propose a reduction in the administrative costs of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e91	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e104	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e111	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and informative presentation. It allows dialogue with the Government and input from the Storing in public space to take care of Norwegian interests in relation to the EU, but also to provide views on issues of common European interest. The follow-up to the European Communication and the setting here in Stortinget has been well under way, with the main focus being more transparent, coordinated and active in early-stage EU/EEA issues. It requires follow-up by both the Government, the Stortinget and the party groups. I can convey that, for the Workers' Party, we have increased significantly our contact with the political groups in the European Parliament, both at the level of the group and at the level of the trade committee. We see this as important because of the growing importance of the European Parliament in the EU decision-making process. As regards the Storting, positive changes have taken place with the strengthening of the competence and information of representatives, including: before the European Committee meetings. Nevertheless, I believe that we have managed to involve too little so far in the ongoing dialogue with the Government, among other things. in the European Committee on topical and urgent subjects at work. But I would like to add, for the Labour Party, that it does not concern the six-monthly debates on the statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here I register a great deal of interest from the trade unions. I also refer to our representatives in various trade committees, for example. as regards comments on climate, energy, Schengen and domestic policies. Our work towards the EU must be done through bilateral contact with each Member State for information exchange based on needs and interests. In this context, I would like to mention the active activities of the established German-Norwegian parliamentary partnership group, with great interest from both German and Norwegian sides. Regardless of the problems facing the EU at Ireland's No to the Treaty of Lisbon, I am convinced that they will find solutions and that institutional reforms will continue. A special challenge for Norway in terms of influence and influence is the EU's willingness to pursue a more comprehensive policy, a policy that is cross-sectoral, with the disintegration of the pillar structure. We see this through the EU launch of comprehensive strategies and legislative packages, as mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The financial crisis has dominated the global, European and national agenda this autumn. I think it is positive that the leaders of the EU countries came up with a coordinated economic rescue package and have taken cross-policy initiatives to increase international committed cooperation for financial sector governance and control. It is gratifying that strong conservative leaders on the continent realize the limitations of market liberalism. The head of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Martin Schultz, praised both Sarkozy and Barroso for speaking as good social democrats during the Tuesday debate in Strasbourg. I have also registered here at home that the Progress Party has turned in line with the scale of the crisis – from being market liberals in the programme to supporting state intervention in national and international banking and financial activities. When the Progress Party calls Bush a socialist, I wonder what they will call liberals and conservatives on the continent who are in charge of global financial management and a settlement with capitalism. But this was a side run. The financial crisis has hit the Icelandic banking system and the economy with full strength. I am pleased that the Government assesses all possibilities, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, ‘to show solidarity and solidarity with our brothers’. We need to assist Iceland, preferably in a Nordic or European framework, but of course based on Icelandic wishes and needs. The importance of the financial crisis for the Icelandic discussion on the EU/EEA relationship will be accompanied by interest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also mentioned another issue that has been at the heart of the agenda, namely the war in Georgia, where France and the EU were the key actors contributing to the peace agreement. I am pleased that Norway, regardless of the cause of the war, clearly distanced itself from Russia's military use of power and the recognition of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Georgia is not responsible for the conflict, but it is necessary that Norway and the international community contribute to the reconstruction and development of the country. At the same time, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the channels to Russia must be kept open. It is dialogue that is the basis for political and diplomatic solutions. It is my hope that the follow-up to the peace agreement in the Georgia conflict can contribute to the continuation of the negotiations on new EU-Russia Partnership Agreements. The building of interdependence offers greater opportunities for conflict prevention. This does not mean that one should accept violations of international law, but requires countries to comply with their international obligations. The Foreign Minister described the bilateral relationship with Russia as well. It's positive. The relationship with Russia is important for Norway as a neighbouring country — not least in the northern regions. Keywords are resource management, energy, environment and border cooperation in civil society. I myself was visiting Coast Guard in Sortland a few weeks ago and was given an emphasis on the importance of cooperation with the Russian authorities in the north. I welcome the fact that a number of other countries are now focusing on the north and that the northern dimension of the EU is no longer stopping at the Baltic Sea. The Minister for Foreign Affairs briefly discussed the negotiations with the EU on new contributions to the EEA financial instruments. It is also in our interest to ensure cohesion and stability in the new EU countries, to link, cooperate and participate in an enlarged EEA, which is something more than just trade. I would just like to reiterate from the previous debate that one should ensure a greater element of Norwegian management and cooperation projects with Norwegian actors, and that one in the negotiations must follow the recommendations of the social partners to include the social dimension as an objective and the social partners as a target group for the development of cooperation relations with all the new EU countries. Proposals for own funds have been launched for the social partners, similar to NGOs. Representative organisations and cooperation between labour market partners will contribute to the economic and social development of countries. The Nordic model is an important export product. Despite the existence of many good cooperation projects, there has also been criticism of inefficiency and extensive – too extensive – bureaucratic and resource-intensive application rounds. This must be taken into account in improving financial instruments for the new EU countries. The consultation on the Services Directive ended on 20 October, following a long and thorough process. I believe it has been right to give clear answers to the issues raised. Now we await the Government's decision. I would just like to underline two points here: firstly, the importance of the service sector for employment and the need for Norway to participate on equal terms with all other European countries in the service sector of the internal market covered by the EEA Agreement; secondly, that the rights of workers and social partners are guaranteed and that work against social dumping is not weakened. It could have been tempting to give some personal assessments of these considerations on the basis of the services directive and investigations that have been carried out, but I will leave it in this round. I would also like to congratulate the Government on the final reading of the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e151	The conflict between Russia and Georgia challenges Europe in a way that, fortunately, we have not experienced for several years. Violence was used between two independent countries. It is correct and necessary to get to the bottom of how this could happen, not least to prevent recurrence in the Caucasus or elsewhere. Despite all the depressing reports in advance that something serious could occur, and there were many such reports, the power not of Europe's security structures to avert armed conflict. Everyone here should go by themselves to see if anything could have been done differently. At the time of the conflict, the EU and the OSCE, in particular, acted in a reasonably effective way and, hopefully, have made it possible to avert an even greater disaster. We are satisfied with the balanced way in which the Government has managed this conflict. Criticisms of, inter alia, Russia for the excessive use of power and recognition of the two break-out republics has been clear and correct. At the same time, we, i.e. Norway, have abstained from the language we have seen from, for example. Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. Many have warned against a new cold war, and I am afraid that some of our allies have resorted to a language that, at worst, can drive us in such a direction. We believe it is right to continue cooperation with Russia in all the important areas in which we are cooperating today. We think it is necessary to have more involvement in Russia, not less, while always being clear in our message when we experience that Russia is handling itself in ways that are unacceptable. Our friends in Iceland are experiencing tough times. They have even gone so far as to say that they have to look for new friends because old friends have not given enough support. Now such a wording should not be aimed specifically at Norway, but it must be important for any Norwegian government to be in a position to assist a neighbor in an effective and concrete way when such crises occur. We are very pleased that Norway and Iceland are now in an active dialogue on cooperation to facilitate the situation in Iceland and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, it is about ensuring stability and predictability in the North Atlantic. If the Norwegian government has been active enough against Iceland in recent weeks, it is difficult to have any absolute formation. But in any case, it's important that we always be careful to be in such a position that we don't feel that the conditions in the North Atlantic are dramatically changed as a result of the fact that we're not running enough. But now we're in direct contact. We take that into account and think it's good. I was surprised that the Foreign Minister did not mention in one word what the financial crisis in Iceland meant for the Icelandic European debate. Many who have previously been negative to EU membership have now indicated that this is the solution for Iceland. Much remains before it can happen. But there can be no doubt that this would happen, there is a significant challenge for Norway, not least as regards our common foundation, the EEA. I would like to believe that in government circles there are analyses and thinking about these things, because it is signalled by the EU team that any Icelandic membership can take place fairly quickly after an application has been submitted. How does the government think of dealing with this? From our point of view, it's natural that we face such a challenge with openness, don't try to sweep it under the carpet and bet on the problem going over. We miss signals that the Government will guide us through such a challenge, and not just passively relate to it. Similarly, the statement points out that changes in the EU’s approach pose challenges for Norway and that the EEA Agreement’s arrangements do not capture the new approach in the EU. The analysis is correct. The government is right to inform the Storting about this challenge, but where is the vision of active organisation to address this problem? We are fully aware of the institutional, and to the extent that the political constraints, which lie there as we move in this cold water. But if we assume that the EEA Agreement will continue to be our framework in relations with the EU for many years to come, we lack the vision of an EEA better adapted to today's reality. This type of challenge, mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will probably not be fewer in the coming years. One can be tempted to believe that the status quo is OK, because it will serve the no-side by the fact that the EEA Agreement will run slowly but surely run out to date, and it will serve the yes-side by believing that it will open up to Norwegian membership. Now I don't think the government thinks in these ways, but you also have to make sure that you don't become a hostage to those who just do it. It is risky to talk about a more adapted EEA agreement, because it means an active change to the existing one. But it is equally risky not to do anything. Europe is shaped by dynamic cooperation that changes character all the time. Those who are based on yesterday's solutions can quickly be evicted. Then to the Services Directive. We understand that the government has problems. We understand that drawing a conclusion can be challenging. But we don't understand that the government is served by the insidiousness you're now showing. One chooses to push a difficult case in front of it, and thus we put an important area in play throughout the internal market. We respect an active discussion on the right of reservation, but using it in such a vital area as services will have major consequences – consequences that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not mention. He chooses not to mention in one word the offensive and positive aspects of the Norwegian operators' Services Directive. Instead, it is said that, in this context, decisive emphasis will be placed on the rights of workers and on the fight against social dumping. These are important questions. But it is also important to conclude, to focus on what a no will mean for the future of the EEA Agreement. As the Government now argues, it conceals the fact that a no to the Services Directive will have a major impact on the EEA. It's hard to see how big, but it's completely unrealistic to think that a breach of a Services Directive will not mean anything to our participation in the EEA. A problematization of this would have been useful. We experience a government that reads the terrain as well as some, but that acts politically in a way that contributes to anything other than an active European policy. The relationship with Europe is not easy. And it'll certainly just be even more demanding. Then it's important to want something. When the internal market was launched in the EU in the 1980s, Norwegian politicians took action to safeguard Norwegian interests. And innovative solutions were found. What are we doing today to adapt to tomorrow's challenges? Such debates will always be controversial, and especially in Norway. However, the absence of debate will prevent active Norwegian adaptation to the EU. The Norwegian fear of touching the theme has probably been well-founded for the last 15 years, but at some point this fear must be overcome. And it's maybe in times of major upheavals, as we're seeing now, that there's a certain space for action to think a little bit outside of the drawn lines that we know so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e177	Before I come to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement, let me say that the Grand President has underlined the need for us to meet this financial crisis, not with protectionism, but with good international organisations that find common solutions, both in articles and yesterday in the speech at the Castle. I believe that with regard to the crises we have been through historically, in world history, we have come out of the crises that have led to more cooperation, more coordination and greater joint effort, not the crises that have led to more protectionism, more struggle between countries and less cooperation. That is why my basic argument is that we should be members of the EU, precisely that the EU in our part of the world is the organisation that expresses this cooperation, and the most cohesive organisation to solve common challenges in well-developed societies like ours. It is the organisation that not only consults and works on things within the Treaty but also consults and is the basis of experience for other countries, to go together and take initiatives. That is why, in many areas today, the European Union is also leading the world, far beyond the usual areas of the European Union. This is why it was the EU that dealt primarily with the Georgia–Russia situation. That is why it is quite right, as the Foreign Minister said, that the EU is the organisation that today promises the international joint work on climate and environmental issues in the future – because they take active action in relation to their own climate policies and therefore set a standard for others, as a result of making standards in the large market like Europe, standards that when industry has to follow them, lift several countries into the same. A few months ago, I read an interesting article about how both Chinese and American business have laid down European – not Chinese or American – environmental standards for their production, because they found that they could not operate with two different production lines. It actually shows how important the EU is in many more areas than we normally think. I say that, too often we spend the most time in this room complaining, where we have something to complain about, across the EU or ESA or others. That's why we forget to tell you that in many areas this organization is helping to raise the world to the same values, the same desires that we have for our country. It is the collection of countries that believe in democracy, human rights, market economy governance, transparency in decisions. So I think we should be a member. So I'm going to say something about what's really the matter today, the statement. I want to stress that the situation in which our neighboring country Island has come into being is a situation in which I think we can't let go of involving ourselves strongly. One thing is old historical kinship, proximity and understanding, another thing is that it's important to show solidarity when other countries close to us, not just those that are far away, get big problems. That's why 14 days ago we took the initiative by writing letters to the Prime Minister and asking for a greater and more active commitment to help Iceland. I am pleased that a delegation has been sent this week, and that you monitor and contribute. I think that we as Nordic brothers absolutely have a job to do. But I also think that we should try to put this issue on the agenda with the EU and with other Nordic countries, so that several countries contribute to the fact that Icelanders do not feel isolated and alone. The representative, Høglund, referred to an opinion that probably had an address for the United Kingdom and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, which thus scored domestic political points in a stressful situation, but which, of course, also made the situation even more difficult for Iceland by the way they handled it. You shouldn't handle it like that, even if you don't agree. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now clearly saying that Norway and the EU have followed the same lead in the opinions on Georgia and Russia. We reviewed the opinions and found out that we almost systematically felt that Norway used weaker terms than the EU had done in that conflict. We do not think this is the case where Norway should be concerned with questions related to the fact that a small country experiences being defined into the sphere of interest of a larger and aggressive neighbour. I agree with Mr Støre that Russian language usage is both confrontational and aggressive, and I am concerned about the direction Russia is going in. I believe it is important that we mark this through important European values such as democracy and peaceful cooperation, not military aggression, when we meet Russia. We must be clear and clear that we do not accept the idea that other countries have a sphere of interest that goes beyond their own borders and limits the freedom of action of smaller countries. We agree with the desire for reconciliation between Russia and the rest of Europe, but it also, in our opinion, requires a Russian will to follow what we can call European rules of play, including in this cooperation. I think it is good that we stress the good cooperation we have with the EU in the northern regions, but I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has nevertheless rejected a proposal from the European Parliament for a new international debate on the governance of the Arctic. In substance, we do not disagree with the Foreign Minister that what is in the opinion itself, and how it is to be handled, is not the way we should have it, but I think it is incredibly important for us in the future that also in the issues of how to manage the Arctic, we have the EU as a partner in the work, we are involved in their understanding, and we have them in our backs when we get into a situation where there are going to be major resource discussions and conflicts with our neighbouring countries. I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the question is this: Has the Government taken the initiative of the European Commission to influence the conclusions of the European Commission's communication on the Arctic? In that case, there's an area where it would be interesting to get more information about what the positions are. So to two things that I'm busy taking too long. Paragraph 1: We have lost one thing in ESA, yes. Let's say it like this: Some of us said that before we lost that case in ESA. The fact that the Government chose to discriminate between Norwegian companies and European companies in the context of the ETS Directive was a matter in which we were obviously going to have problems with ESA. That is why the Progress Party and the Right put forward another proposal, which would be in line with the ESA rules and which would not be discriminatory, and we have put forward that again in the Stortinget. We believe that if we adopt it, we are within the regulatory framework, and then we can get Norwegian participation in the EU's quota trade. I want to remind you of one thing: in all the debates we had before we got the climate agreement, the Government's position was that the main instrument was the quota trade. So now quota trade has been going on for a year in the EU without us being there, without the Norwegian companies being there. So the most important instrument for the government before the climate deal is not because the government is eager to complete things. The second is the Services Directive. Of course, it is not to be implemented until 2010, but we have a situation in which this government has conducted four consultations, six peer reviews and, in fact, we have come up with what we could say the day after the Services Directive was presented. There is no reason to say that this is a directive that provides social dumping. It is a directive on which the Norwegian industry has a lot to earn and little to lose, because we are already an open economy on the service side, while Norwegian businesses are facing trade barriers in other countries – a growing part of the economy – yes, this is design, this is technology, these are all areas where I have often heard Norwegian ministers of industry from different parties talk with swings about how Norwegian society is going to evolve. It is those who face the barriers to trade, those who are not only engaged in clean, ordinary production of goods. They feel that countries have technical obstacles to this, and we should be aware that here we have a lot to gain and little to lose. But we can never be 100 pst. ensure what the European Commission interprets – not by this Services Directive, but by the directive we already have on the posting of workers from other countries. We can never have guarantees against that. But now is the time to conclude. I believe that the government should be able to say when they come to the Stortinget with a conclusion. Are they coming before the election? When are they coming? I registered that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not say that yesterday in the Chamber, he said outside the Chamber, namely that the Government would come before the elections. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can also confirm that we have this in place in good time before the elections, and that the Government has not intended to go into an election campaign where it looks as if they have already given up, because they believe that the matter disappears. I think it's more likely that it's the government that disappears at the next election, and then they don't have to decide on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e207	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to have a great deal of recognition for a very informative and I would like to say in many ways a sober explanation. It doesn't contain a bunch of hysteria around themes like Iceland and Russia. That's the other thing that takes care of. He has thus set the tone for an informative debate on important issues, which are important both for the EU and for Norway. Erna Solberg regrets that we are not a member of the EU. She says that very often — every time she has the opportunity — but nothing indicates that we have any debate that Norway should apply for EU membership for a long time to come. There is no majority in the people to send a new application. It shows a consistent no-majority, and not least the poll that came today morning. The Foreign Minister was very clear that we should help the brothers in Iceland. It's true that the situation is complex. An inflated financial sector and privatised major banks without sufficient control mechanisms was an important reason for the crisis to hit Iceland so hard. I have to say it makes the impression when you hear interviews and get an overview of the consequences for ordinary people. It is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that aid takes place on the basis of what the Icelandic people need. And if the IMF enters the aid package, it is important that Norway uses the influence not to accept public sector reduction or other liberalisation requirements, which often come from there. The EU’s most thought-out followers are trying to create a picture of an island that is on full speed into the EU. It is clear that the discussion goes at regular intervals – it is only quite natural. But there's nothing to suggest any soon Icelandic membership. First, there is a clear majority in Everything against applying for membership, and several leaders have confirmed their resistance. Secondly, the economy does not mean that the European Union is the answer. The huge size of banks has been used as a maritime argument for the EU. That argument is now dead. Crisis times have brought about a need for community and assembly, not for fragmentation around an EU debate, says our friends in Iceland. We agree with the Foreign Minister that the EU, under the leadership of France, contributed constructively in the serious situation that arose after the war between Georgia and Russia. Norway has been balanced in its responses. Russia's use of military power towards neighbouring countries was unacceptable, and it was necessary for the world community to respond. But at the same time, it is important to establish that Georgia had a responsibility for the outbreak of the war. Georgia's attitude towards South Ossetia and Abkhazia has been critical. Instead of building confidence, the President has had a confrontational attitude towards local authorities in the two regions. Over the last few years, there has been a strong upgrade with good help from Israel and the United States. There's an upgrade on Russia's doorstep, plans for a rocket shield included. The result is that Russia feels more isolated, and that the hawks in Russia get more power and more space. It is essential with all the means to mitigate the level of conflict and keep the channels open to Russia, as the Foreign Minister also said we should. The last thing we need in Europe is a cold war rhetoric. It is good that we signal the will to increase the contribution of military observers through the OSCE. The relationship with Russia would be Bjørn Jacobsen to say something more about – the defence committee was known as going on in Russia. The world cannot afford to forget climate change under financial crisis. Climate change is an existing issue, a challenge that threatens the basis of life on earth. We cannot send the bill either to the world's poorest or to our grandchildren. Therefore, it is good that the EU and Norway do not use the financial crisis to push the necessary climate action. It is important that Norway continues its driving role, as we do with announced actions in the budget. However, there is reason to ask whether we in Norway or the EU are doing enough. We're behind the two-degree goal. That's very good. However, if we are to be honest and get into the sea, neither the EU nor Norway have taken measures that are sufficient to achieve this objective. Here we have to be more ambitious. Together with the EU, we have high ambitions for renewable energy. If we already have a high share of renewable energy, more than any EU country, it will be difficult to comply with a future renewable directive, not least in relation to the energy saving requirement contained in the proposal for a directive. We have huge energy reserves in Norway, not least in sea power, and it is the individual country that can contribute most to achieving ambitious targets for the EU and Norway. The call for us must be that we go ahead of the EU and prepare to implement the directive as quickly as possible. The debate is high on the European Commission’s proposals for a social package. When the package was presented in Parliament, the reaction was that it would take the EU in the wrong direction, at least in relation to what the Socialist Party said. But most of all, discussions are going on in the European trade union movement. There is great concern following the judgments in the Viking Line, Laval, Ruffert and Luxembourg cases. The judgments each distort the relationship of power between the trade union movement and employers and indicate that the basis for professional rights is seriously weakened at a time when the trade union movement in the EU is on the defensive. This concern is particularly strong in the trade movement in Sweden, which, before the EU vote in 1994, promised that professional rights would be entirely a national responsibility. Now it turns out that the European Court of Justice has the last word, and it affirms or takes the view that national labour law is governed by EU law. In the debate on the Services Directive, it is necessary to see how the judgments intervene in the relationship between the Services Directive, the Posting of Workers Directive and the fundamental provisions of the EU Treaty on the four market freedoms, the right of establishment and competition rules. I would like to pay great tribute to the LO Secretariat, which, through its work, raises some important and fundamental questions about the Services Directive and Norwegian social dumping instruments, whether Norway is able to leave public services unhindered, whether Norwegian labour law can be sovereign in relation to EU law, and whether Norway should be able to use the 1994 ILO Convention independently of the EU. History shows that it is highly uncertain whether there is any reliable answer to these questions for the welfare country. Therefore, it is important to maintain the possibility of exercising the right of reservation. When the Right roughly goes out of its good skin and says that the Government is freaking out because it spends time on these very important questions, it shows that the Right will not go into these questions in a serious way. If there had been a right-wing government now, the directive would have been implemented for the longest time – that is what Erna Solberg said quite clearly. The representative, Høglund, tried to whip the Government so that it is passive in relation to the EU. That's not right. The government has been upright in relation to important issues such as repatriation and district support and through constructive proposals, and it is to be commended by the Government. This has been an important and fundamental issue for Norway. Finally, something that too many may be curious, but important enough: I read that the European Union is going to bring up the Irish people, who said no to the Treaty of Lisbon – only the information is good enough, probably the European Union will get what they want. First, probably the Irish were fully aware of what they said no to, and had good enough knowledge. This shows that the people of Brussels, the elite in Brussels, have not learned so much about how to behave in relation to people who say anything other than what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e235	Iceland is shaken by a serious financial crisis. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was right to begin his presentation by stating that Norway is positive in assisting our neighbouring country in the west. This is an attitude to which the Christian People's Party gives full support. Nordic solidarity commits, not just in words, but in action, when necessary. We've requested action before. Now a Norwegian delegation has travelled to Iceland to gain a more in-depth insight into the problems through meetings with Icelandic authorities. That's good. It would have been even better if it had happened before. For every day that goes without proper action being taken, the effects of the financial crisis may be greater than necessary. Crisis management is called on national responsibility, but also internationally. This applies to both the international financial crisis and the conflict in Georgia. That is when we have appropriate international forums – from the UN at global level, to Euro-Atlantic cooperation bodies such as NATO and the OSCE, and cooperation forums in Europe and our neighbourhoods. The conflict in the Caucasus also called for crisis management. If it first said to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that ‘Georgia is undoubtedly not without responsibility for the outbreak of the conflict’. Then he added: ‘The full scope of the Russian military action was due to indicate a clear distance from the scope and scope of the military action.’ With such an invading sport, it was most justified for him to say in the next sentence that the Russian action was a breach of European and international rules and norms. It's important that it gets fixed. In the face of the financial crisis, crisis management is also required. Strong action has gradually been taken by national authorities in many countries, both within and outside the EU. The European Union, with the euro area countries at its head, had a far more entrenched way to go before they finally got together on a crisis package. And in order to respond effectively to the crisis, the euro area countries had to put aside the rules of monetary union in practice. For example, the German rescue plan may: the budget deficit is more than 5 p.m., whereas, according to the Economic and Monetary Union, the border is known to be 3 p.m. It is worth noting that the monetary union guidelines do not take into account the ability to deal with such a crisis. It's also an experience. We who live in the richest part of the world are equipped to endure crises. Norway has a very strong financial spine. We have built it over a long period of time through a disciplined use and saving the revenues from the huge oil and gas resources that have made us disillusioned. Most of the lots in this room have come together about this moderation and accountability line of which we are now harvesting the fruits. It has sometimes entailed a political cost, but it has been a good investment. And today, the nation – and we all – can reap from it. It is also a lesson that too far-reaching liberalisation can increase the risk of such financial crises. Instead of eliminating all regulation of financial markets, we need regulations that promote healthy competition, responsible lending and discourage greedy attempts to earn additional bonuses by inflating turnover artificially or hiding risks in complex financial structures. We in Norway can rejoice that we are rich and strong enough to ‘stand him off’, as they say in the north. But the consequences can be dramatic in the world's poorest country. If their demand for goods falls, their export prices and revenues also shrink. Then large populations can once again sink into even deeper poverty and distress. For many of our fellow human beings, the margin is small between a safe but simple life and pure and cut need. The biggest test of our will for solidarity is here. Europe must never become itself enough. True solidarity does not stop at national borders, does not stop at EU or Schengen borders, nor does it stop at Europe's external borders. The government has announced that the next year will present a big message on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective. As an aperitif, yesterday the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a brief summary of what is happening in the EU in this field. A number of directives were referred to. I should like to hear more about the government's assessment of them. An exception here was the Prüm Directive on enhanced police cooperation, which improves the possibilities for exchanging information from national databases on DNA, fingerprints and vehicles. On this point it was clearly stated in the clear text that the Government considers it important to link Norway to this Directive and hopes that it will take place during today’s French Presidency. I share that view. Climate and energy challenges are an important global problem, and Norway and Europe must take the lead as pioneers. Norway has a higher share of renewable energy than any EU country, in fact about 60 p.p., mostly due to hydropower. In the context of CO2 capture work, the Mongstad project is highlighted and the process of obtaining ESA’s approval of State aid to it. But the foreign minister did not say much about the planned CO2 capture plant at Kårstø. I would therefore like to ask for an update on where the work on such a sewage treatment plant is on an appropriate occasion. The Services Directive is a repetition of the policy agenda, and it is also the call for an assessment by the Government. I believe that, on the part of the opposition, we started in January 2006 by asking for an explanation of the consequences – not the conclusions, but the consequences – as the Government assessed it in the directive. Then we were told that it was a deadline for consultation on 22 February – I think it was. Then we asked again in November, and then we were told that there were new investigations started, and there were new hearings, and this has been going on for a few years now. We understand that this matter is difficult for the Government. We understand that there are contradictions within the Government about how to evaluate the various elements, but I think, in the spirit that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has put in place for Norwegian foreign policy, namely that we should have an open and real debate without necessarily going into the trenches – there has been a standard foreign minister who has tried to set in many areas – that standard could be put by the Government in this area. I think it would have been more informative for people. And I think it would have served the case, namely to know how demanding and difficult the Services Directive is for Norway, and to what extent Norway has been able to use the most powerful means we have to influence it, or to deal with it at the end. Now I understand that we probably don't get the Foreign Minister's assessment of the consequences this time either. But I would appreciate, as the representative of Solberg also expressed, the foreign minister's assurance from the Parliament's pulpit that the conclusion will come, preferably this year, at the latest in the new year. If there's no doubt that the government is able to conclude at all, that's before the election next year, and I don't think that would be appropriate. The LO has set out four requirements to be met. If not, they will refrain from Norwegian ratification. The Christian People's Party shares many of LO's concerns and their demands on the Government, and therefore, for our part, we will place great emphasis on how the Government evaluates these points, and how the Government concludes at these points. Finally, let me briefly say that Norway is a major contributor to the EU through the EEA Agreement. We contribute to social and economic cohesion in Europe more than most. That's good. Norway is well served, and it is our connection to Europe that serves. From a fair distribution point of view, Norway’s contribution is already far from the top. I believe it would be unreasonable for the EU to demand a significant new increase when these contractual relationships are renegotiated. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed with me on this, although he did not comment on the content of this issue, but referred to the process and time perspective of the negotiations on the EEA contribution. I think it's important that Norway appears outwardly as a solidarity nation, as a nation that wants to involve itself in cooperation on development and subsampling in the part of the world that we're part of. But we shouldn't let ourselves be exposed to something that reminds us of pure extortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e282	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a comprehensive international presentation with a focus on Europe. The Group of the Centre Party welcomes the clear position of the Government in the conflict between Russia and Georgia. It is reassuring in a very demanding case. The international financial crisis has contributed to a difficult situation for Iceland, and the position of the Norwegian government, with an open hand for Iceland, we are very pleased with. Internationally, three main issues require considerable political effort, namely the financial crisis – which is a systemic crisis – which requires a new review of international laws and regulations in order to ensure stability in banking and financial industries. It is the climate crisis, with a strong demand for the transition to renewable energy resources, and it is not least the food crisis, which is now threatening the first thousand-year target of the UN, which is linked to poverty and hunger. The UN's first thousandth anniversary of the food crisis is becoming more and more distant. Far more now than 900 million people are internationally starving. It's completely irreproachable. The most demanding issue in our relationship with the EU now is the Services Directive. Norway is a high-cost country. Those who work and live in Norway have to make a lot of money compared to workers in countries around us to pay their bills. At the same time, income differences in Norway are increasing. Many more than we think have pay and work conditions that make revenue weak compared to our particularly high cost level. Those who depend most on income have their jobs in low-skilled or low-skilled occupations in the labour market. Those who work in such industries, with small income opportunities, feel less valued by society. Continuing these developments, Norway is moving towards a society with differences between people who are similar to countries south of Europe, or even worse: the United States. That's why a generous economic relationship is one of the most important projects of the red-green government. The government has taken rapid action against social dumping. This is a job that needs to be followed up continuously for all occupational groups. It is obvious that the fight against unfair practices and social dumping is very closely linked. That is why the Red-Green Government in the Soria Moria Declaration also said that: ‘The government will work to ensure that the EU does not implement a service directive leading to social dumping’. On 28 December 2006, the Services Directive entered into force in the EU and EU countries have three years to implement the Directive. In Norway, we have carried out thorough consultation rounds. The hearings have given very many hearing opinions saying that the Government will not achieve its objective from the Soria Moria Declaration. The rule of law in the EU has been moving towards the worse since the Soria Moria Declaration. The four freedoms are being enforced more and more, and the result is the many judgments in the trade union movement now in the first name with: Viking Line, Laval, Rüffert and Luxembourg. Trygve Hegnar gave a liberating honest description of the judgments and the consequences of the Services Directive in the Financial Newspaper on Wednesday 22 October. Linking printer: ‘The Services Directive shall provide for the free movement of cross-border services within the EU and the EEA territory and is such that national labour law is governed by Union law.’;» [[...]] Further: ‘The LO, the Central Party and others who oppose as much free trade as possible do not like or fear is that when an EU company receives a mandate in Norway: [[...]] Hegnar has thus understood the same thing as is said in many hearing opinions, but Erna Solberg, in the October 22 issue of Dagbladet, tries to conceal under the heading «Hysterical and False». Hegnar continues to understand that the Centre Party and the LO are bursting, and encourages everyone in the business world to read the happy cattle of the EC judgment, which he describes very precisely as follows: ‘Market forces and free flow precede national standards and the interests of trade unions in protecting their own members.’ The view on the superiority of industry of social dumping is echoed by Solberg — albeit in a more obscure form — when she notes that the judgments have removed ‘discriminatory Western European labour and tender rules’. What Erna Solberg calls discriminatory rules, is therefore Sweden's demand that the Nordic model, without a national minimum wage, but with negotiations between the social partners, be the standard. In the Vaxholm/Laval judgment, it was established that Latvian construction workers are allowed to pay low wages in Sweden, because Sweden does not have a national minimum wage. In the case against Luxembourg, the European Court of Justice concluded that the national legislation on equal pay for equal work for both full-time and part-time employees could no longer apply to foreign visitors. Both judgments were given on the basis of so-called Community law, namely the Posting of Workers Directive. The Posting of Workers Directive, adopted in 1996, should be a minimum directive, in which the national State could have other and safer employment-related conditions. However, the judgments show what is crucial. These are the judgments which show the consequences of the directives. Social Hegnar is liberatingly honest when he does not try to obscure the relationship between the legal status created by the judgments, the Services Directive and existing Community law. Linking printer: ‘Everything LO wants and thinks they can implement in Norway is therefore prohibited under EU law.’ And the happy editor concludes: «The stakeholders in LO and Sp have only one option and it is to stop the Services Directive.» The centre party only disagrees with Hegnar in one decisive aspect of this management article, and it is whether industry has something to rejoice about if we accept more raw competition in the labour market in Norway. I know many seafaring entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and business owners in small and transparent communities around the country who want to compete in a healthy market, where after hard work they have the opportunity to get decent income and offer their employees decent pay and employment – i.e. participate in business and labour market with a competition that they see as fair. Business is also made up of all those who live by the ideal that you have to do your duty to claim your right. Such a society must be based on a well-regulated community between the employer and the employee. It is the very foundation of the Nordic welfare model, and it has been created through long-standing, wide-ranging political mobilization. Therefore, everything points to the fact that the Centre Party will recommend veto to the Services Directive. Putting the EEA Agreement at risk is unnatural for the simple reason that it would drive the Norwegian public even further away from the EU than it already is. That is not what the European Union deserves. Let me give you an example: when the Swedes negotiated the EU membership agreement, they did not get any exemption from the introduction of the euro. However, the Swedes remained outside the single currency when they said no to the euro in 2003. Leadership in the EU so that trying to outrun the Swedish public opinion would drag Sweden further away from the integration project. 90 pst. by the Norwegian population, in polls, they said that they wanted to maintain the Norwegian fall-back institute. It created a political pressure here at home that was heard in the EU, and the EU did not see any point in overcoming Norway. Where do I want to go? Yes, I would challenge the perception that someone in Norway is trying to create, that it is almost impossible to say against Brussels, and that the consequences are very negative for Norway as a country. History shows that it is wrong for political leadership and public opinion to gather the forces. Finally, today the world is in the midst of a financial crisis in which elected management is systematically working for more stability and security. Especially in this quotation, it will be the opposite of clever political craftsmanship to facilitate an even stronger competition for people's labour, a competition that is perceived as unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e351	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an interesting presentation. The introduction with focus on Iceland made an impression. The left is fully behind all the measures taken by the Government to help the country. 300,000 Icelandics have to notice that the neighbor cares when it's on the ground. I think we have to show what Nordic solidarity stands for in practice. As for the outbreak of war in the Caucasus, I share the Foreign Minister's assessment of Russian foreign policy. An aggressive use of language that warns a stronger policy against neighbouring countries that used to be in the Soviet Union is discouraging to hear in today's Europe. We should therefore support the EU's efforts to get the conflict into a political path. A normalisation of relations with Russia will be in everyone's interest. At the same time, we must demand that Russia comply with its commitments as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, as a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and as a central partner of NATO and the EU. Even we should do everything we can to keep all channels to the Russian authorities open. Regardless of the economic situation in Russia's relations with its surroundings, we should ensure that practical cooperation with Russia continues in the north. I believe that we have good conditions to cope with this, as we have a solid and orderly cooperation with Russia in this area. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also indicated that not only the EU but also the Council of Europe and the OSCE have proved to be useful instruments for dealing with the situation in the Caucasus. I think that's very positive. This, I believe, underlines the importance of having integrated structures in place when crises of this type report. The left fully supports the government's financial support for Georgia. The government has investigated the Services Directive very thoroughly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the Government will now go through all the calls from the consultation round in depth before taking a final decision on the Directive. This is good. But there is at the same time a lot of evidence that the government is struggling with a great deal of internal disagreement in this matter. With this thorough treatment of the Services Directive, it thus begins to look as if the Government would buy out some time. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that those working for the directive internally in the Government can count on full support from the Left. The left supports the directive because we see greater opportunities than problems associated with it. I react somewhat to the Foreign Minister's statement that the Government will focus on the rights of workers and our high level of ambition in the fight against social dumping. I find it strange that he fails to mention the concern of our service industries. They are large and growing, and it would have a lot to say for the Norwegian economy that they get the best possible framework conditions in the EEA area. Many suggest that the consequences of accepting the Directive are significantly less than the Norwegian debate can give the impression. As far as I can see, social dumping has relatively little to do with the Services Directive, something LO's legal department also seems to think. The Directive is primarily a deepening of the current Norwegian law – in force for more than 14 years. By contrast, the use of reservation rights raises fundamental questions about the EEA Agreement. I would like to refer here to Professor Fredrik Sejersted as Head of the Centre for European Law at the University of Oslo. He points out that the Services Directive deals with one of the four freedoms of the EU. Therefore, a reservation against this Directive could have a greater negative effect on the EEA Agreement than a reservation against other types of Directive. We heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs report on the EU that strengthens its asylum and migration policy. This is an area that is becoming more important in Europe, as more and more from the south and east enter our welfare zone. Norway, as a non-member, should therefore focus on close cooperation with the EU in this area — and work to maximise compliance with current Norwegian law. This applies, inter alia, to: the return directive. An effective asylum policy requires rapid treatment and good return arrangements. Today, there are different practices in European countries, which help to weaken asylum policy. I think it is good that Sweden has got a return agreement with Iraq, but for us this could mean more Iraqi asylum seekers. Our common objective should be the most coherent and appropriate asylum policy. I am basically in favour of the new ‘border package’ of the EU. It will be established, inter alia: an electronic system for the storage of third-country nationals’ entry and exit dates across the external borders of the Schengen area. The left also favours the establishment by the EU of databases for DNA, fingerprints and vehicles in charge of EU police cooperation. These measures may help to avoid the misuse of our asylum systems and may help the police to apprehend criminals. However, I believe that these benefits must be balanced in terms of privacy. It's very important. The intention must be to get hold of those who should not enter our country, or get hold of organized criminals. Ordinary citizens with minor offenses, such as: traffic fines should not, of course, be caught by these systems. I think it is positive that the EU has taken the aim of taking on an international leadership role in the field of climate and energy. The EU has set ambitious targets for CO2 reductions and renewable energy use. This makes the EU a valuable partner for Norway in these areas. Furthermore, it seems positive to the Left that two Norwegian research projects related to climate – carbon capture and storage and Svalbard as a research platform – are part of the EU research infrastructure roadmap. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that launching cross-sectoral strategies and legislative packages is a growing trend in the EU. This is reinforced by the growing importance of the European Parliament. To that end, I would like to say that the first is a major challenge for Norway participating in EU cooperation in demarcated areas, including through EEA and Schengen cooperation. The second, which is the growing importance of the European Parliament, is an opportunity, as it helps to reduce the democratic deficit in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e396	I would first like to address some direct enquiries in the debate. To the representative of Solberg, she was concerned about the ETS Directive, which we place great emphasis on, and which I believe there is a broad consensus on here in the Chamber. In this connection, there were comments from ESA that have made us review this. A new allocation model is to be assessed by ESA, and we hope that it will be ready as soon as possible – we share the ambition for it – preferably before the end of the year. That's the ambition. As for the Arctic, I think I understood the question of the representative of Solberg. The relationship is that we are very positive about the European Union's commitment to this issue, including in the European Parliament. I have even asked a hearing on that question. We are very concerned — along with the other coastal states around the Arctic — that the Arctic Ocean Act applies, and that it is important to establish it. So we don't need a new treaty to regulate what's going on at sea, even if there's ice at the top. Coastal responsibility, zones and continental shelf – it has to be established! That said, this area will need increasing regulation to deal with transport, resource development, etc. I can confirm that Norway is actively working with the European Commission to influence what they are going to present now with regard to EU Arctic policy. We are in close contact with key people working on this, and I agree with the representative of Solberg that we are interested in Norway and the EU moving in the same direction. Then there were more people involved in the relationship with Iceland. I'm registering, and I hope Iceland records – I know they do – that a total increase is behind Norway showing solidarity with Iceland in the difficult situation they're in. The working group that has visited Iceland is now producing its report. There is a very serious situation in Iceland, and there is no doubt that Norwegian and Nordic and wider international support will be necessary. I think it is positive that Iceland now chooses the broad perspective, which can give an insurance and a anchoring. This will be a good starting point for the discussions that will probably be held in Helsinki next week. It also applies to the prime ministers, who have this as their own point, and to the finance ministers and foreign ministers. Let me also say that I am planning a visit to Iceland by the end of next week. In the case of Iceland and the EU, the representative said that I had not mentioned it with a syllable. Well, I can take a few syllables now, President. There's a discussion in Iceland about the relationship with the EU. It has been over a period of time, and there is a great deal of attention in parts of the Norwegian environment about how that debate goes. We follow it carefully through our embassy, through our contacts and through Icelandic media. My assessment is that in the dramatic situation Iceland is now in, I don't think you're going to make a choice in that direction – right where you're standing right now. But that this is going to affect Iceland's discussion, especially from a currency perspective and a anchoring perspective for the Icelandic currency, I think we should be prepared for. What the conclusion will be is not good for me to say. Of course, if Iceland goes in such a direction, it'll matter to us. It will have an impact on the EEA Agreement, and it will have an impact on the analysis we are doing in Norway. I find it difficult to advance such hypothetical questions today. This can be done in more speculative discussions, but as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would say, we are following that situation closely. We're supporting Iceland in the situation they're in. We work with Iceland as an EEA partner. If Iceland were to change its membership, which they naturally have the right to as a sovereign country, we have to take it in and evaluate it thoroughly. Otherwise it was interesting to hear that the Progress Party, by the representative, Mr Höglund, is now really asking for a new debate on our membership, our relationship with Europe. There is a position the Progress Party has not had until now. It might be interesting to know what the Progress Party means, from other positions, about the relationship we have. It's going to be interesting to follow on. So I want to spend some time on the Services Directive. I woke up with Dagfinn Højbrätten – or, to clarify, to Dagfinn Højbrätten – today [[muttering in the hall]] But then I have to make a confession: unlike what Erna Solberg said, this case is not easy for the Government, and it is not easy for the Workers' Party. It is an honest matter that it is simple for the Right, that the Right is not in doubt, and that the Right was ready two years ago when the Directive was there. For us, it's different. I can reassure the representative Solberg that we haven't given up any things, either before the election or in the elections, and I think she will experience that in months to come. But we have a government statement that says that we cannot accept legislation that can weaken efforts against social dumping. We're serious about that. Many have expressed concern, many have engaged – and then we actually have time to figure it out. This was not necessary to be adopted two years ago in the EEA Committee when it is to enter into force on 1 January 2010. So we've actually chosen to use that time to get to know more, to understand more, about what this means. We've had a thorough consultation, external and internal, and now we're going to sum up and conclude. I would like to say to the representative, "Well, we could talk about the consequences without concluding." The consultation reports of all teams are available, they provide an overview of the consequences. It is not a clear assessment of the consequences, but it is there. In addition, we have implemented a legislative hearing, which is rarely done in the context of EEA directives, in order to also assess what the legislative changes required by the Directive will lead to for us. What's important when we're going to review this? Yes, point one: the economic importance of the Services Directive is of course important, and Norway's offensive interests. We have to take that with us. With regard to employees’ rights, there is an involvement among employees’ organisations. I believe that LO's four points are a very good starting point for summarizing this. The LO is talking about action against social dumping, whether solidarity issues can be implemented, and whether we can maintain the level of ambition. That's one point. Another point is whether the public utility institution can be continued. A third point is on national governance and that fundamental welfare tasks can be solved in public terms. And the fourth point is on labour law issues and whether we can continue the tripartite cooperation. We're going to give good answers to this. Then I heard the post of the representative Lundteg. I heard that, and I registered with interest that Trygve Hegnar now has a truth witness status in his analysis of both European politics and development and the significance of the Norwegian economy. It's an honest thing. I do not share that analysis without further delay. We must follow developments in Europe in all its dimensions. I would like to point out that earlier this week there was a decision in the European Parliament by a very large majority – over 400 votes against a little over 100 – which stresses that it should be made quite clear that the Posting of Workers Directive, which provided for these four judgments on which there is a great deal of discussion, does not prohibit Member States and the parties to the labour market from requiring better conditions for equal treatment of workers, and that there is a guarantee that Community legislation can be implemented on the basis of all existing labour market models. This is an interesting flow that we should also consider. This applies to the EEA Agreement – the second point of the Højbrätten was concerned with its emphasis today early. What is the consequence of a veto? I also find it hard to wonder about it, because we don't have exact knowledge about the consequences. Veto, the so-called reservation right, let's use it, it's real. It is included in this Agreement, it is located there, and it is not currently used by various Norwegian governments. This is a serious issue, because it is a comprehensive directive – which we must include – that affects a central part of the economy in Norway and in Europe. The idea of putting it out of play is essential. So it's about this being an EU matter. No, I don't think it's an EU matter, it's an EEA matter. It is about the EEA Agreement, and then I want to take the liberty of quoting the President of No to the EU, who has frankly and openly said, ‘The way to get rid of the EEA is through veto.’ And he has made a direct reference to a service directive campaign. Now he says that he has changed his mind about it, that it is a different tactic he chooses. But it was an honest thing in 2006 to say this, and I have also heard him analyse it more thoroughly. So I want to say that we have to include in the debate that for some people getting rid of the EEA Agreement will be an objective, and the Services Directive is a means. I think it's an honest thing if you have it as a goal. We have to include it in the analysis. The government is going to do its review of all the comprehensive material that is, balance the considerations that are, up to what we have in the Soria Moria statement, and what we have in relation to the principles and values that we focus on. Then we're going to conclude and make a good recommendation to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e433	The last thing that was said by the Minister of Foreign Affairs now was relatively clarifying We agree that the Services Directive has challenges and that it has some positive aspects. Then there's this with the right of reservation, which in the statement at least wasn't a problem. Now the Foreign Minister got hold of it. Then one of the main speakers of the government party here today says something that I understand that the foreign minister is taking a distance from it, namely that it is wrong that the consequences are very negative. For our part, we have lived in the error that setting aside such a central directive can have very negative consequences. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs will elaborate on this, and possibly go as far as to say that this will be an important part of the decision of the Government when it comes to concluding, after the professional evaluation of the success of the Directive for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e440	To the very end: I feel that it actually sums up what I said, that there are three considerations to take into account in terms of the Services Directive. That is the economic dimension, that is the issues we are concerned about and want to know more about the rights of workers and social dumping, and there are consequences for the EEA Agreement. The last two conditions, which have been thoroughly investigated, must be taken into account in that order. I registered the representative Lundtigen's posts. I've also heard the Central Party's opinion on veto in other contexts. We have to respect that. But the government is going to make its decision, and it must do so after a thorough discussion – there is no more hocuspocus than that. Then I am not the first to wonder about the consequences for the EEA Agreement of a reservation right, which is real – we have it under the agreement. But of course, there can be a difference between things and the importance they will have for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e449	There were two things that were said in the post – it could also have been tempting to take a line on the Services Directive and other things – that made me stumble a little. One was that the foreign minister said that they were now in discussion with ESA about the allocation plan. It is therefore true that the Government has not consulted the Stortinget about the new allocation model of the Government, it has just been said that you want a new allocation plan. Does this mean that you are currently discussing models with ESA that have not been discussed with Stortinget? This would be interesting to get an answer to. The second concerns work on the communication from the European Commission on Arctic issues. There has been a strong desire from us at Stortinget to be consulted in advance regarding recordings and what will happen to this. And then my question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will the Government consult the Storting on what policy will be in this area? If not much of the Storting's work on the big news of a more active European policy, a little fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e458	As the representative knows, the treatment of the ETS Directive is not my subject. But what we've been focusing on is responding to ESA's objections and making sure that the Norwegian system is in line with what ESA has said. I think I have mentioned it in the European Committee and in other bodies, but during the debate I will make sure to update myself so that in a later article I can provide a little more precise information about it. Our aim is that the directive should enter into force quickly, and we want, of course, the Storting to be well informed about the process towards it. I believe that in several articles and in various contexts I have emphasized the Norwegian view on Arctic issues and made it very clear. It may clearly be the subject of a debate in the Grand Duchy and the subject of an important part of a presentation in the coming days. I feel that there is a broad Norwegian consensus on the principles of international law and the law of the sea and the order that must apply in the north, and that is what we play in the EU. But of course, I want to find an opportunity to keep the Storting well informed about the recordings we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e467	I am glad that I achieved my desire to awaken the Minister of Foreign Affairs this morning. I can confirm that it should not be confused with a desire to wake up with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to in the article was the substance of the Services Directive. It makes me bold to ask some more specific questions in this line. The focus of the LO has been on four points: the Services Directive should not prevent measures being taken against social dumping. It shall be possible for the public relations institution to continue. There shall be national governance in key public sector areas. The Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation and important national labour law issues shall be taken into account. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that these criteria will be based when the Government now assesses and concludes with regard to the Services Directive and that we will be guaranteed that these conditions will be safeguarded if Norway joins the Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e479	I am satisfied as long as the representative does not sleep by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So we have a good debate here. I believe in my post that there are many assessments of the Services Directive. There have been many hearings. They go in a little bit of different directions, and they focus on different things. I stressed in my article that the four areas of LO are very well summed up – there are four topics of very central importance. I don't want to go into it any more now – it's four days since the hearing opinion came and the deadline was – but I think I've said that these four areas are absolutely central to the assessment you have to make on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e489	I am registering the Minister of Foreign Affairs' deepening of the Services Directive, but I want to come back to a question I asked in my post. I react a little to the Foreign Minister's statement that the Government will focus on the rights of workers and their high level of ambition in the fight against social dumping when assessing the Services Directive. I understand that he must formulate himself like this, given the disagreement of the Government. However, I think it is a little strange that in his presentation he completely failed to mention the concern of our service industries. They are large and growing, and it would have a lot to say for the Norwegian economy that they get the best possible framework conditions in the EEA area. A significant share of growth in the Norwegian economy and employment is expected to take place precisely in the services industries. Is not the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerned about this? Should this not be significant when he and the rest of the Government – overtime – are considering the Services Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e498	I hope I have not expressed myself unclear. I think I stressed in my post that the economic importance is of great importance when we are going to evaluate this. Norway has offensive interests in services. There are good service environments, they make money, they secure jobs, they help renew, they have a lot of knowledge – we could keep a long and committed post about it. I think we totally agree on that. So that meaning is central. The fact that the representative Larsen is surprised that I am putting emphasis on the rights of workers surprises me, because it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, as a mandate for any member of the government in this government. And I, as a minister of this government, have taken the task of following the Soria Moria Declaration and trying to implement it to the point and the point. It says very clearly that accepting legislation that weakens the work against social dumping is not our policy. We follow the policy we have announced. These are core values for this government, and not least there are core values for the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party's voters and the interests of the Workers' Party in shaping social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e507	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e510	In its full presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs initially focused on the situation for our neighbouring country and EEA partner Iceland. The situation for Iceland is serious. We must therefore now act on the Norwegian side and help our brothers in this very difficult situation. Although the government in the last few days to have understood the seriousness of this situation, the reactions are legally late, and questions can be asked about whether what is done is sufficient. Already several weeks have passed since the Russian side was on the track and offered financial help to get Iceland out of the lunatic. The Russians currently have huge foreign exchange reserves and no difficulty in contributing. For example, a loan to Iceland of DKK 35 billion, which has been suggested, could lead to both economic and political dependence on Russia. This can in turn have major geopolitical implications and also affect the interests of Norwegian and Norwegian allies in the northern regions. One is, of course, the availability of fishing resources and oil and gas in the north. The second is the change in the strategic picture by making an important NATO country economically dependent on an economic power outside the alliance, which, in addition, has a strenuous relationship with it from time to time. Iceland has been a member of NATO since 1949, but has never had its own defense. So after the Americans left the Keflavik base a few years ago, the country has been totally dependent on its NATO allies. Iceland was with its location of great strategic importance during the cold war. Now, however, it is the battle for natural resources in the area that is the most important, and it is no secret that the Russians want a very active participation in this struggle. However, from the point of view of the Progress Party, we will first of all show solidarity and solidarity with our brothers in Iceland in order to get the economic machinery of the country going. However, we should not conceal that if Iceland comes into a dependency relationship with Russia, we are facing increasing concerns about the geopolitical consequences that could stem from this situation. We therefore call for Norway to offer our brothers in Iceland a loan similar to that offered by the Russians. The Foreign Minister also touched on the outbreak of war in the Caucasus in his statement. I agree with the Foreign Minister’s description of the situation which is very dramatic ‘when two states of Europe are engaged in full acts of war on controversial political and territorial issues’. The reason for this conflict is complicated and complex and has many sides. I will give tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government who has shown in this matter the ability to see the various aspects of the matter, and who has had a balanced view of what is the cause of the outbreak of the conflict. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that Georgia is not without responsibility for the outcome of the conflict. However, there is reason to stress that Georgian provocations do not in any way legitimise the Russian escalation of the conflict with the use of weapons. The efforts to find non-military solutions should also have been intensified by all parties, so that the Russian military action could have been avoided. The EU and Sarkozy's efforts to achieve a peace agreement deserve our approval and support. The conflict in the Caucasus was also the main theme of the autumn session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, where the matter was debated for over two days. There was also a proposal to deprive Russia of membership of the organisation, which we distanced ourselves from. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that both Georgia and Russia must fulfil their obligations as members of organisations such as the Council of Europe. However, we would stress that dialogue between the parties through forums, such as the Council of Europe, can be crucial both to mitigate conflicts and to remind them of their obligations as members of such organisations. Proposals for the exclusion and isolation of Member States are therefore no way forward and may only have to be considered as an absolute last resort.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e535	In recent years, Norway has strengthened and deepened dialogue and cooperation with European countries and with the EU institutions. Such an active European policy is necessary for the protection of Norwegian interests and for the implementation of Norwegian vision. But also in global issues or conflict situations in other parts of the world, it is important that Norway cooperates with both the EU and with some countries in Europe. An example is the initiative taken by Norway with Germany in the summer of 2007 to strengthen disarmament work in NATO – an initiative that led the final communication in Bucuresti to stress that NATO will continue to work for arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. But even if we take questions related to aid or development, or for that matter the situation in the Middle East, it is that we talk to and confer with the EU and our neighbouring countries in order to achieve a common policy. This has been particularly true in the aid sector for many years. Co-operation on climate will be particularly important towards the Copenhagen climate summit. It is not unimportant that the EU, under the French Presidency, took the initiative to end the conflict between Georgia and Russia and managed to negotiate the necessary agreements, as well as to obtain international support for humanitarian action, development and reconstruction in Georgia. The forthcoming EU-Russia Summit on 14 November is likely to further strengthen the role of the EU. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that events in the last few months underline the need to continue working to expand and strengthen the Euro-Atlantic cooperation institutions. The future of the Balkan countries is also in some sort of Euro-Atlantic relationship. This will ensure peace, stability and economic development in a European region with a near-blooded history. The French Presidency of the European Union has taken the initiative to look at immigration policy, and although immigration is a national issue for each country, it is difficult not to see asylum and immigration policy in an overall European perspective. I was recently at a meeting of social democratic parliamentary groups in Europe. There was immigration one of the main themes. The debate fully illustrated not only that the situation is different from country to country but that there are common challenges at the same time. Of course, the debate was also marked by a great difference between north and south in Europe. It is important to distinguish between integration and immigration. Oslo city today has 107 000 inhabitants with a minority background. Many of them are the 2nd and 3rd generations of an immigrant family. Integration means that we all have a responsibility for their functioning in Norwegian society – through kindergarten policy, through school policy, through qualification, work and housing policy. But integration must also be seen within a European framework. In many major cities in Europe, young people with migrant backgrounds are growing into long-term unemployment. These are going to be an easy trade for fundamentalist movements. It is therefore important that the EU also takes responsibility for looking at integration and not just immigration and immigration. When it comes to immigration, we talk about asylum seekers, about quota refugees, about family reunification, so it's really a broken picture we're talking about. I also think I noticed that at the meeting I was at in Paris. I look forward to the announcement of the announcement of precisely Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective, and I think it will be an important message. Finally, let us not forget that part of the migration policy in Europe is actually also about trafficking. Hundreds of thousands of women and children are locked in from Eastern Europe, especially from south-east Europe, and from Africa and into prostitution. Some actually come from new EU countries, and other new EU countries are so-called transit countries. This means that action against trafficking in human beings is also important for the EU. That is why it is now also on the EU's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e556	I listened with excitement when the representative Morten Höglund asked what would be the Government's response if Iceland joined the EU. Well, at least you won't get that answer if a reader reads the party program of the Progress Party, where one has a non-position for EU membership. In many ways it reminds me a little bit of the ‘Yes Minister’ series, where the main character says: my job is to lead the British people, so it is my duty to follow them. It may well sum up the EU position of the Progress Party. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a statement, including: address the proposal for a new Asylum and Migration Pact addressing all the main challenges in this area. There is no doubt that this is a very important matter for Norway. The right has been concerned about this for a long time, and has promoted a year ago a proposal that the Government should present its own big message on Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective. We are very pleased that we also received the Government's support for this proposal, and that this communication will be presented during 2009. The right has been concerned about this because we see the importance of a unified European policy in this area. Norway is not a member of the EU, unfortunately, but is directly affected by EU immigration policy. Norway is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, part of the open area of freedom of movement in Europe through Schengen cooperation. Decisions taken in the EU in this area will therefore have a strong impact on us. It makes sense if we are able to arrive at a common framework. The EU, for its part, has the objective of establishing a common European asylum system by 2010. This framework is important for Norway to be involved in designing. Today, some 200 million people live outside their own country. In practice, all countries are affected by migration — either as countries of dispatch, as countries of transit or as countries of destination. Migration concerns us all, also as citizens of the different countries. It has both social and economic implications, and we clearly see its impact in important areas such as human rights, peace and stability in the world, trade and public health. National and regional legislation is affected and is also absolutely necessary. The Asylum and Migration Pact, recently adopted in the EU, is about what is perceived as Europe’s main challenge and is now the focus of most European citizens. The EU has recognised through this Charter that a European problem can only be addressed at European level and jointly. In brief, the Charter outlines principles on how migration is to be managed and, at the same time, the Charter calls on the Commission to draw up proposals in several areas, both in the context of legal and illegal migration, border control, asylum and cooperation with third countries. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was particularly concerned with border control issues. Of those who are sceptical about the EU, this can be very easily done as if the EU were closing its borders. On the contrary, I believe having common border control will make it much easier to have an open policy towards people who have legal reasons to come to the Schengen area and to Norway. Not least, it will be very important to pursue an integrated policy towards the Nordics who have a migrant background and who throughout the year have a need for visits by friends and family, because the visa policy that we have to pursue today because we do not have this system is discriminatory towards the Nordics who have family and friends abroad. A common system for this will allow us to pursue a much more liberal policy, and will be inclusive for people with a different background living in Norway. In 2008, the increase in the number of asylum seekers has been high, and we see that it has different causes. Not least, we are influenced by the policy of the Government itself. To the right, Norway will participate in international discussions and processes relating to the relationship between foreign and development policies and migration, integration and inclusion policies. It is no secret that the Right considers it a disadvantage that Norway cannot participate as a full member of these processes through EU membership. Of course, an observer status in different networks, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been involved, is good, but in no way sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e575	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time on European immigration and integration policies, including: Sarkozy's Asylum and Immigration Pact. It is commendable that developments are moving towards a common European immigration and integration policy, which can also have major consequences for Norway. I wish the Foreign Minister had also mentioned that the EU is increasingly implementing the immigration policy of the Advance Party and that the red-green parties are in favour of Europe. Firstly, the new Return Directive opens up for up to 18 months for asylum seekers. The Directive also states that EU countries can use prisons if they do not have capacity in closed asylum facilities. This is, of course, a matter of confusion, as proposed by the Advance Party to the new Norwegian Foreign Law. Secondly, Norway is at the top of the European Union in terms of granted asylum per year. the population. Sweden and Austria are the only European countries receiving the same number. In fact, Norway would be on the level of the rest of Europe, if the Progress Party had achieved a maximum impact on 1000 non-Western immigrants per year. years. Our neighbouring country Estonia also dealt with 15 asylum applications in 2007, i.e. one per million of the asylum inflows into Norway — one per million. It is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is following developments in Europe. I hope that the red-green parties will eventually also understand that Norway cannot pursue a smart and naive immigration policy, while at the same time Europe is pursuing a forward-looking party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e586	This harvest the world has experienced something that can be described as an economic tsunami. What was about to develop into a total collapse in the financial market, if a number of countries' authorities had not dealt with large rescue packages, has to go back to 1929 to find the husband. The most frightening thing is that no one predicted this. Last night the U.S. longtime governor, Alan Greenspan, said he was shocked that the money market had collapsed. How this could happen, he still doesn't understand, he said, among other things. at the hearing of the U.S. Congress. The consequences of the mistakes that have been made in recent years in the U.S. economy will be noticed by the whole world. It's infected into Europe, Latin America and Asia. Millions will be unemployed, and businesses will go bankrupt. I don't think many people have yet understood how serious this crisis is. But something is definitely clear. This has shown us that the world needs more politics, not less. This, in turn, has shown that the impotence of the nation state can have fatal consequences. All call for strengthened and improved financial regulation. The regulatory framework must be at a transnational level, for the financial crisis is international, policy is national. The role of the national State does not extend when the world is hit by cross-border crises. There is simply no way of resolving this type of crisis within the framework of the nation-state. The EU has built up political institutions for 50 years. They have a single central bank, a single currency and a single market, and political forums of power. However, the crisis has shown that the EU was not prepared for this either, and that many Member States were initially most focused on their own interests. After a while, Europe is now showing leadership. French President Sarkozy proposes closer cooperation and coordination of economic policies. In addition, the EU is showing the way by proposing reforms of the financial market and its actors, and is trying to involve the United States in this. The EU plays a stronger role globally than ever. Much of today’s regulation of the Norwegian financial market has been implemented by decision in the EU, which is again applicable in Norway through the EEA Agreement. Therefore, most of the EU will subsequently discuss and adopt it, becoming the law in force in Norway. It shall provide the EEA Agreement. As has been said many times in this pulpit and in the public debate in Norway – this means that as a nation we have a major democratic problem. The EU will now, in the weeks, months and years to come, discuss, investigate and adopt many directives that will regulate the European financial market, including the Norwegian financial market. Anyone who wants more political governance should be very pleased. The regret is that Norwegian votes do not fit in this process, with the exception of adopting all the EEA directives that may come at the end. There is no bold prediction to claim that it will happen, unanimously, without debate in this Chamber. We are therefore in the strange situation that there is a broad consensus in Norway about better and stronger regulation of the financial market internationally. That job is then done in the EU, i.e. our neighbouring country except Iceland. We – and they still will – will not be involved. Why not? We don't want to be involved because we're uncomfortable with the arena this happens on. We like that, but not that it happens in the European Union. So the Nordics are once again watching the Tribune, not because we don't like the game, but because we're not satisfied with the selection of the stadium. I'm sorry. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and timely presentation, which, despite the strict self-imposed ties that this nation has put on itself, is able to give Norwegian European policy content.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e609	I would also like to thank you for a broad and good EU/EEA delivery. I found the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be well aware of the width of organisations and institutions to improve Europe. We also know that the bilateral relationship with Russia is important, and of course it is also a glimmer of power that lies behind all European policies. And then it's just a little later that it's got the impression that we in Norway haven't cared about Iceland. No one can take any more mistakes than that when you look at what happened in ours, what the central banks actually did. From the Defence Committee, we would say that it was a security policy act to make billions available to the Icelandic Central Bank, precisely so that the Icelandic krona would not be weakened. Before someone started thinking about the financial crisis, we were actually out and doing it. We did it, not with big politics and a lot of newspaper headlines, but slowly, but surely the policy that the red-green government has set up, was easy to foresee that type of crisis and help the Icelandic people almost before the crisis came. Then, of course, we know that before that again, operationally – in peacetime – from Danish and Norwegian, we have promised Iceland air support after the United States left the country. But we see that the civil acts are actually important in European security policy. We now see that there is a game of relevance between the EU, the EU ESDP and NATO. Then we see that the Council of Europe and the OSCE are up and functioning, that they are, in fact, crisis solvers, actually getting things done. We should be happy for that, because without these institutions, without that lack, we would have been more naked to solve the European problems. Where Brussels, on the one hand, has been good when it comes to the EU, Brussels has been bad – at my discretion – through NATO to ensure European security in later times, especially in Georgia. There was more to NATO by having membership discussions, which were clearly outside the law that exists to become a member of the EU. In addition, we know that Russia follows what Norway has meant in this matter. Russia has also got what Norway thinks about the missile shield and not least the ABM agreement. This is noticed in Moscow. There has been a steady, good Norwegian policy on this, expressed both by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. Then you can ask questions about why Brussels is not surprised when thousands were killed in Chechnya. I'm not going to say that it wasn't a big problem that Russia went into quite clearly Georgian territory. But if we look at the UN proposal for Responsible Two Protect, there should also be proportionality in it. In fact, the United Nations sometimes says that we need to put the national state's concerns aside if there are any abuses that go far beyond what international law can allow. There was not so much pipe when the abuse occurred in Chechnya, so we should include that when it has to be balanced. So we know that one NATO country, Turkey, almost every week bombs inside another NATO country. The challenge for us will be to expand and go even further with the good cooperation that we actually have bilaterally with Russia. We know that we used to have a native language, a pidgin language, but a common pomor language, where one actually made sense when it was dealing. This should now be rebuilt. Over a hundred years, Hanseatics in Bergen, Copenhagen and, in part, Oslo did what they could to prevent natural trade in the northern region. This is starting to improve. We know that there are enormous possibilities for Norway and Murmansk, the whole Kola region, in order to develop proper trade cooperation. Perhaps it will be more important than large government transfers, which I also believe, but it is the Nordics and the Russians themselves that need to get this cooperation in practice. It is necessary to build rock for rock and not to destroy too large a government licence. The cooperation that has been has not been put on ice. The Committee was in Russia last week. Then we met the admiral who, together with Einar Skorgen, personified that it was actually possible to operate the crisis management that happened when «Cursk» went down. It was a big crisis. But our admiral, Einar Skorgen, along with his Russian colleague, was able to do that. In the thousands of homes in Norway, he showed that crisis management is possible, and it's actually possible between military personnel. We know that the new dimension that can come up does not need to be a Norwegian-Russia contradiction. He can actually become the environment on the one hand up against Norway-Russia gathering, if we do not take seriously the environmental problems that can come to the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e628	The Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course, gave broad attention to the questions in the Caucasus in his presentation. The Caucasus is an ethnic, cultural and religiously very complex area, and strategically embedded between two seas and three major nations, such as Turkey, Russia and Iran, it goes without saying that conflicts in this area have a significant potential for both dissemination and implications for international policies. The conflict between Georgia and Russia illustrates this in all its details. As a neighbouring country to one of the parties, this is a matter which is highly relevant to Norway and on which we must place great emphasis. The main lines described by the Minister of Foreign Affairs are supported on the right. We also share the indignantness we might be reading between the lines, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs indicates that in Europe one actually has a toolbox for use if one is faced with difficult conflicts. As the formerly superior party, I believe in this context that Russia has a particular responsibility to get out of this conflict. We all agree, I don't think – at least I haven't noticed that someone has meant anything else – that the best way to strengthen international relations needs to be based on dialogue. But in the event of long-standing situations of conflict, I must say that, once in a row, one is frustrated by the fact that the word ‘dialogue’ can develop to be like a flake. Dialogue must be based on trust. It must be based on a desire to achieve results, and the content of the dialogue concept must be read from the range of small advances that hopefully reach a goal. The conflict in Georgia can teach us later on. The conflict has been over there and over 15 years, and it is difficult to see that there has been some genuine desire for progress, at least on the Russian side. We should ask ourselves the question – and we should do it in the international community – if we could have dealt with it differently in the past. Could we have contributed to a more positive development? We have lived in these years with a Russian in favour. Did we perhaps get the promise in this overshadow the fact that they have in all these years viewed Georgia as part of their historic backyard? Have we failed to pay attention to the military structure, ethnic cleansing in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, obvious attempts to destabilize Georgia and its efforts to democratic development? These are issues of concern and perhaps of benefit to the other latent conflicts in the border regions between Russia and the EU. Of course, in the wake of a violent conflict, thoughts are brought to the military. We must do the same in Norway. However, just as important, not to say more important, is the Foreign Minister's emphasis on the need to continue working in our Euro-Atlantic relations. Here there is something unsolved throughout the political landscape, through the EU as a continuous, unresolved case. It is worth noting the signals that have come from the Progress Party. A party that operates on the Gallup, with a total of one third of the population, and that targets itself to government, should also be able to tell us what they think about the EU case and where the party stands on this second most important issue in Norwegian foreign policy. As a neighbouring country to Russia and with vital interests in relation to the further development of the north – and in and on its own in other contexts – we have been standing as a willing contributor, but still a spectator to the EU agenda. But finally, back to Georgia: the country needs short-term support, and I am pleased with the signals given by the Government. Economic ruin and 200,000 internally displaced refugees say so. In addition, long-term solutions in the field of democratic development and security policy are needed. If we don't solve it, we don't solve the conflicts over time in one of the most important strategic areas for us as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e654	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed migration and integration policy. He pointed out that some EU countries have provided so-called amnesties, i.e. practical arrangements that provide a more lasting basis for residence in the country. He added that some EU countries that have done this have received criticism from others. General regularisation of persons without a legal stay can stimulate human trafficking and illegal immigration, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs, adding that the EU is using considerable resources to combat this. But the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not say what the Government believes about this. An EU country that has provided so-called ‘amnestic’ schemes is Italy. Since 1982, Italy has carried out six regularisations of illegal foreign workers. The conditions for these regularisations have varied: in general, the requirement has been that you have a job and that you can prove that you have been in Italy from a certain date. All of these six schemes have resulted in Italy accepting half a million applications during these years. It is important for me to clarify that these conditions are not in any way comparable to the situation in Norway. We're talking here about a completely different number and a completely different situation. There are no political parties in the United Kingdom that have proposed similar amnesty regimes in Norway. In Norway, it has been found in recent years that we have between 5,000 and 10,000 people who live here without legal documents. There may be people who are victims of trafficking, people who have received a refusal to apply for a stay, or people who have never been registered as applicants, or who have disappeared in the process. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with the group that has long residence in Norway without legal documents. There are people who have lived here, worked here, preferably for ten years, without a clear situation. They are practically irrecoverable. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposed that in its work on the Foreign Affairs Act housing should be given priority in the assessment of residence on the basis of strong human considerations. It's something quite different than a general amnesty arrangement. I expect the Foreign Minister to see that difference. In other words, one cannot use the criticism of the so-called amnesty regimes in Europe as an excuse to close our eyes to the challenges we face in Norway today in the long term, which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, must have a worthy and clear situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e667	The importance of the consultation opinions on the Services Directive expresses strong scepticism in this respect, and many conclude that Norway should use the right of reservation. This is to a small extent reflected in the summary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. In the Central Party, we share views with all those who expressed concerns about what the Services Directive could have consequences for social dumping and for the organisation of public services in the future. We also believe that there is a lot of thorough evidence in the consultation rounds that justifies the fear the government already signaled on Soria Moria. An important contribution to the economic upturn in Norway in recent years is the contributions of foreign workers. We still need free hands from outside to take work with us. But it's going to happen under Norwegian pay and work conditions. There are also interesting opportunities for Norwegian business in the foreign service sector. It is not true, however, when the Right claims that this would be the greatest and most important consequence of the Services Directive. The report commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Trade from MERON Business Economics concludes that the direct effect of the Services Directive is an increased trade deficit for services with other EEA countries. The centre party has registered that some believe that the Services Directive will involve minimal changes to the current situation. If so, there was a reason to ask why forces in the EU have spent so much time and energy in adopting this, and why some in Norway – in so far as the same ones claim that the directive is almost inconsequential – are so eager to implement it. The directive is definitely not out of the question. Many effects will only emerge clearly as the European Court of Justice interprets the ambiguities created by political compromises. However, some effects are already clear. The ability to impose requirements on foreign service providers must be strictly justified as to whether fundamental social interests threaten so-called overriding public interests, i.e. order, public security, public health and environmental protection. This is the only consideration that can justify claims on foreign service providers, so that social and consumer protection falls outside. The supporters of the directive mean that this is unproblematic because we have the Posting of Workers Directive. However, we have been told before today that a number of judges in the European Court of Justice show that the interpretation of this directive does not prevent social dumping. The Services Directive also challenges the public sector, because it is not a clear definition of what is considered public services. When the Directive was adopted, some services were removed from the original proposal for a directive because it caused too much fragmentation. Later, in May 2006, the EU Council of Ministers adopted an addition to the Directive on the ongoing review of energy and water supply, mail and education against the rules of the Services Directive. Health was excluded, but the European Commission is not known to give up, so the Health Directive is now available. The Services Directive is a dynamic legal and policy development in the EU that is moving in an increasingly market-liberal direction. These developments are increasingly worrying in the EU, including those who have previously been loyal to EU cooperation. It is important to facilitate trade, including in the case of cross-border services. But in the Central Party, we have a justified fear that the Services Directive will have significant negative consequences, and in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e695	Economic integration without safeguarding the social dimension is impossible in a democratic Europe. European leaders know that, and it is also a desire to achieve social integration in Europe. Differences in pay and working conditions in Europe are considerable, as has been the case in many countries in the past. Then it will be a challenge to combine professional rights with the free movement of goods and services in Europe. These are people concerned about. People are concerned about the danger of social dumping. This is a concern that we take seriously and that we are going to take seriously. That is why we need to take the time we need to go through the concerns and to examine to what extent a service directive would be a threat to professional rights in Norway. The government has had a consultation process on this, and there are consultation notes to go through. But from the Labour Party we will never accept a directive that allows for social dumping. In Norwegian and European trade union movements – and I can also add to the political left-hand side both in Europe and in Norway – we have a deep concern about the consequences of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, which are about professional rights and to which others have referred before me. I noticed that the representative Lundteg quoted what I would call Capital Editor Trygve Hegnar's wet dreams of a liberal Europe, and interpret this as an analysis he shares. From my point of view, I would like to look at what others are saying about this, and I think that the European Parliament is a good interpreter of what is meant and of what is going to be the processes in relation to both the Services Directive and the Posting of Workers Directive, which is the relevant directive for these judgments. Let me quote – this is a Danish translation – from the decision taken this week in the European Parliament, with 474 votes to 106, which says that: "Considers that the purpose of the Posting of Workers Directive and the Services Directive is incompatible with interpretations which may encourage unequal competition between undertakings; notes that undertakings which sign and follow collective agreements are in a competitive disadvantage compared to undertakings which refuse to do so". Furthermore, the European Parliament states that: 'requires the introduction of the principle of proportionality in cases against undertakings which, on the basis of the right of establishment or the right to exchange cross-border services with full discretion, undermine working and employment conditions; considers that no questions should be raised in the use of professional actions to maintain equal treatment and to ensure proper working conditions'. Parliament also stressed that: 'to make it absolutely clear that the Posting of Workers Directive and other Directives do not prohibit Member States and the social partners from requiring better conditions for equal treatment of workers and that there is a guarantee that Community legislation can be implemented on the basis of all existing labour market models'. Furthermore, the EU Parliament reaffirms its commitment to: ‘that fundamental social rights do not rank lower than economic rights in a hierarchy of fundamental freedoms; therefore requests that primary law again contest the balance between fundamental rights and economic freedoms in order to contribute to avoiding competition to reduce social standards’. This is the opinion of the European Parliament on how to interpret their own adopted laws and regulations. I am more sensitive to the European Parliament than to the interpretations of this by Trygve Hegnar. However, this also shows another thing that is important, namely that in the EU there are always political processes and movements involving important conditions for Norway. That is why I regret that we are outside the EU and cannot participate in the processes and promote the views we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e729	I want to focus on the energy and climate perspectives that the Minister of Foreign Affairs addressed in his presentation. First, to the EU climate quota law. Last year, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also made a statement saying that Norway agreed to have a competitive framework for Norwegian industry. What one has seen in the climate quota law shows that it was not practiced, even though the promises came from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because one added to a climate quota law that actively discriminated against Norwegian industry. It pointed to the Right, pointed out the Progress Party, and we made alternative proposals. But the government didn't listen. Now it is gratifying that ESA has pushed the government on the defensive, and that an alternative model has to come up. I hope that the Government, when they present the final model, actually has a level playing field with the EU, so that we do not get carbon leakages or extra costs for Norwegian industry unnecessarily. The tight allocation of allowances is a point when it is actually possible to reduce emissions by using better technology. However, Norwegian industry already uses the best available technology in the vast majority of cases, in which case tight quota allocation does not have a single environmental benefit. Then there is only an extra cost or an extra tax on the industry that makes Norwegian competitiveness worse. The environmental gain could be achieved if the Government had used the allowances they do not allocate to actually make emission reductions. But when we see that the government just sells the allowances on the market, you don't get any environmental benefits either. The only gain you get in the government's allowance system is that one fills the state fund with money taken from the Norwegian industry. When one then sees the press release from the Labour Party's Tore Nordtun on 21 August, where he says that their view is that there should be no free allowances after 2012, and that he hopes that the EU will arrive at this as well, this is a signal that the Government has said that no free allowances should be allocated from 2012, regardless of what the EU says. I challenge the Foreign Minister to clarify whether this is actually the government's policy, or whether Nordtun here in his press release formulated by himself, takes his mouth a little too full. Because if it happens that Norway will auction away all allowances after 2012, we have a challenge for existing Norwegian industry when the EU adds up to approx. 80 pst. free allocation. I would also like to challenge the Foreign Minister on our relationship with the EU's energy needs. The EU has a huge need for energy imports, and sees Norway as a desired partner. We get many delegations from different European countries to Norway who want to discuss energy, environment and climate issues. However, the first and most important theme that everyone addresses is how Norway can increase its exports of oil and gas to European countries over the next decades. In spite of the EU's ambitious renewable energy targets, they have a huge energy deficit. When we then get more and more red-green politicians who say that we will in the future cut Norwegian oil and gas production, that we should not look any more, and that even political youth should be steered away from taking petroleum-related education, it is a serious signal to the EU. Because it is not done overnight to replace the oil and gas production that we have today with renewable energy. If we, for example, will take the oil and gas production adopted and extracted in Norway over the next few years, it will have to be replaced by 254 000 windmills in order to receive the same amount of energy. 254,000 windmills represent Norway’s oil and gas production. And if one includes the findings that are not yet made, and the potential reserves that are not yet usable because they are too small or too far away, there are another 344,000 windmills. This means that one must build almost 600 000 wind turbines in Europe to replace Norway’s oil and gas export potential to Europe. It is not done overnight in the EU, nor is it likely to be profitable. I would ask the Foreign Minister to give a guarantee both to Norway and to the EU that a petroleum policy is different from that of more and more red-green politicians, so that we have a realistic energy approach to the EU and not just wishful thinking. But don't get me wrong, I don't argue that we're not going to bet on renewable energy, but one has to do it in a proper way. We have a huge potential in unused Norwegian hydropower, small power, wind power and bio. What is needed is not further objectives, but instruments. We have a government that is now just rattling out the energy message. I hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can take back to his government that there is an alarming need to get an energy message and an oil and gas message that can both outline our future in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e749	The Foreign Minister’s statement shows that Norway’s participation in EU cooperation is growing with undiminished strength. In recent years, cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs has developed most strongly, both in scope and depth, a development that will continue. We are seeing a development in which cooperation in some fields is increasingly involved and has contact areas for cooperation also in the internal market. Many have affected Iceland's economic situation in the debate. The crisis in the country has strengthened the debate on the Icelandic krona is sustainable as the Icelandic economy has evolved. Now we have unfortunately got the answer, abruptly and brutally: it wasn't. Iceland has long explored the possibilities for introducing the euro in Brussels, but the answer has been clear: then you must join the EU. The acute crisis has therefore given new impetus to the Iceland membership debate. The polls show overwhelming support for replacing the krona with the euro. A referendum has been proposed if they are to apply. From the EU, the signals are clear: welcome to us. If Iceland wants to join, the negotiations will go quickly. We can have our doubts about what Iceland will do when they get solid economic ground under their feet. But at least we cannot ignore the fact that they are applying for EU membership because they will not consider the crown more sustainable after the past few weeks’ experience. In this case, Norway and Liechtenstein will be left alone to create a whole new situation in the EEA. It also creates a new situation in EFTA, which in case will only have three Member States. Now more can happen in EFTA. For some time now, the Faroe Islands have explored the possibilities for membership, which Denmark has opened up to. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee had a delegation on the Faeroe Islands last week. We met representatives from Løgtinget and the government who made a significant effort to convince us that the Faeroe Islands should join EFTA. This desire has led the EFTA Council to review the future of EFTA in the light of two possible scenarios: that one Member State leaves cooperation for the benefit of the EU and that new ones can come in. It's a useful exercise. But I also think we should be at home to see in our eyes that in a year or two we can be in a situation where Iceland is applying for EU membership and the EEA Agreement becomes somewhat thinly staffed on our side. The EEA Agreement is Norway's most important international agreement. It forms a foundation for our foreign economy. It gives us opportunities for wide international participation in a number of areas. This is the cross-political agreement. Therefore, it should also be a common task to think through what it may mean for the EEA Agreement and the institutional structure on which it rests, whether Iceland gathers about EU membership in order to obtain a currency that does not risk shipwreck in the next international financial storm. I therefore share Mr Höglund's wish that we should think through such a situation. But it is interesting that Høglund primarily missed the signal that – and I think I quote him correctly now – «The government will lead us through such a challenge». It is not often felt that the Progress Party calls on the Government's leadership. It is interesting that he believes that it is this government that is going to lead us through such a situation, because it is probably a few years ahead. But what is the Progress Party’s assessment of the impact this should have on Norway’s relationship with EU cooperation? After all, one important thing, namely that the fear of affecting the EU theme must be overcome in Norway, and the time has come. Here, perhaps, Højlund spoke primarily to his own people. Several have affected the four judgments that have raised concerns about trade union movement throughout Europe. However, these judgments have not been passed on the basis of the Services Directive, which has not yet entered into force. They have been issued on the basis of the Posting of Workers Directive. The judgments have also raised concerns in the European Parliament, as the representative of Per Rune Henriksen pointed out. On Wednesday, therefore, a decision was taken by an overwhelming majority to ask the Commission and the governments to ensure that the Posting of Workers Directive is clarified so that for the future it cannot be interpreted by the Court that it may take precedence over important social considerations in the labour market and the right of trade union movement to take care of employees' interests. The Services Directive has been carefully assessed and analysed – and commented on. My assessment is that the four conditions LO have pointed out can be answered positively. The thorough reviews show that the Directive does not prevent the fight against social dumping. What is sad is that we were absent when this debate took place in the European Union and in the European Parliament two to three years ago, a debate that led to major changes to the directive, a European trade union movement described as a great victory, whereas we now have a discussion in Norway that is really about whether to risk shutting Norwegian service industries out of the internal market, with 500 million people and 30 countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e777	Towards the end of his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we have started negotiations with the EU on new financial contributions to economic and social cohesion in the EEA. Then comes the sentence: ‘The negotiations will be demanding’. It is, I think, in the diplomatic language of the Foreign Minister the same as saying: in these negotiations we have very weak cards on hand, possibly no cards on hand. We saw this quite clearly the last time we were through the same process, and that of course illustrates the problem of the EEA agreement: we have a static agreement that was adapted to a situation 15 years ago, in the 1990s, while the EU is developing dynamically at fast pace. It's in itself a problem. Furthermore, there is a problem with agreements where the parties on the two sides of the table are distinctly different in size and influence. At the same time, we sit on our side of the table with Iceland and Liechtenstein. It surprises me that this debate has not taken an interest in this aspect of the relationship between Norway and Iceland, namely that any use of the right to reservation against the Services Directive under discussion will not only have consequences for Norway – it will also have consequences for the other two, including the other two. Iceland, and probably consequences that for Iceland in today's situation are very little desirable. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is, of course, right when he says that the right to reserve is real. But I would add: in addition to being real, it is useless for all practical policy purposes. That is probably also why no Norwegian government has so far taken the opportunity to use it. In the last period, when I was on the Foreign Affairs Committee, we had very frequent visits from all EU candidate countries in the last major enlargement process. Communication was very interesting, as it progressed according to the following pattern: All representatives of the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Committee assured that it is in Norway’s interest that the largest possible European countries join the EU. Furthermore, it is in Norway's interest to help all countries wishing to join the EU become members, and that is why we are also on the way to the demanding negotiations mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now guests are per. the definition of polite people, but it could be seen that there was some sort of increasing wonder on the other side of the table as all these insurances were received — while knowing that it is inherently in Norway’s interest that what applies to all other European countries does not apply to Norway. It is a rather striking form of double political accounting, and double accounting is not particularly credible in any context. The Foreign Minister gave me an answer that should have been given in yesterday's debate on Nordic cooperation, because that was the post where he responded, and I appreciate that very much. But I would have liked the Foreign Minister to have gone into the issue a little more effectively, because the EEA Agreement does not tolerate significant changes. As the representative Svein Roald Hansen just said, if Iceland, among other things, Because of their currency situation, they are now well served to apply for EU membership – there is also an overwhelming majority in Iceland’s opinion to do just that – as Norway’s situation will be even more marginalised. And then the big question is: is this government, where the three parties live on each of their globes in the relationship with Europe and in the vision of Europe, at all, able to think the idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e790	We are facing many demanding and major challenges. The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed several of them in his statement yesterday. One of the conditions is the question of climate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs specifically mentioned two things that I think it is worth noting and commenting a little further. One is the capture and storage of CO2 and the other is the Climate Quota Act. And to take the last one first, I actually think it makes sense to admit that in terms of such extensive regulation and systems as the Quota Act is a choice, it's demanding to make adjustments. Solvik-Olsen said it was a pleasure that ESA had pushed Norway. On the contrary, I think it is a little regrettable that we have been pressured, because that in fact means that we have spent a longer time clarifying the conditions that will apply to Norwegian industry and to the investments that will result from the clarifications that take place. Then there is no doubt that the starting point of the climate quota law is good, very well adapted to Norwegian industry and the established industry. Then we agree that it needed some adjustments. But the starting point is very good. What's important about the adaptations is that they trigger investment, and we know that investments are on hold that are positive for what the law is really going to contribute to, precisely to improve the climate. Therefore, adjustments at my discretion are demanding and need to be assessed separately on a case-by-case basis. Then go to carbon capture and storage. It is a pleasure, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, to approve the aid scheme linked to the project in Mongstad. But there is also a tension in the fact that there were expectations or questions about whether an approval was granted, because if there is something that is absolutely crucial, it will be that there will be an interaction between the countries of Europe to get CO2 projects around that will be good enough, big enough, to deal with the future challenges associated with this. Mongstad alone is important, but the EU's position is very important, and not least the positions taken by EU countries in relation to similar projects across Europe. Here, I think it is absolutely essential that our contribution and our commitment are reinforced only by what we do here at home in order to produce similar projects elsewhere in Europe. Norway can and should have a leading role — and have — to involve others in similar projects, to follow a little in our footsteps. However, there is a starting point for concern about the signals coming from the rest of Europe about the effectiveness of similar projects. Therefore, our role must be to contribute to the establishment of the world's implementing power through the commitment we have in Europe. That role, I think, is incredibly important. As a nation, we have many possibilities. Through what has been created through the political debate over the last few years, and not least through what is now happening in Mongstad, industrial projects are actually in the process of getting up in Norway. I think it's worth noting, because it'll also be essential to get industrial projects related to CO2 capture and storage, not only energy projects, but also industrial projects. Norwegian industry will, but then we're dependent on getting an engagement in Europe, because basically it's where investment decisions are made. That is why our contribution to this impact is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e814	In a foreign policy debate on EU and EEA matters, it is appropriate to recall the importance of the EEA Agreement for industrial development and for Norwegian industry. The EU remains our main trading partner, and the EEA Agreement gives Norway access to the EU's internal market, which of course is of great importance to our exporters. It also gives us good access to international research programmes and participation in key cooperation venues. An example of that is space travel. The government strongly advocates space travel and that Norway should be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by space. Participation in space programmes in the European Space Agency ensures access to technology and triggers a number of contracts and assignments for Norwegian high-tech enterprises. A nice example of Norwegian industry’s delivery may be the fact that ship traffic on the Danube is navigating by equipment produced by Kongsberg Seatex in Trondheim, which in turn has subcontractors elsewhere in the country. The space industry is therefore technology-driven activities, which have a great value-creating effect in many places in our country. During the European Interparliamentary Space Conference in Praha the other day, it was impressive to hear the reputation of leaders of Norwegian high-tech companies in the European space environment. However, it was also striking to note the EU-focused European parliamentarians and how busy they are — naturally — to get businesses from the new EU countries involved in the various industrial programmes. It therefore says a lot about how important it is that we are offensive from the Norwegian side and enter into agreements that facilitate the development of Norwegian business. The northern regions constitute a very important territory for the space industry. Norway has an ideal geographical location for exploration of the atmosphere and the nearby space. The low population and the spread of settlements in the north, combined with the large land and sea areas, also make Norway much use of space. Satellite technologies are important in navigation and monitoring of maritime transport, while at the same time central to day-to-day resource and environmental monitoring. Better surveillance enables us to reduce environmental crime more and more frequently at sea. We can also react faster and better in the event of accidents. In the rapidly growing world market for space technology, there are good opportunities for Norwegian business, and this is also the focus of this year's proposals for government budgets. Let me conclude by saying that I am very pleased to hear the signals that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made regarding border crossings at Storskog. When the Business Committee was travelling in Finnmark this spring, we were told about the problems they have with a labour market that is characterised by low mobility and high demand. We were told how important it is for business with flexible and efficient arrangements, and the ambitions of the Council of State to facilitate easier ways of enforcing the control of Schengen's external borders in the north are therefore very good news.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e829	The world gets smaller, we travel more and the borders are more open on land and online. This gives us new challenges in the fight against crime. Cross-border crime causes huge economic losses to individuals and society. It may undermine safety and stability in everyday life, and it is advanced and professionalised to such an extent that it may be extremely complex to detect. This means that effective countermeasures must be developed at all times. It is important that Norway participates in international cooperation in the field of justice. Among the multinational arenas, Europe and thus the EU are important. Our agreement with the EU on participation in Schengen cooperation is the most important and comprehensive judicial agreement of this nature. The police’s ability to prevent and solve crime has improved after Norway has concluded agreements with the EU to participate in both Europol and Eurojust, which are the EU Police and Public Prosecutor’s Cooperation Bodies. We are also linked to the EU Conventions on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. This is how we now have both legal bases and the necessary tools for resolving organised crime issues. By also participating in the EU External Border Control Coordination Body, Frontex, we are involved in an important effort to prevent cross-border crime. Work on organised, cross-border crime is now a major priority in the EU. The fight against drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and prostitution, as well as money laundering from such crime, must take place in an international context. From the Norwegian side, we also worked intently to reach agreements with the EU and individual countries on the transfer of settlement prisoners, so that they can be moved from Norwegian prisons to prisons in the home countries. I want to focus a little more on one of the international agreements for police cooperation in which the Government wants to participate, namely the so-called Prüm Agreement. The Council of State was so far within it in its presentation yesterday. During the French Presidency of the EU, Norway also hopes to be part of this agreement. The cooperation provided by the Prüm Agreement clearly improves the possibilities for cross-border police cooperation in relation to today's opportunities. The agreement creates new framework conditions, both legal and technical, which improve and streamline the police’s efforts to prevent and investigate crime, including terrorism. The absence of controls at the internal borders of the Schengen area also calls for police and prosecution cooperation mechanisms in order to effectively combat crime. In summary, the Prüm Agreement contains rules for participating countries to have access to directly search each other’s DNA registers, fingerprint registers and car registers, as well as rules for joint police actions and the exchange of information in connection with major terrorist prevention events. The Prüm Agreement requires all participating countries to have a national DNA registry for investigation. No central base is created. Participating countries shall allow other participating countries to search for criminal offences directly in the registers. The applicant will only be informed if there is a matching DNA profile or not. If you get a hit, you have to contact the country in whose register you got a hit. It is this country’s national rules, including general rules on legal aid, that will determine whether additional information can be provided. The Prüm Agreement lays down rules on the unsolicited exchange of personal information in order to prevent criminal offences and to maintain public order and security at major events, in particular sporting events and European summits. The exchange of information shall take place in accordance with the national rules of each supplying country. Today, the Schengen Agreement only provides for exchanges and information to prevent and investigate criminal offences, not to maintain the order and security of major events. However, in the Nordic police cooperation it follows from the police cooperation agreement that information can also be exchanged in order to protect the general order and order. Prevention is strengthened by the Prüm Agreement. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of international police cooperation to combat crime at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e863	Let me start by saying that I think the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs yesterday was good and interesting. Not least the considerations the Minister of Foreign Affairs had regarding Russia are important, and perhaps especially important for us who do not live in ‘Tjuk-Norway’, but in the narrower part of the country. Of course, with a high degree of closeness to Russia, Norway’s relationship with that country will be crucial and important in everyday life, not least in terms of policy issues and how to deal with them. Furthermore, I am also pleased that there is a relatively great deal of time devoted to Schengen cooperation. At my discretion, Schengen cooperation is a challenge for Norway, not least on the basis of the fact that we are a small country with a large area and a long outer border. This means that we are temporarily put to the test when it comes to doing our job in full as well as it should be done. I am also pleased that Norway has now found it opportunistic to contribute to FRONTEX, which I believe will be an invaluable tool. Unfortunately, there have been examples of people's mass influx problems in southern countries, and I think, unfortunately, that they have sometimes turned their backs on and hoped that it would pass. This means that you have not taken on the responsibility you have, and you have had a problem with – let's call it literally – moving on to another country. I therefore believe that this is not in line with the main elements of the Schengen Agreement. In this way FRONTEX will be an invaluable tool to help those countries that are exposed to such mass migrations actually do a better job than they are able to do today. I have also registered – if it is allowed to include such a comment here – that there has been a certain nuance between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the view of Svalbard when presenting the access to identity control there. So far, I want my vote to go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, provided that the description is correct. The councils were also involved in the Prüm cooperation. I think it's absolutely crucial. Norway is not an isolated, small country. We're part of the rest of the world -- I guess that's no news right -- but yet, of course, it's also true in a criminal policy perspective. Crime knows no borders. In this way, cooperation will be the key to combating it. I think the worst thing that can happen to us is if we lose that fight, and that those who commit crime on a large scale, especially perhaps financial crime, will be able to money-launder these funds and plow them back into legal activity. Then we kind of lose some of the values of what is the legal operation, the ordinary operation, because others get into the position unfairly. But you get a lot of access to money laundering. That means you need good tools to fight that kind of crime. At the same time, I would also like to say to what my colleague, who was also involved in accessing other countries, that I think it is very important to ensure that the various registers have the necessary quality. It is well known that even within the EU there is a different perception of the quality of the different systems. I seem to recall that the EU has just had a small round with Bulgaria and its ability to follow up some of the expectations that the EU has for them. One of the concerns, of course, is to extend and cooperate widely in combating crime, to provide sensitive information to the wrong person. Then such cooperation will actually turn negative rather than positive, so in that way it will be very important, at my discretion, that you focus on qualitative conditions around them, and that you always think about legal certainty in relation to who will have access to this. Of course, what is positive is that Norway can contribute more. I think it is a fact that Norway has been a state that, in terms of police cooperation, has received much knowledge and information, but perhaps to a lesser extent has been able to contribute the other way. I hope that this cooperation can actually help to swing the pendulum the other way. It will give Norway greater recognition outside, and it will show that we also want to take our share of the responsibility in this type of cooperation. Finally, I hope that the Foreign Minister, or whoever had to complain about the position next year, will focus on the exchange of persons convicted of crime. Police cooperation is good, but in Norway we sometimes have an overrepresentation of people without Norwegian citizenship who in some prisons complain more than the majority of the places there. If we can get a better exchange of people who are convicted, to the country from which they come, it will remedy the situation in this country, while at the same time providing those countries with an opportunity to show that they actually care about it and take into account the consequences of their own citizens doing outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e880	I would like to address one of the issues on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned, namely health. The proposal for a Directive on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare aims at establishing a framework such as: ensuring the free movement of healthcare and protecting the health of EU citizens. At the same time, there is a way of ensuring clarity in the right to reimbursement of healthcare expenditure received in another EU/EEA country and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, that this service is provided safely, efficiently and of high quality. With the increasing mobility we have, people may want to seek health care in another country. This may apply to people living on border lines, those living outside Norway part of the year, or those who come from another country and want health care in the country from which they originated. It is difficult to know to what extent patients will be interested in taking advantage of the possibility to seek health care abroad after a new legislation is in place. In many cases, patients want treatment as close to home as possible. We look for experience with free hospital choice here in Norway. Most choose hospitals near the home. However, in different situations, some people will need or wish to seek health care in another EEA country. It will therefore be a challenge to ensure that developments in this area do not lead to an increase in social inequality. It must not be the case that only those who travel and are granted rights related to patient mobility are those who are resource-resourced. It is important in this case to state that the Member States themselves have the right to organise and provide the healthcare they choose, and that this should be respected. One of the questions is the question of reimbursement and what it will be. It has been established that the reimbursement shall be limited to the amount of public health assistance charges in the home Member State, initially for all types of health. It is positive that there will be a clarifying regulatory framework on reimbursement of healthcare expenditure abroad, as long as it takes into account the needs of countries for planning and monitoring of their own costs and priorities. The obligation we have to put in place such reimbursement arrangements already follows from the interpretation by the European Court of Justice of the rules on the free movement of services. However, legislation will be easier to deal with than further development through the case-law of the European Court of Justice. As the possibility of requiring prior authorisation will depend on whether healthcare is considered to be hospital or non-hospital treatment, this will therefore be a very central distinction in the further treatment. As defined in the proposed directive, hospital treatment is what requires hospitalisation at least one night, to be considered hospital treatment. Other health services may also be considered hospital treatment. So here's a complex, concrete and large area that needs to be checked. So we can ask, how will this affect us here in Norway? Many of the requirements set out in the proposal for a directive to countries have already been met in Norway, for example: the protection of personal data, complaint procedures and the possibilities for damages to patients and the authorisation of prescriptions from other EEA countries. In the light of the ESA’s inception on the implementation of patients’ rights arising from the case-law of the European Court of Justice, Norway has begun to implement a reimbursement mechanism for patients’ expenses for health care in other EEA countries. It is true that both here in Norway and in Europe, too, the issue of patient rights is very concerned and that citizens should have the same rights. This is therefore not an enforced case of laws and regulations that we do not want here in Norway. Here we are talking about rights that users already have and that we should welcome. We're in the forefront. One example is the Norwegian bill on a national electronic core file sent out in two weeks, from the Ministry of Health and Welfare. So here we are in front of the European Union. The EU launches an exciting pilot project in 12 countries, with an electronic journal accompanying the patient. So here we are at the forefront. There is a need for Norway to ask the Commission to clarify the possibility of continuing restrictions on the recovery of hospital expenses in other EEA countries, including prior authorisation. Because within the framework of the case-law of the European Court of Justice and later of a adopted directive, we need to find solutions that balance patients' rights and the need for cost control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e903	I live in the north, work in the north, and I'd like to talk a little bit about the international profile of the Central Party. I would very much like us not to be left with the fact that the Central Party has today only talked about the Services Directive, because we actually have many other dimensions in our policy. I do belong to the group that might be called pragmatic EU opponents. In fact, I am very interested that we are going to cooperate with the European Union in all the good things. It brings me into the Arctic environment. In the past, there has been talk of the EU's desire to take an active part in the Arctic. I warmly welcome them, because the environment in the Arctic waste site, as I shall call it, is a disaster. In this case, a clean-up is required, at the same time as contracts are required. The EU has a very interesting development in REACH negotiations, which is based on environmental regulations. I would like these to enter the Russian environment. When it comes to discussing with our Russian friends, we need to show strength. We have to have weight when we're discussing, otherwise they get confused. My message to you today is simply the Arctic garbage dump. While we are discussing our national guidelines on climate allowances and emissions, this is something that goes far beyond borders. For example, China is now spewing environmental toxins in amounts across the Amur River and over the Siberian River. It affects the indigenous population living in Arctic areas. This is about human rights issues. It's about the health of the people who live there. Locally up there we see thousands of toxins rotting, and where the content says down to the bottom where people have stored their food, and once again goes into the diet. This results in severe health effects. This is about human rights. It's about the environment. It's about health. On such a cross-political basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is thus entitled to address this internationally. I hope that through our work in the Arctic Council we can now get on with this and put a lot more pressure on it. It is about the health of whole populations in the northern regions. It's about the Sami groups. These are the Russian indigenous groups. There will be a major report through AMAP – the Arctic Environment Programme – to spring, where this will be fully illuminated. I want us to first take a real clean-up in a problem that I, if anyone wants to see evidence, have numerous pictures of in my office. Pictures tell a lot more than a description of something. So clearing first and then agreeing through Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e916	The first thing I want to say is that this debate has shown the breadth of the debate on European issues, and I would like to thank you for all the speeches that have gone into the various areas on which my statement came up. I can't get into everyone, but there'll probably be a follow-up later. A few answers. To the representative of Solberg – quota allocation. There, legislative and regulatory changes were sent to the hearing on 16 October with three weeks of consultation. It's not that long. Thereafter, legislative changes will be submitted for approval by Stortinget. At the same time, we are working in parallel, not to lose time, with the notification of the ESA authorisation allocation plan. Subject to approval by Storting, Norwegian companies will be able to participate fully in the quota system, hopefully as soon as possible. The representative, Mr Vaksdal, said that we should give the same type of loan to Iceland as Russia has offered. The Russian track I don't want to add too much weight. I don't think that's what Iceland is up to. I think what Iceland is after is a broader, well-established support package where more countries are involved, and I can assure you that Norway is going to be in front of that group. To the representative of Thomsen, who had some reflections on integration and immigration and presented Estonia with his 15 asylum seekers as an ideal for Norway: it is not our policy. He presents a successful policy in this area of having as few asylum seekers as possible. We're going to live up to our international obligations to vulnerable people and do it in a way that we respect. Then I just want to give a reflection to the representative, Olemic Thommess, who says that the European Union is an unresolved issue. It is not a secret that I am an EU member, but the EU case was resolved in 1994 by the Norwegian people, and we are ruling in this government on the basis of a clear relationship and an EEA agreement. If this comes up again, time will show. Then the representative Solvik-Olsen raised the question of a quote from Tore Nordtun. I cannot go into what Tore Nordtun should have said about allocation of allowances – free or not – after 2012. What I want to say is the following – and this is a quote from Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007 concerning amendments to the Climate Allowance Act: ‘The government will work to ensure that the EU ETS is based on the fact that no allowances are allocated free of charge after 2012. Therefore, Norwegian enterprises subject to allowances cannot rely on the allocation of free allowances beyond 2012. However, this will need to be assessed in the light of EU policies in this area.’ I think it's clear what it's all about. Then I have 26 seconds left, and it's too little to answer the representative's questions and reflections about the situation with the static EEA agreement, as he calls it. My job as Minister of Foreign Affairs is to make that agreement as good and active as possible for Norway as regards the care of Norwegian interests. With regard to the views of the U.D. and the Ministry of Justice on Svalbard and identity cards, I would like to refer to contributions to the Evening Post on that matter today from two State Secretaries from the two departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e943	I was just going to comment on Per Olaf Lundtigen's posts. It is very interesting that four judges who have already been handed down on the basis of another directive are constantly being used to justify the veto against the Services Directive, i.e. the Broadcasting and Disposal Directive. That directive is now more than ten years old. Should it have been vetoed at any time, it would have happened ten years ago. That's what all these four sentences are based on. It will continue to be the case that, for one of the compromises that came out of the treatment of the Services Directive, the directive did not, in fact, include such regulations in this Directive. So one does not change the status of so-called posted employees and people working in other countries on behalf of a company in the home country. While it may be that there are dilemmas related to developments in this area, this is not relevant to the Services Directive. And I think that's something no-since repeatedly forgets to bring with them, if they say that we're veiling. We are talking about what is in the Services Directive – what we are actually going to adopt. And then when I say that we could adopt it, it's because I wasn't too early. I agree that there is no need for a faster pace, but the previous Minister of Labour and Inclusion answered me one month after this service directive was clear in the EU, that in the opinion of the Department, it would not result in the need to make changes or make it more difficult with regard to social dumping and the rules there. So that's the answer that was given at that point. It was the same assessment that was made on an ongoing basis before the final decision was taken by the Government. But after that, there has been uncertainty about what the Government falls upon. Now, it might be that a lot of what's said here shows that there's a process of maturation going on somewhere that makes the government finally fall on what's natural, what's right, and what's actually quite crucial for Norwegian business. I'm going to give all of them the opportunity of processes and all of the things around it, but just once confirm that we need this. We are entering a period of decline for Norwegian business – yes, for the whole of the world’s business. There's no reason for us to be on a spiral where we're perceived as more protectionist and trying to protect ourselves in some areas by saying no to participate in free trade and free services. The gain is significant if we get other countries to remove their regulations and their technical barriers to trade — because that is not the way Norway is. Norway is quite open. But both Poland, France and other countries are greedyly creative in blocking the activity of other countries where they can. We will have better access to this. Thus, there are contributions to more jobs and growth in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e954	When I signed on the list of speakers, I was not aware that I was going to be so late that I almost came after the summary, but I wanted to say a little bit about the Services Directive. I have a lot of compassion, almost, with the Foreign Minister, who has an incredibly difficult job in the government to balance the different concerns, especially when I hear the representative Lundtigen's defensive approach to the whole issue. It was also a little special to hear that Lundtigen hailed Hegnar as a witness of truth in a good deal of economic questions. That's pretty interesting. Norway is a small country in an open world, and we have a wealth level that is completely dependent on transparency, trade and specialisation. It would not be conceivable to maintain the Norwegian welfare level without taking the challenge in it. I believe that the Zenterpartiet and Lundtägen must understand that Norwegian welfare and Norwegian wages should be maintained higher than in the rest of the world over time, and that Norwegian productivity and efficiency must be better. It may be the oil shadow over a period of time, but we also see that in these times even the oil is not unaffected by what's happening out there in the world. Without Norway also taking the challenge of having a higher efficiency, Norway will not be able to maintain a higher wealth or pay than the rest of the world. In that picture, the term ‘social dumping’ is interesting. For what is social dumping, and what is it that is keeping others out of development? I think that could have been an exciting debate, but I haven't yet seen that anyone has managed to draw that line. Somewhere it goes, of course, but where? What's essentially my signal, is that Norway has a very good story to tell when it comes to adapting to an open world. We have been successful all along, and we have tradition of addressing the challenges that the Services Directive poses. Then the focus should not be on protecting the domestic market we have, as the focus should be on addressing the challenges. Then the possibilities are much, much greater than the opportunities offered by the closed home market. There's basically the fundamental discussion, and I wanted to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e966	I assume that Gundersen's compassion was well intended, but suspecting that it may be a broader motive, I would say that I do not need it. What we are now doing in Norway is a thorough process in which Norwegian society is told its opinion about something that is going to be very important, no matter how we choose. When we are not a member of the EU, we are often in arrears from many of the debates, because we do not participate in the legislative process. Now we've had time, there's been no reason to rush, and we've spent the time thoroughly. What I think is interesting is the representative's total – what to say – ease of mind with regard to the phenomenon of social dumping. He relates it to the question of whether we should protect the domestic market. That's not what it's about at all. The Norwegian domestic market is open, as European domestic markets are, with a level playing field for all European countries within the EEA territory. There are questions as to whether we can maintain an important part of the Norwegian political culture and labour market culture, which involves tripartite cooperation, which is at a level of ambition against social dumping. It is a challenge today, before the Services Directive is there, that Norwegian day-to-day supervisory authorities can visit jobs, go according to how the legislation we have is practised. Therefore, the Government has presented a package of measures 1 and a package of measures 2 and has a high level of ambition in the area of social dumping. I think it is only fair and fair, at least for this government – of course – that we should be able to give people good answers on how the area of social dumping, the fight to combat it, is being met by the international commitments we assume. We're going to give that answer in a way that will subsequently be presented as thoroughly investigated, carefully evaluated and well evaluated within the deadlines set.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e975	I must be allowed to react when the word ‘light profit’ is used for social dumping. That's definitely not what I meant to put in it. I have great confidence that we have a code and a control device that takes care of it. It is precisely in trust with what I believe the focus is on how we will further develop Norwegian welfare. Of course, that control apparatus and that code should follow, but there is actually a discussion about where the boundary goes between social dumping and keeping others out. There is a well-known discussion in relation to protectionism, among other things. That's all I said we should have a debate about – not that we're not going to relax, or that there's some slight attitude to social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e980	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e996	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1012	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1023	We are now considering the decision of the Financial Committee on the power to raise sovereign loans and to borrow sovereign debt. This is an extremely important thing in the turbulent times we experience in the international financial market, but also here at home on the mountain. The situation is also challenging for Norway, although we have legislation, guidelines, control and supervision that are well rigged to withstand a storm rather than many other countries. This is different from the United States, where loan intermediaries aggressively sold sub-prime loans without financial supervision and regulation. We have an expression in North Norway that we often use when experiencing challenges, and that is to ‘stand him off’. What is now promoted by measures is necessary for ordinary people, businesses and banks to ‘stand by’. It is important to make the flow of money in the money market work, not least in order to ensure that businesses have liquidity to manage their obligations and thus help to maintain employment and counteract increasing unemployment. I want to take this opportunity to praise the opposition for the way they have behaved in this challenging situation. There has been a great deal of support for the concrete measures, which I will come up with as a matter of course. Not least, they have behaved neatly in dealing with this proposition in a very rapid and rational manner in order to implement the proposed measures as quickly as possible. It is known that the scheme will enter into force on 1 November. It is therefore important that we keep progress in line with what we have signaled outwards. All parties have been constructive here. As is well known, extensive consultations have been held on this matter, including: with financial industry organisations. These have given strong support to the package of measures, in line with what they have expressed in the media earlier, when the Government presented the measures. The package of measures has been consolidated within the Committee and it is mainly unanimous. However, there are some individual comments and a proposal from the Progress Party that I will comment on a little later. It also reflects the fact that an overall committee has been very concerned that the around 20 banks that do not currently have access to credit institutions should be taken into account. The Committee requests that this be facilitated. The Committee also refers to the serious situation in Iceland and the importance of Norway having close dialogue with Icelandic authorities. I am very pleased with the initiative that the Prime Minister and the Government have taken with the Icelandic authorities, and that one is now sending over a delegation at the level of office to provide more information on what Norway might be able to contribute. The Progress Party has fully submitted a proposal on their own at the time of the submission, that the banks using the proposed package of measures are not able to implement bonus and option schemes and not pay dividends, and that the Government guidelines on executive remuneration are followed during the period they are in the scheme. I would like to welcome the Progress Party after. There must be no doubt about what the government parties think about options and negligentness in relation to directors' salaries and bonuses. We have been very clear on a number of occasions, not least when we discussed the ownership message. There may be reason to remind the Progress Party of what they said in the debate and in their own committee comments on the ownership notification. I have also had fun looking at what the Progress Party has said over the years in this case, where they have listened to our view of option agreements and management wages. The government parties have a note in their attitude that we expect the behaviour of banks' management to take into account the situation we are in. I would like to commend the Minister of Finance for her prompt dialogue with banking organisations to present the Government's clear message of moderation both in terms of management salaries and bonuses. The government has repeatedly stressed that there is a significant uncertainty about the development of an unstable financial market. Governments have reacted with targeted actions in this situation and are very prepared to meet other events that may require new measures. It is important that we do not over- or under-medicate the patient. Both things can be equally wrong. By that I mean to say that we need to have so much patience and clarity that we put in targeted measures that always hit the situation best. There's a lot of psychology in this, and it's important that we don't create unnecessary unrest or panic in the market through the way we behave or act. To stick to hospital terminology, it's a hardened pneumonia that started in the United States, and it's infected on, among other things. the Norwegian money and credit market. With this, I recommend that Stortinget join the Financial Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1055	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1058	I registered that the case rapporteur wanted the Advance Party ‘welcome after’. Then I was a little stunned, because is it so to understand that the Workers' Party has intended to vote for the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted, and on which the representative wants us to ‘welcome after’? If there is to be any content in this "welcome after" greeting, it must be that we have made a proposal and adopted a position that the Workers' Party has allegedly always had, and so it would be strange if the setting were to stand as a reality today as well and the Workers' Party is going against what we are supposed to want to "welcome after". I just wonder if this was a message of change in the vote from the Workers' Party, and that they are now going to vote for what they are very pleased that the Advance Party now believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1063	First, I would like to stress that these are not structural measures or conditions in which we provide State aid or guarantee or enter into equity, but this is to provide liquidity under normal market conditions. We're not doing it for the banks, but we're just doing it to maintain jobs, we're doing it to maintain businesses, and we're doing it so that – I kept saying – we get pumped blood to the heart so that it can still be exist. If we were to address other issues related to structural measures, as they have done in Sweden and some other European countries to get this going, we have said that we are very ready to assess those measures. We're very concerned that this is going to start quickly so that it doesn't further exacerbate the situation that is. We clearly believe that with the arrangement put forward by the Progress Party, there will be complete panic in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1070	First of all, let me say that I hope this is not primarily a debate on the desire of the Progress Party for the state to manage private enterprises. This debate should be about the financial crisis. I am pleased that the rapporteur stressed the important cooperation between the government parties and the opposition. I would like to say that, of course, we will cooperate in such a serious crisis situation – in which case we will cooperate across the party lines. This is not the time for party political games and tactics, but it is time for political leadership and cooperation. I have doubts as to whether the measures that have been taken are sufficient, but I am pleased with the measures that have been taken. I would like to challenge the rapporteur on the will for further cooperation both over the party lines and with the opposition, and also on the will to take new action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1077	To that I would say that the government parties have been very clear that we have a very high level of preparedness. The government has also said that if other and new instruments are needed, it is prepared to do so, and of course we are interested in having close and close cooperation. It's not time to play party politics, but it's time for us to have a coherent attitude on the issue we're facing. And I would like to repeat: the right has been very constructive in the job we have done in the Financial Committee in order to get an overall position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1082	I think I could sign on to every word that the rapporteur has spoken from the Chair, and will also praise him for the way in which he has managed the committee's work in port. There has been a very reassuring treatment. And then the representative Jacobsen came into ownership, and that's because there's a bank in which the state has a significant holding, that's DnB NOR. My question is: Will the representative Jamessen agree that the State that is a partner in DnB NOR should now also give clear messages in relation to what Jacobsen himself addressed, namely options, dividends and management salaries, and that there is a form of social contract between the banks and the state in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1089	I feel that the government has already given clear messages, whether it is the bank or there are other banks. The finance minister was when she met the financial industry's organisations, very clear and clear in her speech on options, management salaries and dividends in the situation in which we stand, and she did not distinguish whether it was the bank in which we had holdings or not. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1094	It is easy to return the rose to the rapporteur, who has helped us to have such a unified and consistent attitude that we have today. It has not been obvious all along, but that is what is being dealt with today, and it is also going to have a great deal of credit for that. What is called a crisis package, which is being treated today, and probably gets a unanimous upturn, are not, of course, measures to address all the problems we now see towering up around our economy and the economy of other countries, but it addresses a very concrete challenge, namely that our banking system has stopped, the cash flow between the banks has stopped. I hope and believe that this crisis package is enough to solve one problem. But all the other problems that we can see may require politicians to start looking at other measures that need to be put in place. Enterprises may have problems, and unemployment may increase. Is the rapporteur prepared to look with new eyes also in the budget and other aspects of political work in order to address these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1104	We have to deal with the budget at a later stage. I don't want to make any promises on behalf of the Government about what we're going to do in the future, but it's quite clear that we should follow the situation closely in relation to the challenges that may arise, and I'm pretty sure the government is taking the situation as seriously as we are doing here in the Grand Duchy. I don't want to sign anything out in relation to the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1109	The representative Jakobsen claimed that the US money and credit market is unregulated. The Financial Committee has been visiting the United States, and we have visited, among other things. Securities and Exchange Commission, where we were presented with the comprehensive regulatory agency that works in the US financial system. It can be said that there are unclear mandates, that there is political review of the regulations that exist – that is correct. But I would like to know where the representative Jakobsen has his sources from when he can claim from the pulpit that the US money and credit market is unregulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1114	First, I want to say that both political expertise and economics in the United States have been very clear that there is a lack of regulation that makes this out of control. Then I see that the Progress Party has used a law from 1977 that the federal banks should, I kept saying, take into account to give housing loans to those with lower or medium incomes, and that there should be a significant reason that a person had many rotten loans. Let me say that from 2001 that law is used in a very modest way, and the loans that have been defaulted have essentially not been CRA loans, but other loans. One in four loans defaulted has been within that limit. That's not what caused the problem, but there are other borrowing arrangements in relation to sky-high interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1119	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1122	I registered the rose that came from the case rapporteur to the opposition, and I want to return it, of course: the case rapporteur has set up a good race for how this matter should be dealt with. I believe that, through the work of the Financial Committee, we have shown that we are willing to turn around and make sure that we in a group can land on some good conclusions. And it's just in a situation like Norway, and not least the world, is in the day, it's important to show political leadership, and it's also important that we, as politicians here on the Stortinget, can gather on some important measures. Clearly, what we are dealing with today is a big package. We're talking about 350 billion kroner. It's not trifling, to put it simply. These are measures that can improve the situation we face here in the country, but it is – as many have said – not that this is the only measure or the only time we have to discuss the situation we are in. Every day we're reminded of what the state is, not least through the newscasts. We've only seen Oslo Børs fall by now. It reminds us that we are in a situation that is demanding and that we are going to take on the highest seriousness. We have been consulted through the work of the Financial Committee, on the initiative of the Progress Party, and I would like to thank both the Chairman of the Committee and the Committee for the speed with which they are moving and for which they have been consulted. Then we also found a weakness in the package that the Government had submitted, namely that some banks would not be able to use the measures contained in the package. But through good, constructive discussions in the committee, we got in place a unanimous request to the Government, and I have registered that the Government has said that of course it should be followed up. I think that's very good. There is evidence that we are united on what is important in the matter. It would be totally unsustainable if we had a package that might have added to a discrimination. It's clear that with little time things can happen, but we've had little time and yet we've got this in place. Many feel insecure at these times. Many feel insecure about their jobs and their mortgages. When we're done with this package today, another big and important job starts, which we've also started in many ways, and that's that the Finance Committee and the Stortinge will deal with the government budget for next year. And just in such a situation, how many feel insecurity and are concerned, I hope that we can also see some of the same zeal from the position to find good action along with the opposition. We know, for example. the reporting of permits in the construction industry, we know that many industries in Norway are now struggling, and the outlook for the next year, based among others. The forecasts presented by the SSB show that we are meeting for a tougher year. Thus, at least the Progress Party will take the initiative, when we are about to deal with the State budget, that we get good proposals that can meet this situation, and I hope that during that debate we can also see that the position and the Government are willing to change something. We are now in a situation where the government has submitted a government budget – and I do not believe the government itself believes in its own forecasts for next year. Why do I say this related to this matter? Well, this belongs very carefully together. The measures to be taken by the Government and the Grand Duchy in the future are, of course, closely linked to the state budget we are going to deal with. The Progress Party is concerned that through that budget we can get to things that make everyday life easier for most people. Let me conclude with the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in this matter. We have made a proposal asking the Government to develop and implement a system that ensures that financial institutions using this package of measures are not able to implement bonus and option schemes or pay dividends in excess of risk-free interest rates, and that the government's guidelines on directors' salaries are followed as long as the scheme is in place. I've heard that the counter-argument from those who really are for, is that this is so hard to put in place. I am very surprised that you have so little faith in the Government, and so little faith in the 300-400 bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance that you don't think they can put in place such a system, if it was the will of the Storting. It is too weak that, as the rapporteur said, the Progress Party wishes to be welcomed, but is still going to vote against the proposal that is said to be very much in favour. If the Storting wants to have such a system in place, we can get to it, like other countries. I have not heard from other countries that the crisis packages that have been dealt with there have been significantly delayed by the fact that the demands of the Progress Party are being made. So if it's not just going to be empty rhetoric, I encourage those who actually agree with that proposal the Progress Party has promoted to vote in favour of the proposal. If you don't have any credibility in this area. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1146	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1151	This package of measures contains interventions that provide liquidity to the financial market. The package is not a subsidy and may prove to be profitable for the Bank of Norway. Nevertheless, it helps the market out of the difficult crisis of confidence that the market is today. The Chairman of the Advance Party has said that this crisis package is financed by taxpayers' money and that it is the bank customers who have to pay. I have also heard the Chairman of the Advance Party say that it is a bad arrangement because – she expressed herself this way: For every dollar you buy government bonds, you only get 90 cents left. This may be reason to clarify. Can the Progress Party clarify who they think is really taking the cost of this? Do they contradict each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1158	Now I am not President of the Advancement Party, but of course I will answer on behalf of the Advancement Party. It can often get a little funny when a representative of another party is trying to describe what our chairman has said. Of course, it's doomed to go wrong. But okay, let's relate to what's the reality of the matter. The Progress Party notes, and it is important – and I think most people actually agree with us – that it is, after all, the big society that is now standing up. The state is setting up. It's a huge package of SEK 350 billion, which is actually the same size as our entire social security budget and health budget together in one year. It's a big package. If this was not a positive contribution, the industry would not use the package either. It's clear that you're making it, and it's clear that you're taking some kind of risk – in the proposition, it says that the government still considers it to be a small risk. But one takes a risk, and it's not wrong that when one now ensures that these banks receive deposits, we get capital – such as: can be switched off in bonus schemes for directors at a later stage – already saying that you should use the package, we do not want that type of bonus scheme to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1167	Of all Europe’s crisis packages, the one presented by the Minister of Finance of the Socialist Left in Norway is the one that is the most marketable and does not cost taxpayers anything. Then I register that in this case, the Progress Party wants to manage the salary in private companies. I understand that the Progress Party would like to change the policy they have always pursued in this area. They have to do that. The right is where we've always been: private companies have to decide for themselves. But what is my question is this: Why does the Progress Party find that this crisis, where it is important to help banks, financial institutions and businesses, is the right time to address a matter of changing policy in relation to the management of pay systems in private enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1176	I registered earlier today that the Right fiscal spokesman was concerned that this debate would not be a debate on the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter, but I am very pleased that Svein Flötten then gives us the opportunity to focus on this proposal, even though there are many other parts of the matter that are also important. It is not the case that the Progress Party has changed its policy. Of course, private companies that are on their own feet and that are governed in normal times must be able to determine their own rules and pay and bonus schemes. We have no problem with that. But now you actually come and ask the state for help. That's the situation we're in – that's, the state actually has to stand up! I guess that's why we have a crisis package that we're dealing with today, which we're going to put in place. So, of course, it also has a cost for those who are going to use it. It's quite natural, we think we can make some demands. But this is a voluntary arrangement. Of course, those banks that do not want to make use of the scheme do not want the Progress Party to interfere in the management of the scheme. That, of course, is what we have done in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1186	About a year ago, the government tightened up the bonuses and use of options in state-owned enterprises. In this context, the representative of the Party of Progress expressed itself in the Chamber: ‘A public humiliation of top managers has been observed in Norway’s main companies. You can ask questions about who will be the leader of such companies if you are going to review that kind of public humiliation. It has become a detailed management of pay and bonus schemes for managers of large companies.» The Progress Party continues to believe that it is linked to humility and detail management when politicians comment on wages and bonuses in large companies, for example. in the financial sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1196	It is very possible that some people can perceive it this way, at least in a situation where there are very governance-interested politicians from the socialist side who constantly express themselves about relationships in private enterprises that have nothing to do with the state. We record that from time to time. But what's so funny about the situation we've come up with, here the state is going to set up, and we're going to implement a package of measures that everyone agrees on – and then the Progress Party says that then it might be natural that we make some demands. But then the parts that otherwise always like to interfere, suddenly won't interfere. So I feel that I'm not the one to answer. I rather feel that the representative of Lund Bergo should actually think about whether he is going to have a good conscience when, today after the vote, he has most likely voted down the proposal of the Progress Party and will explain it to his own voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1203	This raises some issues of a more principleal nature, because the package adopted today is a completely commercial, market-based package. That's not how you can get the impression, that the Norwegian people have started a crown roll to the banks and question a lot. On the contrary – this is a state store. You have a product to sell to the banks, which is huge security, and you take it for granted. To the extent that there is any risk, you take well paid to bear that risk. This means that the country is active in the market with private enterprises. And then the Progress Party is going to raise a whole new issue. In order to be allowed to trade with the State in an entirely ordinary, well-functioning market, the counterparty, the private companies that deal with the State must be managed simultaneously – in this case, how the board decides how to reward its leaders. If you transfer that principle, there's really no limit to where you can start using it. It is the way that the person who deals with the state has to do such things and such things as – stick with the wife and behave properly, keep low wages, and I don't know what to dictate. Is there a new line Progress Party now planning to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1210	To say it carefully, it was well to drag it a little bit well. I believe that the starting point is wrong, and then the results are often wrong and the conclusions are wrong. I registered that the representative Sponheim said ‘in an entirely normal, well-functioning market’. That's what we don't have! We have some extraordinary times when we now have to deal with these government bonds and take action in this package, which has even been called the crisis package. We're in an extraordinary situation, and in an extraordinary situation, it must actually be allowed to make extraordinary demands and do things in relation to it. So I just feel that we are simply politically disagreeable about it. But the starting point here is that it's not an ordinary, well-functioning market a day. There are some challenges out there where we put up through this package, and we want to put some demands back. I think most people are going to experience it as quite unreasonable when the Storting unanimously adopts that package – and someone who then makes use of it, feels to get big bonuses etc. I think most people agree with the Progress Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1217	Let me get the Advance Party in the bargain and say that there is a sin on the Advance Party. Everyone disagrees with the Advancement Party. But what's perhaps the most unfortunate thing about the Progress Party is that they don't understand how crazy populist that proposal they're promoting today is. During the ownership debate, the Progress Party said that one should use the role of share law between the governing bodies of the companies and those responsible for wage and incentive schemes. Today, the Progress Party proposes that those who use the state package should not take options, not have bonuses – they should comply with the management pay arrangements, which the Progress Party opposed, and they should not charge dividends beyond risk-free interest rates. The aluminium industry does so in relation to State power, and the newspapers do so in relation to VAT exemptions and press support. Does the Progress Party believe that what they propose will also apply to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1224	The answer is no, and I want to elaborate on it. I registered that the representative started by saying that the proposal we are now promoting is populist. Of course, claiming it must be on the behalf of the representative. I then find that at the same time some very central people in Norwegian trade union movement are branded populist. Very often, the representative Klungland agrees with the representatives of the trade union movement, where he also has a past. I just note that in this case the Progress Party is in fact in line with representatives of part of the trade movement, and vice versa. It must bother the representative Klungland, I assume, but that he also chose to label them as populist, I think is interesting, and I notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1233	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1236	The financial crisis calls for political leadership, but also for cooperation — cooperation between the authorities, with the business community and between the political parties. Political games, tacticism and party-political rhetoric are not part of a situation where the international financial crisis is rolling over the globe, where the stock exchanges are going over and over again. The situation is serious – even here at home. Our task as politicians is to help replace fear in the market with confidence. It is essential that businesses and individuals have confidence in the banks and that banks have confidence that the political system understands the seriousness and then acts. We must also help to create the necessary trust and faith in the future in a difficult situation. The banks are the very nervous system of our economic life. Does not operate the banks, mostly stops up and replaces them with fear and uncertainty. I have no figures of how many requests I received from small and large companies across the country about the drama many experienced in the days before the government acted. The last few days and weeks have been dramatic — perhaps more dramatic than many have taken in. Loans between banks stopped, and loans to businesses almost stopped. If that situation continued, there could have been consequences for pay payments, it would have gone beyond initial investment in enterprises and jobs, and it could have given a crack in the housing market. The crisis started more than a year ago, and it escalated at the beginning of September when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were put under public administration, and when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. After that, we saw how the banking crisis spread across Europe, where especially our brothers in Iceland were affected. On Monday 6 October, the Icelandic Prime Minister ended his dramatic TV speech by addressing the All-powerful. On the following day, the Minister of Finance presented the budget for 2009 without providing any measures to improve the situation in the money market. On the other hand, we were told that the budget was adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. In retrospect, it has proved to be completely wrong. In addition, the inaction contributed to many, including the Right and the rest of the opposition, asking about the Government’s understanding of the seriousness. Although we felt that the measures were late, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and the Bank of Norway deserve tribute for the proposals we are dealing with today. While other countries have had to deal with purely support measures, the Government has provided a market-based solution. It is currently uncertain whether the measures are adequate. It is therefore essential that the authorities keep under constant review the need for new measures. The right has gone into this matter with the aim of finding solutions with other parties, which can ensure that we have functioning banks all over Norway. It is therefore valuable that the Financial Committee carried out an additional consultation where the full range of small and large banks could be involved on proposals for a package from the Government. We were informed that 20 out of 122 savings banks could not avail themselves of the tools presented. The right is therefore pleased that we were given changes to ensure that all banks are able to avail themselves of the instruments. I'm glad that a group of maggots clearly express their willingness to stand up for our brothers in Iceland. In the wake of the action package, we have had a debate on leadership salaries, dividends and bonuses. It is an important debate, but it is important not to generalise. When some people act unwisely, it doesn't mean that everyone does. Most bankers and managers in small and large banks across the country are hard-working and certainly not Greek people looking for bonuses. Those who are now trying to make political coins that some people have completely unfair arrangements should think through the quick stamping of a whole group of employees in our banks. Most importantly, the Progress Party has proposed that the banks making use of the measures have State restrictions on wage and dividend policies. That proposal does not support the Right, but of course we expect the management of banks to take social responsibility and avoid unfair pay supplements and bonus schemes in the situation we are currently in. There may be differences in the principle of political and state interference in the pay systems of private enterprises, but there is reason to note that all the other civil parties and government parties reject the proposal. Firstly, because the proposal would have resulted in a postponement of the entire package of measures with the serious consequences it would have for confidence in the measures. Secondly, because the Norwegian action package does not involve State aid to banks. I understand that other countries with direct state support also make demands. However, doing so in relation to the Norwegian measures creates a completely wrong picture of the instruments we are dealing with today. The growth of our trading partners will be zero or negative in 2009. The SSB has predicted almost a half of the growth, to about 1 pst. in Norway. Others think that the growth can stop completely. That means an unemployment rate of over 100,000 at the beginning of 2010. Exports and commodity prices can fall sharply, and we have not yet seen the ‘light’ after the financial and banking crisis. There may be worse ring-effects for municipalities, export companies, other industries and the rest of the economy. The SSB's gloomy but not dramatic figures are that the oil price stays up, and that interest rates are falling rapidly, as well as the ability to stabilise financial markets at home and outside. The pheasant has no one today. It is therefore absolutely necessary that, in addition to the monetary instruments, we have a government budget that provides security for homes and jobs. I'm not going to take the budget debate today, but just make it clear that there is a need for major changes in the Government's budget to help create security for jobs beyond 2009. The crisis is not over with the measures we are now dealing with. This is just the first of many absolutely necessary steps. The market economy as the basic economic structure has proved superior to the planned economy. This does not mean, however, that the market economy is self-regulatory and flawless – on the contrary, market failures need to be corrected and the market economy needs to be regulated to ensure competition and compliance with the rules. For the past 25 to 30 years, the economy – not just in our part of the world, but in large parts of the world – has been liberalised. Globalisation contributes to growth, development and well-being. Increased cross-border trade has helped to lift many millions of people out of poverty. The big picture is that globalisation is a positive development, but at the same time it presents us with new challenges. The financial crisis shows that the economy is now globalised, and that one place – in this context in the United States – is rapidly spreading to the world. We have also seen how the hunt for maximum returns leads some actors to take too much risk, not only hitting themselves, but also others, and some actors are willing to break rules perhaps because the risk of being taken is too small, but also because the possibility of winning is great. Time and again, we are reminded that the policy is lagging behind, and that the lack of supranationality weakens our ability to ensure the rules of the economy. The answer is more cooperation, not more protectionism. The answer is better regulation, no more regulation. The answer is more control, no more control. On several occasions, the right has pointed out that a liberalised economy requires strong credit supervision. Although we in Norway have good supervisory arrangements, I believe that the experience of the financial crisis will be that we in Norway too need to strengthen our supervision. The situation we are facing is demanding, but with political leadership and cooperation, I believe that we are helping to restore confidence both in the financial system and in the political system's ability to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1283	I would like to give the representative Sanner and the Right a favourable opinion on and work on the package of measures that we are now discussing in Stortinget. So to a theme that the representative also sanctifies including in his post. Right has opened up to cooperate with the Government Progress Party. In some cases, there may be divergent views between these parties, but in view of market forces, they have emerged with a consistent view. In any case, a lot of us have perceived it this way. In this setting, the Progress Party goes away from this collapsing view, and will make demands for remuneration in companies that use the measures included in the package. What is the representative Sanner's comment on this populist hold that the Progress Party expresses in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1292	I guess I explained that in my article. I see no reason why the state should go into and govern the pay and dividend conditions of private companies when we adopt today a package of measures based on completely market conditions. There is no basis for setting the type of requirements in relation to the package we are adopting today. But when that is said, I am concerned that the debate we are going to have today should be more than the proposals of the Progress Party. We are in the midst of a very serious financial crisis, a banking crisis, in Europe, which we have also seen spread, and which has ring-fenced Norway. And then I think it's the measures we should discuss and not the recordings from the Progress Party, which really have nothing to do with this debate. But I would like to thank you for the commendable publicity from Sandal. I'm concerned that in the serious situation we're in now, it's going to work together over the traditional dividing lines. It is necessary to restore trust in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1300	In this debate, we and the Right largely agree on the big lines. We're a little clearer about making demands on the executives' wages than the Right is willing to do at this point, but I've heard many Right-People say that they agree with the Government's policy in that area as well. But I couldn't – in a situation where market liberalism is in one of its greatest crises, and where market fundamentalism has spelt out on the world's stock exchanges in recent years – leave an easy vantage point that the market economy is the plan economy superior to the plan economy. It cannot be that Jan Tore Sanner believes that a market-based health system, such as the health insurance we see in the United States, is superior to the Norwegian plan-based health system, where we pay jointly and receive health care as needed. Or that the pension system, the market-based pension system that you have in the United States, where people's pensions are now collapsing, is superior to the Norwegian population's interest, where we pay in and organize these things together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1307	If the representative Heikki Holmås and SV had been equally concerned with setting limits for the state as we are of setting limits for the market, then I think we would have come quite far. I believe that not all tasks can be solved in the market. The market is efficient, it makes good use of resources. Competition is for the benefit of consumers. But, of course, there must be limits to the market. There are some advantages where the market is not suitable as a solution. In the case of pensions, in the case of health, part of the basic services to be provided by society. However, in terms of economic development itself, the ability to create growth, development and well-being, there is no doubt that the market economy is superior to the planned economy. But, as I said, the market economy needs to be regulated in order to create competition and predictable conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1312	The representative, Sanner, stated that the state budget had expired with regard to forecasts. That's absolutely correct. I wonder whether the Right will present its own proposals for infrastructure investment, or whether they will only continue to complain that the forecasts are wrong, and that they will not make alternative proposals on infrastructure investment, upgrading school buildings, etc. The right is often good at rhetoric, but it is rare that we see concrete proposals – or they vote against the proposals of the Progress Party when we promote this kind of proposal here in the Stortinget. So my second question to the representative: Sanner claimed that it was completely impossible to sign an agreement on a bonus stop for the financial peaks, because the agreement would then be delayed. What comes out of the fact that financial institutions could not sign such an agreement, in parallel with benefiting from the scheme? Is there any particular principle that makes it take a long time for them to join such a limitation of bonuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1319	The first question, with all due respect, does not belong in this debate when we are discussing the financial crisis and not the alternative budget of the Right. But when the question is first asked: Yes, of course, the Right is going to propose increased investment on the road, on infrastructure, on knowledge – on tax reliefs, Tybring-Gjedde. There I am sure that the Right and Advance Party will move in the same direction. With regard to the second question, I just have to be honest and say that I believe that the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway are now going to use all their labour to ensure that we have a well-functioning banking system all over Norway. I see no reason why Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen is going to instruct his employees to spend time managing the wage development and profits of the banks. They shouldn't spend time on that right now. They should use the time to regain confidence in our banking system. It's important for us as consumers, and it's important for businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1326	I think it was nice to hear what the representative Sanner said about the market economy. It's not sea-regulating. It's not flawless. It must be regulated and we must ensure that the rules of the game are followed. I'm very happy about that. The nucleus of a social market economy is exactly what has been said here. Without regulation, there is no competition. One gets monopolised, and one gets pyramidal organization. Edible means that competition is a state product. There is something the state must ensure that competition is, otherwise we get what is the consequences of the famous monopoly game. What Sanner points to is the international and national responsibility associated with the situation we're up against. Clearly, the regulatory mechanisms we have had have been too poor. Will the Right now also look at the international regime for currency stability and ensure that it works better, as a result of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1335	The right also wants to notify Norway into the EU, so that we can contribute to transnational cooperation, where we will have a completely different opportunity to ensure that we have international rules to ensure that policy does not consistently fall behind the economy. It's obvious in the situation we're now in, that the economy is globalized, but that politics doesn't follow. It is simply because we do not have supranational bodies that can ensure international rules for economic operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1340	Of course, the package that we have for treatment today is absolutely necessary. The reason for this is that it became difficult for Norwegian financial institutions to secure long-term funding, and if a fund was provided, a sky-high interest rate had to be paid. So here the state goes in and secures funding at a much lower interest rate than the ordinary market was willing to offer. At the same time, the state takes on a risk that one today does not know its size. But in any case, the country praises this risk much lower than the ordinary market does. Nevertheless, the representative Sanner claims that the loans provided by the State are market-based, and that one therefore cannot impose conditions on these loans, in the form of bonus waivers, etc. Then my question is: then must it mean that the ordinary market is wrong, and that it is the state that is the perfect institution to measure what is the right market rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1347	I am not quite sure if I understood the question. But it is quite obvious that if it had been the case that the package had involved some kind of support, we also had to give money or set aside funds. You don't do that, and it underlines that this is a package of instruments that are on market-based terms. As loan customers, we want to enjoy these by getting the market rate lower than it would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1355	Tonight, the former so powerful governor of the United States admitted Alan Greenspan that he was wrong. He never thought that the banks in the United States could go as bad as they do now, and become as little solid as they have proved to be. He said he took a partial responsibility that the long, low interest rates had contributed to the housing bubble and the financial bubble we have seen over there, and he admitted that the deregulation of the market in the 1990s did not lead to the invisible hand of the market creating growth and prosperity for all. The unimpeded greed of capitalist investors gave sky-high wages, bonuses and options for the top managers and ruin for the approx. 5 million Americans who are expected to lose their homes and homes. The gain is privatized. The debt is payable by the community. This is the reality of capitalism in the United States in 2008. In Norway, banks do not have the same problems. We are better rusted, for four different reasons: Some learned from the previous banking crisis we had in the 1980s and early 1990s, when many, many despaired families in a hearty way lost houses and homes through forced sales. The second is that we regulate our banks better than they do in the United States. The third is that we have an interest rate that can be reduced, which allows us to meet the setback times we expect to pass to Norway. The fourth is that we have profits that can be used to make sure that unemployment doesn't snap. But we have danger signals at home, too. The loans to people have more than doubled in recent years, and we have many young people who are now in danger because they have borrowed far above the pipe. The right-hand side invested in tax relief and low interest in order for people to borrow money to get the wheels going. It is easy to see that this may have been the underlying cause of the housing bubble, which unfortunately may have been created in recent years. In the hearing, both Gedrem and Cappelen argued that the way we have managed the housing sector has led to the crises that we have seen about 20 years apart. After Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, interest on the money that banks borrow from each other rose, and it stopped. It threatened people who were going to borrow money for housing, and it threatened companies that needed money for investment. The flow in the market we got started again, and we got interest down when the government presented its package of measures. Because the government's policy works, Nordea and DnB NOR blew off their announced interest rate increases, which means that a family that has about 2 million. kr in loans, gets NOK 1000 less in interest expenses in the month. What we see, in the situation we're up in, is that the government is running a policy that works. It helps us to create stability and calm and prospects here in the country, while the market liberals are the losers. Market fundamentalism is dead, and the Progress Party is changing its party program in understanding this perception of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1372	I understand from the representative's comments that it is the United States and the previous government in Norway that are largely responsible for what has now happened. I want to bring the representative back a little from the party speeches and to the situation we have in Norway. With this crisis package, we may have clarified some aspects of the banking system, but there is a lot of evidence that we are going to have significant downturns in the real economy, which means that we are getting worse results for businesses, that jobs are going to end, etc. My question to Holmås is then the following: Does he still mean – I heard that he boasted of the budget that was presented on 7 October – after he now sees the way this is going, that the budget is well adapted to the situation, which has been a mantra from the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1379	Yeah, I mean it. But I also believe that we need to look at economic development further as new forecasts are produced. The central statistical agency provided a forecast that was very optimistic, before we presented our own budget. Then we presented our own budget, which lay between the prognosis and the prognosis that the Statistical Central Bureau presented a little later, which was more pessimistic. We know that next Wednesday, the Bank of Norway will provide a new forecast for interest rates in the future. We're not going to start tax relief and very, very low interest rates like the previous government did. We want lower interest rates than what we have now. Then we'll make investments in rail, maintenance, school, education and well-being for people to avoid that unemployment breaks down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1386	It was a violent outcome from the representative Holmås to the market. As far as no bomb came either on me or on the audience, I assume that the representative Holmås has no great confidence in the market. It came from a party that has a Vice President who believes that Oslo Børs should be terminated immediately. But, okay, leave that debate. Given that the market is so negative and skeptical, I registered that in the debate we had earlier today, it was claimed that this package that this government is presenting – a government of which SV is part – is a market-based solution, based on the market. There is a market-adapted solution presented by the Government in this crisis situation. How, then, is it possible, if you think that the market is responsible for everything here, to rely on the same market to solve the crisis? How can the representative Holmås stand in for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1393	I'm not an opponent of the market. I am very pleased that the market has given us e.g. iPhone, iPod and other things that are good. But I am, unlike the Progress Party, not in favour of the market ruling without intervention, as it says in the programme of the Progress Party, simply because it is completely free to market, such as, among other things. have occurred in parts of the financial sector in the United States, creating a huge bubble that is now threatening to hit ordinary people in both the United States — who are already hitting ordinary people in the United States — and in Norway in terms of higher interest rates and higher unemployment. So the market fundamentalists believe in the invisible hand of the market. I think that Joseph Stiglitz's statement is better, that when it seems that the hand of the market is invisible, it might be simply because it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1400	I understand that the representative Holmås uses both posts and any line for a sort of market-liberal settlement, and it sounds like he likes it. My question is about the suggestions that Heikki Holmås made, about a possible budget audit. I ask, if this is the case that the forecasts that Norway Bank will deliver next week are something close to the forecasts that the SSB delivered for a short time, does that mean that we can expect a revision of the government's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1407	I say nothing other than what both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister said earlier, namely that the starting point is that we follow the established audit plans. In other words, now we take the budget as it exists here, and then we take the revised national budget to next year. But, of course, we are following developments and are committed to using the budget and budgetary instruments, i.e. government money, to keep unemployment down or solve other problems that may arise. This package of measures we are now bringing to the banks was, for example: not within the budget. On the contrary, this is something that comes to the top of the budget. Similarly, the representative Syversen knows that in this year's budget, in the budget for 2008, we brought new hundreds of billions to the hospitals when we realized that it was necessary, already early in the year. So we're going to follow what we're saying, and keep what we promise, that's to make sure that we follow and take measures to prevent unemployment from going up. But just when and what's needed, I can't say here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1412	It has been said in this debate that we are in an exceptional situation; there is extraordinary movement in the capital markets. What's happening now was quite undisputed just six to twelve months ago. For example, a large financial institution like Lehman Brothers was going to end up, very few were going to. Then the representative says Holmås that the loans we provide here are almost no risk. Therefore, a very low interest rate, which is market-based and not subsidised in any way, also has a very low interest rate. When one bases these analyses on the fact that the risk is entirely minimal, my question is: What is the basis for this risk assessment, and how does the representative Holmås know that there is little risk of providing funding to Norwegian financial institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1421	That's because unemployment in Norway is low, and because the housing loans that we're talking about here, these bonds, are secured in Norwegian people's homes, which is one of the safest things we know about. As a state, we know well about this. Both the House Bank and other banks have suffered very little losses in the housing sector in recent years. Garden seats were present at the hearing where this was said. We have a good safety net, which ensures that those who have problems get help from the municipality, by the state, by the Husbank, in different ways. That's why we think these bonds are secured. But they're going to be assessed by credit companies. They shall be assessed and given a «rating», as clearly stated in the papers here. Those that are safest will get the cheapest exchange ratio in government bonds, and those that are least secured will get the highest interest rates. That's how it works. So we're lending money from Norway's Bank today that the banks are borrowing on, and it's never been claimed by the Progress Party that it doesn't happen on market terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1426	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1429	I am absolutely sure that many in Health-Norway ate their ears when the representative Holmås issued hundreds of billions of dollars to the hospitals in his reply to me, so it will be a budget audit. I am absolutely convinced of that. So back to the background of the matter we're dealing with today. It is a package of measures that is caused by an acute liquidity problem in the money market. Although the measures are carried out under market conditions – there is no gold card we are talking about – the package shows that the state provides the banking industry when it is needed. That's what the chairman of the Savings Bank Association said when we had the hearing, that in the situation you were, any solid bank could crash at an unfortunate time, is quite illustrative, I think. That was the real situation. The collateral that banks could provide to each other for loans did not provide sufficient security anymore. So instead of borrowing to each other, the banks placed their liquidity in the Bank of Norway. The deposit there might not have been so good interest, but the money was at least safe. It was this that also gave the negative effects to what is really important for the creation of value, that is, business. In such a crisis, companies too would have major problems renewing their financing and receiving loans for new investments. It would affect the entire value creation of society in a very serious way. I believe that the rescue package must also be assessed in the light of this. It is not just about ensuring the functioning of the banking market. It is about accessing finance to business on acceptable terms, and it is about something as simple as once again that banks dare to lend money to local businesses and to new mortgage customers. It is not in all cases that there is a process in the committee, especially when we have a majority rule. I want to pay tribute to the majority of the parties so that it was possible to move the whole setting to be extended to include part of the regional savings banks, which could not directly benefit from the package that was first presented. Here we have also received a unanimous vote, and I think it is very gratifying that in the short time we had, it was nevertheless possible to give authority to the Government and to the Bank of Norway, so that the package is further adapted and can meet even better. Then we are also concerned about following the situation closely. There may be a new escalation of the crisis, which must be met quickly with the necessary measures, and we are of course also prepared to take action. Towards the end, I would like to point out that there is an overall committee that points to Iceland's situation. I have also understood that there are representatives from the Department and the Bank of Norway on Iceland these days. It is, in fact, a strong request from the entire Committee to be able to contribute as much as possible and under the conditions which Iceland considers acceptable. I'm sure the Council of State will take it with me. Then, of course, there is a debate related to management wages, options and dividends in the light of the fact that the state is in a way addressing the banking industry in this situation. As we've said before, we're assuming that in the banks you have influence, where you're the owner, the state shows in a very clear way what it means in that kind of question. We expect that from the Christian People's Party, and I think most people also have a great sense of it, without presenting suggestions here in the Chamber that go in a very strong direction, to control what we're talking about here. With regard to the real economy, which of course will have consequences because of this banking crisis, we believe – as we said last week – that a revision of the budget is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1448	The representative Heikki Holmås has asked for the word to a manifest misunderstanding. The President is probably questioning about it, but will still allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1452	Since it was made a number of it from the previous speaker, I just want to say that there were, of course, hundreds of millions we granted, and not hundreds of billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1457	That might have been an important piece of information. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1462	The representative of the Seven sat a few seconds in the Council of State chair, but is now in place in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1467	It was a good seat, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1472	Yes, I can imagine that, especially considering that we are together about the setting. And that's good. This morning there was a debate at the Political Quarter, where the head of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Høybräten, also addressed this with leadership wages and options in relation to state ownership. As I perceived him, he wants stronger commitment from the state as the owner. In relation to the ownership message, in the red-green parts, we were very clear on resistance to options. The Christian People's Party had a note where they did not want to go in principle against it. In the light of the debate that has been over the past week, I wonder whether the Christian People's Party has changed its view of options and rewards in state corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1479	If the representative of the Aasen reads the comments of the Christian People's Party on the announcement of ownership, she will see that even the Christian People's Party is very concerned that once the state is inside as owner, one should have clear leadership in the light of the ownership to be exercised. That's also what we want in this context. Because when the Minister of Finance presents a press release after this unanimous vote, she only refers to the ownership message, but there are no clear messages for example. DnB NOR on how to act in this situation. That's what we would like to see a little bit stronger from the Government, that we now gave a clear message to the bank in which we have a big holding. It will also have positive ring-effects. Now I have five seconds left: To the obvious misunderstanding: there has never been any doubt in my mind that the representative Holmås has been a supporter of substatement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1486	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1489	The international financial crisis is increasingly affecting the Norwegian economy. Sickness if Norwegian banks are smooth over is solid, yet banks are hard hit as a result of their increased dependence on raising money through deposits in the international money market. The main types of risk for banks and other credit institutions are liquidity risk and credit risk, while the financial market generally also holds market risk and operational risk. In autumn, the banks operating in Norway are affected by liquidity risk – which many have experienced – i.e. what is simply an acute lack of money, which in the worst case could lead to bankruptcy. Deposits are the main long-term source of funding for banks. While the bank deposit coverage in 1996 was over 80 p.m., it is per year. August this year is now just above 60 pst. For banks, it becomes an alternative to use the market for short-term financing, what we would like to refer to as the money market. This market consists, inter alia, of: interbank loans, which are loans between banks, certificate loans and loans from the Bank of Norway. Borrowing in the money market is usually less favourable than long-term financing. Since banks' deposits of money are of shorter length than their loans, they are at regular intervals dependent on being able to renew or make new deposits. More equal maturity of deposits and loans may reduce the risk to banks. As long-term financing through deposits in Norwegian banks has become an increasingly smaller proportion of lending to banks, the opposite has happened with deposits to banks from abroad. According to the 2007 credit notification at the end of 2007 in Norway, foreign funding to banks amounted to DKK 512 billion, an increase of DKK 42 billion from the previous year. Foreign-owned banks in Norway have significantly lower long-term funding than Norwegian banks, and are mainly financed through the group in the short term. Today Stortinget deals with a large support package for Norwegian banks. This support package allows banks to exchange loans, the bank's mortgage by up to 75 pst. collateral in the borrower's dwelling deposited in covered bonds to debt securities issued by the Norwegian State, i.e. government bonds. A total of NOK 350 billion is to be issued in government bonds out of this year and next year. The duration of the sovereign debt shall be three years, with the possibility of extension. The purpose is to ensure that banks have access to deposits on terms adapted to a normal functioning market. Why has the international money market collapsed? The market has collapsed because trust between banks, financial institutions and customers is no longer present. Our banks are likening to national infrastructure. They must function effectively every day in order for people’s daily lives to be normal. Something else is completely unreal. So how can this trust collapse? In recent years, we have witnessed great economic growth both in Norway and in many other countries. The availability of money and credit has been high everywhere. New and more complex risk transfer techniques have been seen. Risks have been masked and are emerging inconspicuously for investigators, both nationally and internationally. In the rest of the world, insurance companies have insured banks' risks, which have given banks incentives for even greater lending than the banks would otherwise be able to do. When the market no longer believes in these insurances, the effects on credit access become enormous. Furthermore, complex structured financial products have been put together in such a way that the final investor has not been aware of the extent of the risk posed by the investment. As a result of the consultation of the Financial Committee, a unanimous Committee calls on the Government to ensure that medium-sized regional savings banks can also benefit from this package of measures. That is an important result of the consultation. There is also reason to stop the increasing credit risk of banks, which is largely linked to developments in the housing market. The debt of Norwegian households has increased strongly, leading to an increase in risk. Therefore, more active public efforts in the housing sector and the financing of the commercial sector are becoming key issues in the future. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not all industries that are wrong for the state to present such a historically large support package when market conditions become a crisis. But government and big business have no choice. It is therefore reasonable, in the view of the Centre and the majority, that this is also reflected in the behaviour of the management of the banks. The Central Party therefore expects bankers to assume their responsibilities in the future to clean up what is due to poor incentive systems and high employee bonuses, which have contributed to an unstable situation at home. However, linking this with the requirements of the banks using the support package would be wrong, because the most important thing now is to quickly put in place the stabilisation package, which will provide customers with security in relation to the Norwegian banking system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1518	This is a handshake to Bank and Finance Norway to make it work again. The state helps us get security, and then the bank and finance have to give something back by changing the behavior. Bonus schemes have been a contributing factor in this lending party. This was said by the representative Lundtägen to the NRK earlier this week. He was also quite clear that the bosses of the banks who get a crisis package must be denied a bonus. This was also part of Lundtegen’s speech. Will Lundteigen now vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party? Or is this just deception and double communication to the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1525	The centre party does not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. What lies on the part of the Government is a difficult package to ensure that banks have access to deposits on terms adapted to the ordinary functioning of the market. That being said, the banks have nowhere else to go but to the Norwegian state. Fortunately, the Norwegian State is able to provide this security. As I said, it would be wrong to link commitments to the package, as it is now, in the short term. But over time, as it says in the setting, it has to be made possible for a change in behaviour, so that the payment systems that employees have contribute to greater stability in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1535	First, I would like to give tribute to Mr Lundtegen for the constructive work he has done in the Committee in order to reach an agreement on the widest possible wording. I think it's important in a matter like this. I might have expected that, in his investigation into the crisis, he would also have looked at the consequences that could actually have, namely that businesses are stopping, that jobs are being lost, etc. That's what's been the big concern. I thought maybe the Central Party representative would come up with this. I do not doubt that he is still concerned about it. Now we see that the crisis is in the process of reproducing itself into the real economy. We're going to have a significant decline. I would like to ask the same question as I asked earlier today to the representative Holmås: Does the representative Lundtegen think that the budget presented on 7 October, which was built on completely different assumptions, is still well adapted to the economic situation we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1544	First of all, I would also like to thank you for the good tone that has been in the committee when dealing with the matter. I clearly said that the bank is national infrastructure. Why is that? Yes, because it has the consequences that the fleet here mentions in terms of business and jobs. It is an integral part of the entire Norwegian society, and therefore it is an area that needs to be regulated so that one can get that security. To the specific question: if the analysis provided by the Statistical Central Bureau on the outlook for the Norwegian economy does not involve any more dramatic changes to the State budget. But what's going to happen in the future is very difficult to have a concrete opinion about, because there's so much going on every single day. But I want to repeat: the Statistical Central Bureau has founded a few weeks ago is not so dramatic that it is a citizen of significant changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1553	I think in many ways it was a good analysis Lundtigen gave in his post, even when it was about the minority proposal that is on the table. But then the state also owns a large bank, DnB NOR, where the state has an item of 34 pst. Does Lundtigen see any need for the state that owns to act in such a way that the bank understands what is part of the social mandate that the bank has, in keeping with what is now required for peace and stability, and which also has to do with management wages, dividends and options?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1560	DnB NOR is to compare with the Norwegian banking hub. It is the bank that sets the standard in many ways and should take the lead – which thus has a leading role. As far as I am aware, at least at the last decision-making meeting in the bank, the representatives of the state have presented what the representative of the Syversen is now asking for. There's been little attention around this. There is something that was not taken sufficiently into account, because there was no understanding of it among the majority shareholders. But I expect the state that owns to follow up on what the representative Syversen is asking for here, in an even clearer and public way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1565	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1568	After following this debate for an hour and a half now, it strikes me that there is probably a bit different opinion here in the Chamber about how to perceive the package that is being presented, from giving the impression that this is a large state aid project for Norwegian banks, with support packages and such things. I want to make it quite clear that what we are talking about is that what has happened in the banking market, in many ways, is a very rapid and effective market failure in the money market between banks. This leads the country to enter as a market operator with a market product that is what is needed to restore the functioning of the market. It won't surprise me, when this crisis is over and these products are going to be reversed, if it turns out that this has been a good store for the state too – the probability of it being enough – at least there has been no loss. Then it was said throughout the uproar of this banking crisis, not least from the central bank, that it was absolutely essential that a strike be made on time and with the correct dosage. Early overdosage could send some crisis signals that would reinforce the problem. And if one waited too long, the problems would of course come. When this decision is adopted unanimously in the Grand Duchy later today, there has been no doubt about the strength. It has been agreed upon. I have also not seen that there has been anyone else about the time when the package is to be implemented. So it seems to be an overall political environment that is behind both the timing and the strength of this intervention in the market – with market-based products, it must be right to say. I also want to find out some of the things that have happened during the committee's work on this, because it has been quite interesting. There is no doubt that there has been a real process that has led to where we are today. Firstly, the hearing was very important. In the hearing with the banking industry, something was fixed very early for everyone present, for there were many rumors about it in advance: this was not a package that was tailor-made and then to say made for DnB NOR alone. This was a package that the whole of Bank Norway thought was necessary, whether it was savings banks or commercial banks. It also became clear that everyone agrees that DnB NOR is important, as the second largest bank in the Norwegian banking system. Had you created a package that made DnB NOR have equal problems, while everyone else could be helped, we would probably still have an equal problem. The banks are very dependent on the fact that the large DNB NOR works well and can distribute money. There is well reason to believe that that bank has also deciphered the largest deposits and the best liquidity. What made the impression on me – and I'm sure of many others – was the report from the Association's Director, Arne Hyttnes. He said it very simply: in these sensitive, critical days, a bank could go bankrupt in a pure accident. A solid bank could simply go dolling by one person going in and taking out a large amount – and there are very large deposits in Norwegian banks without any binding time. The money can then be taken out per minute. A person could go in and take out a huge amount, which, of course, the bank had to compensate by borrowing money from other banks. When it didn't work, a bank could suddenly be without money to pay out the next deposit withdrawal. Then suddenly there would be a situation in which a very solid, maybe it could be called a rich bank could go bankrupt because the marketplace for money did not work. It says something about what drama many bank managers have probably felt in these days. So I think it was obvious to most people who were present at the hearings, that the evidence – to call them that – that came from some slightly smaller or medium-sized savings banks, especially from the Saving Bank Pluss in the South, that they couldn't take part in this, led to a rather unison reaction in the committee that we have to try to do something about this by making the price of the entrance ticket in order to participate in these products, lower or lighter. I see that someone is trying to suggest that they were behind this initiative. I experienced it as completely unisonous and like in the whole committee, that we're doing something about this. And so has been done. Then I want to address the Iceland question in the end. I chose to record it already after the financial speech, and later there has been a struggle to be the most Icelandic friendly. I don't think that's a big point. The point is that something is being done. This is a question to the finance minister, whom I hope she will answer: How far away are we now an official version of an IMF package, where Norway also participates? I read in foreign newspapers that it is believed to be coming, but we have not yet received official confirmation that there is an IMF package, where Norway is on a spice layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1588	I would like to begin by commending the representative Sponheim for the contribution he has made to arrive at the position we have today on the decision to be taken. He has contributed constructively and well in that work. But in his remarks he and the Right distance from the comments of the other parties on the forward behaviour of the bank management. As far as I could take this line on the Right Representative, Jan Tore Sanner, but I thought it was more interesting that the Advance Party got two lines to the Right, in relation to the government option for next year, than that I should use up that opportunity. That's why I'm asking Sponheim. Now, in the debate, Jan Tore Sanner has made it clear that if the state has to enter more, it is natural to look at option and management remuneration. The Christian People's Party has gone further, but has said that it depends on state ownership. And we know that the Progress Party has a proposal on this matter. My question is what does the Left really think about the problem that has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1597	It is my fundamental belief that too many, or at least some, are taking too high wages in this country. I have previously stated publicly that the most demanding job is to have in Norway, it is to be Prime Minister. Those who choose to put a price tag on their heads that goes far beyond it, to do paid work, praise themselves too high. I'm a careful man, and I don't understand what to do with so much money, to say it like this, to live a good life. How do you make sure that that happens? Well, it's living in a society where you have that attitude. Having millions of wages and thinking you're worth millions -- I know it can be headlines when I say that -- I think I'm a little tired. I am a customer of two banks, and I closely follow that these banks are not too fat and pay too hard. “Money talk.” I think the bank managers understand much better if they lose their customers and get clear notice. That's why we need to have transparency, writing and attention about these salaries, so it's uncomfortable for the bosses to praise themselves too high. That's the way I believe most. So I'm going to come back to whether I'm willing to use other tools when there's a situation that arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1604	The president would point out that "harry" is absolutely okay to say, but "harry-money" is something else. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1609	I would like to start by thanking you for your good cooperation between government and big business in this matter, and between the Ministry of Finance and the Finance Committee. The biggest and the financial committee has been able to deal with a matter in a very short time. They have also been able to carry out consultations with the interested parties that have made it possible to understand how this would be received. That means that there has already been an exchange message that it is at 0 p.m. 5.30 p.m. today, provided that the Storting accepts what is believed to be a decision, details of how to proceed in order to put in place what makes it possible to exchange debt securities in preference to sovereign debt. It shows something that is very important for future management, and it is that the Government and the Ministry of Finance, together with the Bank of Norway, are able, under very high pressure, to develop the instruments that meet the challenges we face at the time. It's worth noting, because it happened in the week that is perhaps the absolute busiest in a finance department, that is, the week you present the state budget. I understand that some along the way, after they started getting messages, which several people have now been talking about here, were afraid of a situation in which one could go concubine in an accident, which the representative Sponheim was in. I am absolutely sure that many deposit representatives were informed of that kind of concern. But I'm also quite sure that the Storting understands that in terms of this kind of proposal, with so many sensitive information, it's not that you can go to an open seminar. It is necessary to lay down, decide, process information as it is to be treated, listen to the actors to whom it is to apply, and then make the proposal that is to be made. I want to thank you for this, because we don't know what can come of challenges ahead. There is no one who can say today that the bottom is now reached, and here is the crisis over. It's just that we have to have a standby. We have now shown that we have it in the Bank of Norway, we have it in the Ministry of Finance, we have it in the Government, and we have it in the Stortinget. And in this case, you're ready to cooperate across party boundaries to quickly get the measures in place. I thank you for the cooperation that has been in that context. When this action is to be implemented, I think it will also be clearer for everyone that this is not a state-to-bank support package. This is a measure to make the market work. But it's a market measure. It's not like I'm borrowing out the gold card and Mom's paying. Because you have to pay for this, because the other cards don't work. That's the whole point. Here, there was a situation where the credit market stopped, where companies had problems refinancing loans, and where loan customers saw that there was a big difference in interest rates and money market rates. No one has proposed this on behalf of bank managers or some brokers with commissions. This has been done for the sake and care of businesses and persons. I don't think it's populist to make demands if the state sets out for any industry, for what they're going to deliver again. I also do not think it is populist at the moment when the state has comprehensive guarantees, for example. or provide support in any way, to make demands in relation to bonuses, management fees or dividends. But then there must be that kind of action. I spoke to my Swedish colleague today. They have long had this opportunity in relation to Swedish government bonds, because they have done so under mandate. They have not attached any of those obligations to it. As soon as the Finance Committee had given this matter up, I asked for a meeting with the Saving Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Chief Organisation – two hours after the release. There I said very clearly that it would not be understood, not by the political environment, not by the audience, not by anyone, and that it would be very bad social intelligence, if the answer from the banking industry now – although this was not a situation where formal demands were made, because there were no subsidies in the package – would be to pay bonuses in such a magnitude that someone could believe. And the banks live by trust. So I said one more thing, and that was that if we now have to go further with new measures, either in the form of guarantees or other types of clear support schemes, formal conditions will be attached to it. Both bankers promised to pass it on to the banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1627	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1630	I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for dialogue on the matter we have been dealing with and for having had dialogue with the opposition. I also hope that it can continue, because there is nothing to suggest that this crisis is over tomorrow, to say it that way. But then to what I was going to ask. The Committee has underlined in its comments that it is important to maintain a high level of preparedness and that the need for any new measures is assessed on an ongoing basis. The Minister of Finance has pointed this out and said that it is of course one who is willing to do so. We are now in a situation where the state budget will also be dealt with in a short time. There is no doubt that the State budget to be adopted by the Stortinget, which will apply for the coming year, will also be crucial for dealing with the situation in question. Will the government parties then also be willing to make changes in conversations with the opposition to get a device on this state budget that might better capture the situation we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1637	There's one thing that's certain, and that's that it's uncertain, and that it's hard to predict when there's as much uncertainty as now. What is also certain is that the government budget presented has taken into account that there will be a significantly lower growth next year than we have had in the last four to five years, and that we will be going from a strong high economic cycle into a growth that is lower than the trend growth. In our trading partners, growth is likely to be even lower than that. But I think you should be very careful now to imagine crisis packages in the billions of dollars class on top of the state budget that is. It is simply because we have a strong need to use two instruments: financial policy is one and monetary policy is the other. These measures we are now taking are to the extent that part of it and what the Norwegian Bank is doing to provide liquidity, but there must also be a room for interest-rate reduction. And that's the room you eat from, if you look at big new crisis packages. I think it's of great importance to the companies. This is of great importance for the difference in interest rates between Norway and the rest of the world, and therefore again of great importance for enterprises and for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1646	I thank the Council of State for the last lecture of the Party of Advancement. I hope that helps. The council said in its article something I am very pleased about. I would like to stress the consensus that we are not sure that these measures are sufficiently effective, and I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway are prepared to come in with more. Since there is now agreement on the package – if one ignores a few minor marginal comments in the vote – I would like to ask the Council of State for an opinion that fell into the debate of her own financial advisor, who refers to the housing bubble as if it had occurred. Is that the Ministry of Finance's analysis, too? If that's the case, what measures are you planning to take? Finally, the question: the Council of State considered the effects on the housing market when, in the 2007 budget, she wanted to free up some. NOK 100 billion in purchasing power by repealing the IPA scheme and the annuity scheme? Now not all of that was adopted, but it was the proposal of the Council of State and the Government. Did she then consider the relationship between this and the pressure on the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1657	First, I don't need to teach the Progress Party. I understand that questions about bank managers' wages, commissions to brokers, and all of this come up in a situation where you have to go into measures to move into the financial market. I just don't understand the connection to exactly this measure. So I think we have to target what people will most require of the banking industry, namely moderation and moderation in relation to both top management salaries, options and bonuses in this case. Then to the housing market. No, I don't want to predict a housing bubble or a heavy fall in the housing market. But what we've seen is a relatively cautious decline, more cautious than many headlines have given the impression. Of course, the housing market is very exposed in times like this, with first a period of relatively low interest rates and then a period of significantly higher interest rates. As for IPA and these other things, we obviously saw the whole of the effects of it, but I'm not going to undertake to predict anything more about the development of the housing market. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1666	The President must ask that we try to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1669	In a previous round of replies with the Central Party's fiscal spokesman, Per Olaf Lundtigen, he made it clear – which is also the view of the Christian People's Party – that for the part with which we have some governance, that is, DnB NOR, there should be a clear indication of what the Minister of Finance was also concerned about, namely options, dividends, management salaries, etc. It was said by the representative Lundtegen that this had already been carried out in a board meeting – as far as I could understand. Can the State Council confirm this and, where appropriate, say something about how to communicate the wishes and demands of the State that owns in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1674	Of course, the representative Syversen is aware that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the Ministry of Ownership in relation to DnB NOR, who owns these questions with DnB NOR. The seven are also aware that at two general meetings there have been comments from the state that owns the pension conditions for the current group manager of DnB NOR, and it is about implementing the guidelines we have set for state ownership and the conditions for managers. I can assure you that the signals that I perceive that almost the entire Storting is behind in terms of moderation and restraint will be passed on. But we're not majority victories in DnB NOR, and it's the board that's going to decide what kind of conditions it should be. But I think all the banks that are concerned about having customers in the future will make sure to deal with this situation of social intelligence. If they don't lose customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1681	I would like to repeat the question I asked from the pulpit instead of Iceland. There was some writing in the Financial Times earlier this week -- I think -- that there should be an IMF-directed package consisting of loans from the IMF and some countries that were invited to go in, among others. Norway and other Nordic countries, and I think Japan was mentioned. Similarly, there was a look-up in today's industry in Sweden yesterday or yesterday that suggested something of the same, with an even higher amount. But this has not yet been officially confirmed. Can the Council of State confirm that Norway has received such an enquiry from the IMF and that there is a possibility that it will be officially confirmed in the near future that such a coordinated rescue package – if we can call it it – is available through the IMF?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1693	I cannot confirm that Iceland and the IMF have agreed on an agreement – so far. As far as I am informed, those conversations should take place yesterday and perhaps today. We now have, as you know, a delegation in Iceland headed by a Head of the Department of Finance, and there is also a representative from the Swedish Ministry of Finance. We expect that this will result in a well-updated situation report, both on how the IMF views the situation in Iceland, and also on how Iceland itself views the situation. Then there shall be the Prime Minister's meeting of the prime ministers in Helsinki on Monday and the Finance Minister's meeting on Tuesday. I expect that the situation in Iceland will be at the heart of these meetings, but I don't think we should hope that we will end up with a solution for Iceland during Monday and Tuesday. I think the contact and discussion about what kind of action could take a little longer. But we have a lot of attention on the situation in Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1701	As the Minister of Finance pointed out, there are a number of concerns from both individuals and businesses that it has been difficult to obtain a loan and that the level of interest rates has been high on the loans given. Now I assume that the Ministry of Finance has made its judgements as to whether this package is sufficient to correct a slightly more normal situation when it comes to these issues, and also how quickly it will go before a return to more normal conditions. Then my questions to the Minister of Finance: Can we now, when this package is hopefully signed here today, expect that it will be easier to get a loan, and that a more normal situation will arise when it comes to the possibility of getting a loan? Can one also expect interest to go down, and that future interest cuts from the governor's side will also fully benefit borrowers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1708	We know that this package is well received by the banks. We know that we've already seen signs that it's starting to float a little bit more. So we know that some banks might take some time to figure out how to make this switch between preferential debt securities and sovereign debt, but we believe that we've made the right -- that's what the whole Storting is doing -- with these measures compared to the problems that are per. today. So we don't know if further action is needed in the future. But it increases the chances of companies getting loans at an interest rate that they can pay, and it'll make it easier to get interest down. I expect the banks to ensure that ordinary customers get a share in the decline in interest rates that will eventually come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1716	It is a unanimous increase that today gives the green light to an adjusted package of measures for the financial industry, a package that is absolutely necessary for several reasons – not only to improve the flow of capital in a market that has stopped, but also to avoid banks ending up and large amounts being lost. In fact, the last thing I think it is worth holding on to is also in the debate related to the proposal of the Progress Party to demand waivers from options, dividends, etc. There has been a good dialogue between big business and government, and I just want to encourage the government to continue with the close dialogue, because I fully agree that the only thing that is safe is that things are insecure, and I think that both big business and government must react quickly if there is a need for new measures. And it's troubled times. So what happened as a financial crisis is now going to be economic downturns in large parts of the world. We don't see how serious this is at the moment, but that means increasing unemployment, that means that more companies are going to end up, I think everyone agrees. And then I wonder that the government is sticking to the forecasts that underlie the state budget that has been put forward. I think there are many of us here in the Storting asking for new forecasts and new estimates from the Government, because we think it is necessary to adopt the most realistic budget in an uncertain time. Then I record that much of the debate on this very important rescue package that the Storting is now actually providing to the banking and financial sector has been focused on the proposals of the Progress Party relating to options, bonuses, etc. I think it seems very strange that the majority, all except the Advancement Party, believe it is absolutely necessary to lift a moral index finger and direct it to the bankers and the rulers and say that no one will understand it if dividends are now taken, and if bonuses are now given, but we do not intend to do anything on the occasion of the matter. Normally, in principle, the Progress Party would not promote such a proposal aimed at private-sector enterprises. But we believe that this is an extraordinary situation. I believe the Minister of Finance is well on the way to confirm this when she says that the consequences of this – if you hadn't prepared this package – would be very serious for the banking industry. Values could have been lost, banks could have gone over the end. Without this package, it might happen. Then you set up something. So I noticed that the Minister of Finance was honest enough to say that you're going to pay for this. There has been the argument of the Progress Party all the way because there is no free lunch. Many who have participated in this debate are trying to minimize this and say that this is so adapted to the market that there are virtually no costs associated with it. Of course it is. The ones who get the bill are the loan customers. You don't come from that. It is not that it is free for banks to raise these loans. The associated costs will be redistributed to loan customers. This was confirmed by the Main Financial Industry Organisation at the hearing of the Financial Committee. These loan customers are ordinary people with mortgages. It is holdings around the whole country that need capital. In such a situation, where we see that almost all other countries in the world are making this kind of demands, Norway is not going to do so. The argument from the majority is that it's about the content of the package, not the fact that you're giving a package. I think that's very strange, because if there had been no problem, we wouldn't have had to set up a package either. But we do. Then, in this extraordinary situation, I believe that it would have been quite natural to make such a claim. It chooses the majority not to do so, despite the fact that there are many parties in this room who, in all other normal circumstances, believe that it is necessary, but who for some reason have made it clear that now it is not necessary. We're honest enough to admit that in a normal situation we would never have suggested it, but we believe that it is now necessary. I don't think people will understand that the big crowd's conclusion of this is to lift a moral index finger, but not to do anything about a problem that I think is 98 pst. by the Norwegian people agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1731	Today, Stortinget is considering a package of measures for the Norwegian banking community, which has come into an acute liquidity crisis. Perhaps both the banking industry and the government should have seen at an earlier stage that the current situation could arise. However, Norwegian banks are solid, with good capital adequacy and low losses. The problems in Norway therefore come as a surprise to most people. The international financial euro started over one year ago and has only increased in scale and seriousness from month to month. The background to the crisis is that many financial institutions have given loans they should not have given. As a result, banks have gone overboard. The liquidity crisis is almost a side-effect of the real crisis. Banks dare not borrow each other's money, for fear that the borrower will go bankrupt. It is a paradox that Norwegian banks that have so far had few defaulted loans, and low losses, are also affected by the lack of liquidity. Liquidity, which is a fine word for money, is the oil that makes the wheels go around. Without liquidity, not only the banking system stops, but the entire social machine. That is why it is so important to adopt the measures we are dealing with today – not because the banks have run themselves into the ditch and need to be scared, but because the international crisis of confidence has infected Norway and in worst cases can result in people not getting housing loans, companies not having to implement investments and jobs being cut off. This is precisely the point of getting the action package attached and put into practice. I agree with the thorough assessments made by the case-speaker at the start of the debate, and will particularly underline the importance of the rapid implementation of the action package. The economic operators who met at the hearing of the Financial Committee on the matter provided clear advice on immediate implementation. The size has acted very quickly, and it has been possible because all the parties have been constructive and seen how important it is that the matter is not used in a political game. The progress game has advanced a proposal that would probably lead to the release of the package if the Size had joined it. Fortunately, the Progress Party is on its own on this proposal. The Financial Committee and the Stortinget have shown great efficiency and responsibility in this matter. During the hearing, Managing Director Arne Skauge of the Financial Industry's Main Organization said that the Stortinget has been at its best here. It was a wise statement by Arne Schauge. What has been particularly important for the government party in this matter is that the liquidity crisis should not affect ordinary people. Money market interest rates have to go down to a more natural level, so that housing rates can stabilize and gradually fall. In addition, it is crucial that the wheels of the enterprises should be kept going, so that the workplaces are not compromised and brought down. The action package that we are now debating is a good one against the banking industry. That's clearly positive. The Financial Committee has, in its opinion, pointed out that one in the further handling of the case must ensure that stand-alone savings banks without mortgage credit can also benefit from it. I assume that the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank will ensure that this condition is met. The financial market is now clearly turbulent. Therefore, we must be humble and recognize that the further development in the matter we do not have full control of, either in Norway or internationally. For this reason, it is a central point that the Government, the Norwegian Bank and the Banking Authority must follow the situation very closely, that close contact is maintained with the Stortinget, and that new measures are put into effect quickly if necessary. I have full confidence that the Minister of Finance will handle matters based on these statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1750	It has been embarrassing to observe the government's rhetorical curvature in the context of the international financial crisis. Three weeks ago, the finance minister stood up and claimed that the crisis was an American phenomenon and that it was due to the unregulated US financial market. The Norwegian market, on the other hand, was transitory, and some crisis could not arise here. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance argued that this was the way the Progress Party wanted the market to work, and suggested that if the Progress Party had managed Norway, we would have a similar crisis here. And encouraged by the media, the Minister of Finance went further and further, and after a hallelujah meeting with the Swedish government, the Minister of Finance ran to Dagsrevyen on Friday, October 3, claiming that the market economy had gone down. This must have been a highlight of the Minister of Finance's political career. Now the United States wasn't just the biggest threat to world peace, but the United States had stumbled into its own religion, the market economy. Everything worked for this Government. After a while, we experienced an increasingly less slippery Minister of Finance. First, it was found that the challenges with the US money and credit market were not primarily due to a lack of regulation, but that the regulation was uncoordinated and with conflicting mandates. This was clearly learned by the members of the Financial Committee when we visited the United States in 2006. In addition, the United States has an unculture for political review of supervisory tasks, such as: has led to legislative decisions to allow low-security residential loans. This led, among other things, to: that several groups of poor paying people were given housing loans they should never have received. At the same time, US housing loans are linked to housing. That means that when housing prices fall, and the values fall below the value of the mortgage, the Americans can give up the key to the bank, while they themselves become indebted. Furthermore, under strong political pressure, the American Governor chose to keep interest rates artificially low. This policy led to the following: several received loans, finance peaks and housing loan intermediaries received large bonuses, the politicians were re-elected, and the Governor of the Central Bank was successfully explained. Finally, the bubble broke, and more and more rotten mortgages appeared. During the hearing of the former governor of Congress last night, Alan Greenspan admitted that competition has not been good, and that the system allowed some greedy ones to take risks for which others ultimately had to pay. So you've been home to the market. I have recently recorded that some politicians have tried to knock political coins on the financial crisis. These have then chosen to underline that in the last 50 years, the market economy and trade have led hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, and, perhaps even more importantly, the market economy has contributed to political freedoms and the distribution of power, while the plan economy, which is the socialist's favorite, has led to the opposite. Is there at all an example of having political freedoms without a market economy? I don't think so. Then back to Norway. After a few days, the government suddenly discovered that Norwegian banks and financial institutions were part of a global financial market. And the many regulations that the Minister of Finance claimed would prevent the financial crisis in Norway were suddenly not so effective anyway. And now the rhetoric was another — from almost no consequences, due to a regulated market, that the financial crisis would now have major consequences with the need for exceptional rescue measures. The action package adopted today by Stortinget underlines this. NOK 350 billion is approximately: 15 pst. of Norway’s gross domestic product, while the package of measures in the United States amounts to approximately DKK 4 500 billion. 5 pst. of US GDP. Now there is a difference between these packages of concrete money and guarantees – I am fully aware of it – but it says a little about the perspective of what we are actually adopting here. It can be interpreted in several ways, but at least it's obvious that the government had little knowledge of US credit regulation. However, it may be more serious that the Norwegian authorities did not understand the impact of the financial crisis on the Norwegian money and credit market. Finally, I would like to draw attention to one of the comments made by the Progress Party in the vote on this matter. In fact, the global money and credit market is providing enormous liquidity through the many measures now being implemented worldwide, without matching liquidity with productivity growth. With the experience of the 1970s, it is possible that the many liquidity packages now being launched could lead to galloping global inflation, making the problems of the world economy even worse, yes, almost unmanageable, and a contribution to lower interest rates is at least not. It's not like this will happen tomorrow, because it's just now that liquidity is needed, but all of these measures work in parallel, and the world economy is starting to function again, we are facing a great deal of liquidity where there is no matching productivity growth, which allows us to face major inflation challenges globally. Everyone here in the Storting must be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1778	The size will today adopt the Government’s proposal for a financial industry package of measures. It's important to the country. It is important for Norwegian jobs and for all those who feel concerned about high interest rates. Before we presented this package of measures, there was an imminent risk that critical functions in the Norwegian community would be overcome. The companies were at risk of not obtaining loans for profitable and necessary investments. Trade could stop, because many were losing confidence in the payment system. The basic social function of the banks, which is channelling money from those who save, to those who borrow and invest, was in the process of collapsing. This was a threat to the Norwegian economy, a threat to Norwegian jobs, and many families also felt concerned about interest rates, because it helped to push interest rates up. Lack of capital pushed interest rates up, and many felt uncertain about houses and homes. The action package for Norwegian banks has contributed to the return of the banking system to its normal functioning. The State budget provides for lower interest rates. The Bank of Norway lowered the interest rate last week. The money market rate has fallen, and announced interest increases from Norwegian banks have been cancelled. When the general level of interest falls, banks must also follow up on reducing interest rates for their loan customers. It was essential for the authorities to work out the package of measures and to develop it in dialogue with the financial industry. The banking associations have characterised the measures as good and effective. The measures will cover the entire industry and all the banks of the country. In such a difficult situation, it was also essential that we acted quickly, both by designing the package, and by the Stortinge making its decision here today. I would like to commend the Stortinge for good political craftsmanship and for an important contribution to this crucial situation. It was also important for the Storting to reject all attempts to delay treatment and implementation, but instead to concentrate on a comprehensive package that helps to mitigate the effects of the international financial turmoil in the Norwegian economy. The problems in financial markets have reminded us again that there is a close partnership and dependency between the authorities and the market, between the state and private capital. This dependency goes both ways, and it's vulnerable. This partnership is central to the Norwegian model. In our mixed economy, it's one of the supports. It is absolutely vital for the welfare community that we have good and dynamic private companies that create values that we can distribute. Private enterprises and competition in a market promote high value creation, low costs and innovation. But if that's what the international financial crisis has taught us, it's that the market cannot be left to itself. Market forces must be regulated and controlled. The market cannot control it, it must be governed. And the market needs the state as a helper, partner and regulator. The development of the Norwegian welfare society after the war has been possible because this partnership has worked well, and because both parties have been conscious of their responsibility for it to work. The Community has set up as a facilitator and creates a good framework for private enterprises. The Community provides important infrastructure in the form of roads, railways, ports and other communications. The Community contributes to private value creation through the education system. Everyone has equal opportunities, and many get a lot of education. The Community contributes to private valuation through the health and pension system. When large enterprises in some countries are now at risk of going to an end, it is among other things. because they have very high expenditure on health insurance. In Norway it is the community that takes that bill. In return, we pay taxes, as individuals and as businesses. The state provides a variety of facilities. Predictive protection of Norwegian interests and a prudent management of resources have laid the foundation for one of the world’s most successful oil and gas industries. Statoil and Hydro became important instruments in this sector — with the state as its owner and because the state was the owner. The Norwegian power sector has also been developed through strong public ownership. Norwegian farming has its origins in publicly funded research and has become an industrial adventure, among other things. thanks to a sustainable concession policy by the authorities. The Norwegian defence industry has been developed with the state as its owner and with state home purchase agreements. The district Development Fund, SND and Innovation Norway has changed the name of an active country and the instruments of the community to assist private capital in creating values. This is what thousands of Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises have seen today. Even big businesses are born this way. The Norwegian solar photovoltaic industry started with State instruments to mitigate the effects of industrial closure in Glomfjord, Northern Ireland. It's in this context that we need to evaluate what we're doing for the banking system now. For the Norwegian banking system has also been developed through a close partnership with the State. During the severe banking crisis of the 1990s, the state’s efforts ensured a continued strong Norwegian banking sector. State ownership, good state regulation and supervision and good financial industry policy have given viable Norwegian banks. In other words, there are a lot of industries and a lot of private enterprises developed through an interaction between the country and the market. This good cooperation is central to the Norwegian model. As politicians, we must be conscious of that. We have to understand our role, and what role private business should play. We need to understand our responsibilities. But this goes both ways. Private business must also be conscious of their responsibilities. The Norwegian model works best when it is well balanced. It assumes that private capital recognises the interdependence. It presupposes that companies understand the benefits and privileges of the community, and not least: it presupposes that they act as they have understood this interdependence between authorities and the market. Sometimes we see sad examples of the opposite. I will therefore warn the business community in general and the banks in particular not to show sufficient social responsibility in the situation we are now. It simply will not be understood whether the banks and their management implement unreasonable reward systems in the situation we are now in. Today’s debate and decisions show that the whole community provides such an important industry when it needs it. It is essential that those in charge of this industry understand the responsibilities and obligations it brings. The Government has adopted guidelines for remuneration to managers of enterprises in which the country owns. Restrictions on bonus payments have been adopted. Options programmes have been terminated. In this way, state ownership contributes to the moderation of executive wages. It is important that the Storting make its decision today and that action be taken quickly. However, it is also important to be aware of what these measures actually are — and are not. They are neither a gift package nor subsidies to banks. It is also not an allocation of NOK 350 billion to the banks. To put it simply, we get the banks access to what was a dramatic lack of money. Without money, the banks don't work. Without working banks, the economy stops. But these are services banks have to pay for. Services have a market price, and they must pay. The situation is still serious in the international economy and in the Norwegian economy. We note the effects of the international financial crisis on a daily basis. Nobody knows how strong and how long we'll notice the effects. We know that the international financial crisis will affect Norway in many ways and in many areas. We've seen it on the pressure on interest rates. We've looked at the fall in share prices, and we've seen it in the movement of the dollar. This week, the International Monetary Fund provided estimates showing that economic growth in Europe will decrease from 1.3pst. in years to 0.2 pst. Next year. There is a sudden stop in economic development. Norway has a small and open economy. We sell more than half of what we produce to the rest of the world. When foreigners buy less goods and services, this matters to us. Internationally, we see coordinated action being taken in relation to the challenges now facing the world economy. World leaders will meet in November to discuss reforms in the international financial system. That's good. This is a time for action and accountability, a responsibility that will be extended today in this Chamber through the decision of the Storting. The same responsibility for what serves the community must also be clearly visible and present in the banking and financial industries in the future. Through joint efforts and action, we can meet the challenges facing our country in the international financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1824	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1827	Let me say to the Prime Minister, like what I said to the Minister of Finance, that I thank you for the initiative that the Government took with me to have a dialogue with the opposition for a while back, when they started working on these issues in concrete terms. We appreciate that. I think it makes sense to have this kind of cooperation and tone in the future. I also want to address some of the same question I asked the Minister of Finance. One of the points was that when we were going to deal with the state budget, I had a wish that there might be elements in it and in it presented as the Financial Committee, which might have been served by the fact that they were standing together, and that there was also a good dialogue with the opposition. Now it is not that I automatically believe that there is more money to solve everything. That's not what I said. My question is: Are you interested in having a dialogue, and are you willing by the Government to look at parts of the government budget in conversations with the opposition? Could it also be a expressed wish of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1836	The State budget provides for lower interest rates. We are dedicated to taking care of it and ensuring it. We have also made it clear that we have two sets of instruments: budgetary policy – it has been outlined and presented in the State budget. And then we have monetary policy – it's about interest, but also about liquidity supply, money to the banking system. We believe that this budget is well adapted to the situation we are now facing, because the first line defence, what must first respond, is the monetary policy through the provision of liquidity, which we already see as a significant commitment, and then there should be room for lower interest rates. I believe that if the Progress Party invited to budget talks, they would be very short-lived if the answer was that the framework should be held. So I don't think there's any reason to speculate in any possibility of conversations of that nature, because the discussions with the Progress Party would consist in the fact that the Advance Party would ask for a substantial increase in money use. It will undermine the possibilities for lower interest rates — and we are committed to ensuring that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1841	The first part of the post to the Prime Minister was heard as a new gospel with the beginning: from state you have come, and to state you will be. I'm not going to go into that debate, we can do it another time. I think the situation is now more serious than the usual social-democratic attempt to re-write history. What I'm concerned about, and what are the challenges ahead, is how we are moving along with and interacting with other countries in ensuring transparency, ensuring that the market economy works well and making sure that we do not get into a protectionist circle as a consequence of what has happened. Because it's quickly made that protectionism is close to the moment we have this type of big crisis. My question to the Prime Minister is simple and straightforward: What international dialogue does the Government now have with regard to the joint counter-action of the kind of economic development being the answer to the current crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1851	I have respect for the fact that short lines do not imply the major ideological debates, but at the same time, I believe that the dramatic development we are now seeing in the international economy, invites us to think a little in principle, invites you to consider a little bit of the long lines of what's going on. I tried to say a little about it in my article, about the strength of the Norwegian mixed economy, where private and state work together and get a lot when you respect each other's roles and functions. As for the need to avoid protectionism, I fully agree with Solberg's representative. One of the major mistakes made in the world economy after the stock exchange fright in 1929 was that countries turned inward, restricted trade — and it got worse. That's not Norway's message. Our message is just to keep an open trade. It is a message that has been discussed, inter alia: In conversations I've had with Gordon Brown. There will certainly be a theme in meeting Nordic prime ministers this week, where we will all be discussing the financial crisis – including the finance ministers. But the whole point is to have open trade across borders, we also need to have policies and regulation across borders. So capital floats freely. The problem is that policies stop at borders. So we have to have more policies across borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1858	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for crystal clear talk about leadership wages and bonuses. I assume without a doubt that the Government will ensure that this is implemented, which is clearly in line with the will of the Storting, who owns in different contexts. Secondly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for working together on this important crisis response in the financial industry and the open line that the Government has taken towards the opposition in that context. Thirdly, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it would not be in the same spirit to add to more open cooperation on the budget presented by the Government. I understand that the government believes that it is the best budget that can be in this situation, but we know that there are coming new numbers, new forecasts already next week. You might think the government would want to make adjustments. My predecessor, as the parliamentary leader, said that a good budget was even better. I would like to invite the Prime Minister to say a little further in the autumn, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1867	First of all, I would like to thank you. And I would like to thank the representative, Højbräten and Stortinget, for having received this meeting. It's been important in itself. There is a strength in the Norwegian action package that there is such broad consensus. And we're going to use ownership in companies to limit management wages. We're doing it, and of course we're going to follow it up. With regard to the state budget, it is now under discussion in Stortinget, and I believe that it is not through this kind of debate that we are now going to carry out the budgetary review. But we believe that the budget now presented is well adapted because it gives room to make sure that we can get lower interest rates, and we believe that that's what we call the first line defense in terms of helping to secure the Norwegian economy. That is the basis for the examination of the budget now to be carried out in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1876	We are today adopting a package of measures for the banks on which there is a broad consensus, and we all hope that it is enough to solve the banking problems we have had for some time. But there is a lot of evidence that the financial crisis can go deeper and beyond the economy in other areas, that businesses are having problems. By this week at the latest, we have heard about the first shipyard in the West that has gone bankrupt, and there may be reason to fear that it will be more. Now we've been behind us for five years where there's been amazingly good times. We have been able to take the companies and the jobs a little too far. They have come sailing without politicians having to engage themselves so strongly to get it done. Now we might be going into times when companies need a pat on their shoulders, better tools and that way they want to live with tighter live straps and take care of the jobs. I am not asking for a package of measures for businesses beyond spring, but for new policies such as: when we come to the revised national budget, which can recognise, stimulate and strengthen businesses to take care of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1885	As we approach the revised national budget, it is natural that the Government is going through the financial instruments, the arrangement of the budget and how well the budget is taking place, in the light of what we then know about economic development. It's a natural opportunity to settle the status and see what is necessary, depending on how a very uncertain future has evolved until then. Otherwise, I think it's a challenge for us as political trust elected leaders, whether it's in the Storting or in the Government, to find the balance between describing a serious situation, where we, among other things, are. Today, too, new exchange messages are getting negative and conveying concerns about it, but at the same time not contributing to blackmailing, making it worse than it is. I think the best answer to that is to describe reality as it actually is, and underline the uncertainty. This government is committed to securing Norwegian businesses. We believe that the budget helps to ensure value creation in Norwegian companies by facilitating lower interest rates. Then we will continuously assess the need for new and further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1894	As the Prime Minister had in mind, there was an exceptional situation and critical circumstances that made this package necessary to promote. That's why there's also a collusion behind the package. That's good. And then we're going to hope that this package is adequate and properly arranged, so that it's enough to fix up to more normal conditions, both in terms of getting loans and in terms of enabling loan customers to get lower interest rates in the future. But it's said here that this is market conditions, and that this is little risk. I'll ask you another little question. Even if one now has this certainty in mortgages, mortgages, we can have a situation where housing prices fall dramatically. My question to the Prime Minister is: if we get a situation that we had, for example. in 1988-92, where housing prices fall dramatically, will this package also pose a small risk to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1903	Norwegian residential bonds are secure papers. It's never so that there's zero uncertainty, but they're among the safest papers. Only government bonds and a few other types of papers that are considered to have a higher collateralisation than the type of mortgage bonds that the country is now going to exchange for. The risk taken is paid for. The certainty lies partly in the fact that the banks are behind these bonds – they are the ones we are exchanging for – and partly in the fact that the underlying values of the bonds reflect the value of the dwelling well below what is the market price today, i.e. a share of the market price. The third security lies in the person behind this bond. So there's multiple layers of security. I think there's a broad consensus that these bonds have high security. But because government bonds have even higher collateral, there will be a difference when you exchange housing bonds into government bonds. It's a market-based solution. There has been a similar experience in Sweden. What we're doing in Norway is we're going to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1910	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1915	We are experiencing a global financial crisis in these days, and we are constantly getting the impression that, although we have a very solid national economy, as a nation, we are totally dependent on working with international solutions to the crisis. There is also reason to hope that the world community will be strengthened out of the crisis and that we will develop methods that will improve our international interaction. In our modern society, we depend on having a banking system that works. When uncertainty and uncertainty cause loans and funding between banks to cease, the entire private market and the entire business market will immediately mark it. The size has now been invited to adopt a package of measures to help restore market security. The government's proposals are good, and they have been further improved through the consultations with those covered by this package. I also believe that good political craftsmanship has been shown to calm down in a difficult situation. It now seems quite clear that all banks can avail themselves of the package of measures, but I think it is worth recalling that we have some important special institutions that must not fall outside. In this context, I would like to mention municipal credit, export finance and the municipal bank. These institutions are very important pieces of the financial system, and I assume that the Council of State and the Ministry will ensure that these institutions also participate in the package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1926	I'm not going to use the afternoon to go up the debate again. What made me take the floor was the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who I know is a theoretically well-trained man. He developed the quantity theory, which is an old theory of price level and inflation, which has roots all the way back to the 1500s, as far as I'm able to register. The reasoning, as you also note, has one weakness, and it is whether you have taken into account the rate of circulation of the money when you have thought of it. The problem today is that the money's circulation rate is falling. The banks are sitting on their money and don't lend them out. Then liquidity can increase without rising prices. I therefore believe that the reasoning you have drawn falls into today's situation. At the end of the day, I just want to say that this has been a good and a collusive debate, which I hope we can get more of with such broad political consensus in difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1933	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 334]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1941	The increase shall then be added to the number of cases. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e1949	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Storting meeting on 23 October 2008 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e2352	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to develop and implement a system ensuring that financial institutions using the package of measures proposed in St.prp. No 5 may not implement bonus and option schemes, or pay dividends in excess of risk-free interest, and furthermore that the government’s policy on directors’ salaries is followed as long as the scheme is in place.» [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-24.ana.ud910e2410	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Rule 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
