ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e96	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sorrow that we received the message of the former Trustee Liv Marit Moland's death. She died on October 23rd, just 60 years old. Liv Marit Moland was born on Hisøy on 15 January 1948, as the daughter of counsellor Leif Kaare Moland and shopkeeper Hjørdis Lied. Life Marit Moland was a strong social enthusiast, concerned with justice and with the burning care of the weak and vulnerable. The Labour Party became her party election, and she made a great effort there for almost 30 years. She was the cleaner of the profession, and her political interest was seriously guarded after the cleaning strike in 1974. Then she had worked in the ISS for a year. She was organized in the Norwegian Labour Union from 1 October of that year, and the trustees came quickly. She was a member of the National Government of the Labour Union from 1975 and later served as a member of the Federal Government from 1982 to 1991. She was elected to Hisøy Municipal Council in 1979 and became Hisøy's last rapporteur before the municipality was merged with Arendal, Tromøy, Øyestad and Moland in 1991. She was also elected to the first municipal council in the municipality of Arendal. She served as chairman from 1992 to 1997 and was vice-president from 1994 to 1995. In 1997 Liv Marit Moland was elected to Stortinget. Here she was a member of the family, culture and administration committee until 2001. Following the election in 2001, the Workers' Party lost its second mandate in East-Agder, and Liv Marit Moland was alternate in the period 2001-2005. She has had a lot of work in addition, both in the party and in the municipality. Until the municipal and county elections last autumn, she was next to a resumed career in Arendal City Council, among other things. Chairman of Arendal Port Government. Unfortunately, in recent years, Liv Marit Moland has had to cope with both occupational diseases from a physically hard work earlier in life and heart disease, for which she finally had to lose weight. With the death of Liv Marit Moland, we have lost a good, warm and socially engaged human being. We light peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e124	The representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e149	Siri A. Meling – on behalf of Finn Martin Vallersnes, rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e152	A Joint Committee recommends consenting to the approval of Protocols of 9 July 2008 on the accession of Albania and Croatia to NATO. NATO has an important role to play in contributing to peace and stability in Europe, and the inclusion of Albania and Croatia is important for building sustainable, democratic structures in the Central and Eastern European countries. NATO has an open door policy. This means that all European countries meeting NATO’s requirements are welcome. It is important that the alliance has this open door policy also for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e161	NATO reaches a new milestone with the inclusion of Croatia and Albania by the accession of the two countries to the North Atlantic Treaty of 4 April 1949. Can I add that after the fall of the Berlin Wall, both the EU and NATO have played an important role in ensuring democratic development in Eastern Europe and in the Balkans. In fact, the role of NATO is often underestimated in this context, but through the Partnership for the Peace Programme and the Membership Action Plan – i.e. the MAP status – NATO has since 1999 helped to stabilise fragile democracies in post-Soviet areas and former Eastern Europe. NATO has helped to build sustainable and democratic structures in these countries. An overall committee underlines that the alliance thus contributes to the development of a stable Europe which, together, can meet new safety challenges. Let me add that the inclusion of Albania and Croatia underlines and confirms that the future of the Balkans is also within the framework of Euro-Atlantic cooperation. Stability and development not only in Croatia and Albania require Euro-Atlantic integration, an approach to both the EU and NATO. At the NATO summit in Riga, both Serbia and Bosnia were included in the PfP programme in NATO. For a longer period, Norway had the NATO Embassy in Belgrade and contributed, among other things, to the to a strong democratisation of Serbia's armed forces. Today, we welcome Croatia and Albania to see that several countries in the Balkans are included in the Euro-Atlantic community. Then it's important that someone helps resolve the conflict between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as it is called, so that Macedonia can also secure membership in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e174	I take the word because I think it's important to highlight that it's a big event when we get two new allies. It's the biggest commitment we can make, to take on solidarity security guarantees for other countries, who also accept it for us. I am pleased that the Committee has adopted a unanimous position, which demonstrates the cross-political consensus on the importance of NATO's enlargement for Europe and our own security. This is a line that Norway has supported. We have supported the countries that have been candidates, and we are now satisfied that they have come in. The combination of the perspective of NATO membership and EU membership has had a profoundly democratic and reformative effect on these countries. With this expansion, Albania and Croatia, NATO will be composed of 28 countries next year and large parts of formerly block-shared Europe. The importance of NATO for European security is particularly evident in the Balkans, from which these countries come. This harvest is 13 years since the Alliance took a role here, and Albania's and Croatia's accessions show how fast progress has been made. These two countries are now democracies; they contribute as regional bridge builders. In Kosovo, they are shoulder to shoulder with the Allies, and they have taken the step from asking for their own safety. I have visited Croatia and had conversations with Albanian leaders, and it is an impressive piece of reform and change these countries are going through. A country like Albania, which was a country with a completely different social form than our country for many years, is today a country in quite fragile development, capable of combating corruption, capable of generating growth, and capable of breaking democracy in a country with very few experience of it. So there's reason to mark this as a historic day, that the Storting joins. Then I would also like to support the representative Nybakk said in terms of membership for Macedonia. We were disappointed at the summit in Bucuresti when it was not possible for Macedonia to become the third country to join. The Prime Minister of Macedonia, Nikola Gruevski, is invited to Norway on 25 November. It provides an opportunity to reiterate Norway’s desire that this country have the right to membership in NATO and encourage them to stick to this ambition. We encourage this country and Greece to show flexibility and solve this name question, which is the outstanding and obstructive question. The visit also provides an opportunity to mark our cooperation agreement with Macedonia in Afghanistan. This country will participate with a surgical team in the Norwegian army in Meymaneh or other Norwegian units in ISAF from December this year. Montenegro, which was strengthened in Bucuresti by so-called intensified dialogue with NATO, has requested even closer cooperation with NATO through inclusion in NATO Membership Action Plan, MAP. This will be assessed in the future. So the situation, if I may say so, in Bosnia-Herzegovina demanding and has in recent months caused a lot of concern with the danger of internal division in this country, which was so hard hit in the 1990s. This happens in parallel with the withdrawal of the EU-led peacekeeping force. Here, NATO must cooperate with the EU to ensure that what was invested in Bosnia through the Dayton Agreement is not lost. Then I would also say that our relationship with Serbia is particularly important to the Government. I am concerned that NATO's door remains open, so that Belgrade can strengthen its relationship with NATO when they themselves are ready for this. In sum, I believe that the NATO strategy, despite very great challenges, has been a success in the Balkans. It has achieved the goal of a democratic and stable Europe, which is now more fully equipped to meet common challenges to our security. For NATO, it is important to discuss how to contribute to continued stable development. It will also be a theme for NATO's Foreign Minister's meeting on 2 and 3 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e193	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 2 and 3 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 574]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e224	The President proposes that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party and members of the Government be set to 10 minutes and for other speakers to 5 minutes. The President will then propose that five lines of reply be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e231	The Foreign Affairs Committee has addressed the impact of the Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Notices and on Arms Exports in parallel and seen them in the context. That means that we also had a joint consultation on the two documents. As rapporteur for Mr St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008, I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for St.meld. No 29 for 2007-2008, Øyvind Vaksdal, for excellent cooperation. It is important that the Government has submitted a communication that discusses non-proliferation, disarmament and arms control. It is important that the message has a review of different types of weapons and ammunition, from hand weapons via class ammunition to weapons of mass destruction. A unanimous committee agrees that Norway should play a driving role for non-proliferation, for arms control and for disarmament. Let me also underline what the message says about the fact that a minimum level of armor combined with transparency and verification will provide greater security for all, while releasing resources for economic and social development. It is therefore also easy to join the three main objectives of the Government: work for security at the lowest possible level of armor through international legally binding agreements working for a world free from weapons of mass destruction work for the disposal of weapons causing unacceptable humanitarian suffering Let me stress that we must work for disarmament and for dispersal – both are equally important – of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. It is a fundamental part of security policy work. Nevertheless, nuclear weapons are still in a special position in the case of death and destruction. That's what the committee says. Nuclear weapons are in many ways the ultimate weapons of mass destruction. On Hiroshima Day in 1997 – and I still remember it – Eva Nordland gave the main speech at the peace building at Youngstorget. I remember her report from a witness from the terrible August day of 1945, one who told of Hiroshima bomb destruction at a school. Out of 300 students, 17 survived in the first few minutes. The air was soot, ash and dust. It was a scary darkness. From the nuclear cloud came the unfathomable thunder. A gruesome smell spread. The buildings had evaporated to pieces. Soil and roots were burned. People who were not dead were dragging themselves against sources of water that did not exist. I don't think we're able to figure out what's going to happen if a nuclear bomb is many times larger than the two that were released over Japan, were to be used in our neighborhoods, and today the weapons are bigger. This applies not only to the immediate destruction, but also to the long-term consequences for survivors, and for nature, for the environment, for the climate. That is why the Workers' Party has programmed and the Government aims to eliminate all nuclear weapons. This is shared in the setting up of a unanimous committee. The Committee also emphasises the importance of the Communication of the need to build on binding and verifiable agreements and covers all countries. Let me add that we must not give up the non-proliferation regime and the Non-proliferation Agreement, although for some years it may have seemed somewhat distrustful. Norway has a leading role in so-called Syvland cooperation, a cooperation whose strength is that it consists of countries with and without nuclear weapons, and that the group crosses alliance borders. Cooperation aims at bringing together proposals for new measures towards the 2010 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference. But even though the Non-Proliferation Agreement itself is the pillar of disarmament and non-proliferation, I think we also need to get to a separate nuclear convention at some point, as it is today, with conventions both against chemical and biological weapons. I recognise that it may take time to get there, but Norway should nevertheless try to start such work at the next supervisory conference. If we are to reverse the negative trend we see in disarmament, the countries that currently own the largest nuclear arsenals must show leadership. Russia and the United States continue to have 95 pst. of the world's nuclear weapons. So they have to go in front. The President-in-Office of the United States, Barack Obama, has committed himself to visions of a world without nuclear weapons and has proposed 14 measures, among others. ratifying the probation agreement and halting the development of new nuclear weapons. There were as many deaths in Hiroshima and Nagasaki as in tsunami in Southeast Asia in December 2004. The difference is that nuclear weapons are man-made – an intentional event. Now that NATO has set in motion a process of a transatlantic charter to present a so-called Declaration on Alliance Security next year, and then try to create a new strategic concept, a unanimous committee believes that NATO's nuclear strategy must be addressed for discussion. Furthermore, NATO has a major responsibility and a key role to play to ensure that nuclear disarmament is relaunched. Then to a couple of other themes. When we talk about small arms, and when we talk about ammunition, it's important that the two big messages are seen in one context. Many believe that small arms are the real weapons of mass destruction. Handguns must be a central part of disarmament and non-proliferation. Non-proliferation means, inter alia: that handguns and ammunition must not come into the hands of bandit regimes or unstable regimes, if you like, and not in the hands of violent rebels or terrorist groups. Then I would like to add: it is also the case that women and children are the most vulnerable in the context of conflicts, and they are hit hardest by the use of weapons. Reducing the scope of conventional weapons, including access to ammunition, is also an important contribution to follow-up to Security Resolution 1325 on Women in Wars and Conflicts. In the suspension of the export notification, a unanimous committee asks the Government to consider introducing new rules for the labelling of ammunition to facilitate traceability. We also ask that binding international rules be implemented to enable the handgun to be traced back to the seller. Let me add that Norway has one of the most stringent control regimes in the world when it comes to exports of defence equipment, including, among other things. requirements for satisfactory documentation before issuing an export authorisation, and I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government for this. A unanimous committee emphasises the need to pay attention to the human rights situation of the recipient countries and to the need to impose requirements in order to deal with the application for an export licence. This was also discussed in the committee when we had the corresponding communication last year. I am very pleased that in 2007 a clarification of this was included in the legislation of the department. Let me also stress that it is absolutely necessary to reach an internationally binding agreement on arms trafficking, the Arms Trade Treaty, which expresses the current international humanitarian law and ensures that the human rights and development perspective emerges clearly. Regional conflicts, civil wars and ethnic contradictions are currently serious obstacles to development. It is therefore essential that the world community contribute to the prevention, mitigation and resolution of these types of conflicts. If not, the consequences can be animal-purchased. This is also about arms trafficking and disarmament versus upgrading. We remember Rwanda and Srebrenica. We see what's happening in Congo. This would not have been possible in the extent that we see, if the world had not had as much weapons as we see today. In addition to emergency aid, humanitarian aid, aid and various categories of international forces and peace forces, disarmament and work for security at the lowest possible level of armaments are also important. We must ensure that the arms and ammunition do not come into the hands of militant and militaristic groups, among others. in Africa. How much weapons do Taliban and Al Qaida actually have? Where do those weapons come from? What about ammunition? Do we have systems that ensure that our ammunition and arms exports do not end with groups where they were not supposed to end? We still need to ensure both export control and non-proliferation. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e296	First to St.meld. No 29 for 2007-2008. The government has also this year provided a major communication informing about exports of weapons, ammunition and other military material. This Communication reflects the extent of actual exports of defence equipment in 2007 and services and technology related to these goods. The total value of exports in 2007 was about 3.6 billion kroner, which represents significant value creation, and it is also important to emphasise that there is a significant technological development in the defence industry that can also be used civilly. The cancellation message was treated at the same time as St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008, referred to disarmament and non-proliferation. The Foreign Affairs Committee therefore carried out a joint consultation involving both of these notifications. Both the employers and workers in the defence industry were invited to attend the hearing, but I think I have the whole committee with me when I say we were more than surprised when none of them wanted to attend. However, in 12 hours, the producer Nammo contacted the committee, and we found useful answers to a number of questions raised by the committee. One wish that came from several of the organisations during the hearing was to introduce a mechanism for marking and tracing Norwegian-produced ammunition. According to information from Nammo, this has already been widely implemented, as all rough-calibre ammunition produced in Norway is initially labelled, in addition to the fact that small arms ammunition is no longer produced in Norway to a greater extent. In addition, it was a wish from several that Norwegian ownership of arms producers in other countries should result in these following Norwegian rules on arms exports, preferably through harmonisation of the legislation. This time, too, several organisations called for mandatory end-user declarations for all arms exports. From Nammos it was initially in favour of such a requirement as long as this would apply to all operators in the market. However, it was warned that unilateral Norwegian measures would distort competition and thus would not achieve the desired effect. A unanimous committee calls on the Government to work for binding international rules that make it more possible to trace both ammunition and small arms, which may discourage illegitimate placing on the market. During the hearing, there was also a desire for greater transparency about Norwegian arms production and exports. There is reason to stress that there has never been so much openness about these issues as now, and that the government in this year’s notice has gone beyond ever before in providing information on these issues. We are aware of the ongoing assessment of measures to ensure that Norwegian defence equipment is not compromised and the strict enforcement of the export control legislation of the Norwegian authorities is involved in ensuring that this does not take place. In the past, the Foreign Affairs Committee has pointed out that the human rights situation in the recipient countries needs to be more demanding before granting an export licence, and I therefore, like Marit Nybakk, would like to express satisfaction that this has now been included in a clarification of the guidelines. I am also pleased that the committee is also unanimous this time at most of the points in the vote. This is also a long way to go in the case of St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008 on disarmament and non-proliferation. It is particularly important that a unanimous committee, which agrees with the Government's assessment of placing special emphasis on close cooperation with our NATO allies, the EU and Nordic countries in international disarmament cooperation. There is also a broad consensus that the nuclear ambitions of North Korea and Iran are a major challenge for the international community. North Korea concluded an agreement to close and control nuclear installations in 2007 in exchange for supplies of food and oil. The inspectors from the IAEA have since been thrown out, and it must be seen as very likely that the activity of the country’s nuclear installations has been resumed. The international community must now be united to require a disarmament and non-proliferation agreement with the country. This cat and mouse game must be terminated as soon as possible. Nevertheless, Iran is the main threat today to the development and proliferation of nuclear weapons. The Tehran regime has in no way shown the necessary willingness to cooperate and openness to the international community. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, has on several occasions expressed concern about the continuing negative development in this area in Iran. Recently, attention has also been drawn to and expressed concern that the country has a development programme, known as Project 111, where Iran’s medium-range missiles will be able to achieve targets in the Middle East as well as in parts of Europe. The country is now suspected of supporting the development of more long-range, intercontinental rockets. The planning of a rocket shield in Europe must therefore be seen in this context. The government in its communication is concerned that the IAEA should play a key role in the processes to find a negotiated solution to Iran’s nuclear activities and to ensure the complete resolution of North Korea’s nuclear weapons programme. We are very much in agreement with this, but the outcome of the IAEA's activity so far has been discouraging. We must therefore not exclude other possible solutions to these conflicts. The Government claims in the Communication that it is primarily up to Iran and North Korea to demonstrate the necessary willingness to reach political negotiation solutions. We agree that Norway should be involved in maintaining and, if necessary, strengthening political pressure on the two countries until that happens. We also agree that the experience of Iran and North Korea illustrates the need to develop mechanisms that make compliance with non-proliferation obligations more beneficial and strengthen sanctions against countries attempting to break out of the NPT regime. The Government also claims in the Communication that the rocket defence plans in Europe have led to strong reactions, but that such defence alone can provide increased protection against ballistic missiles in a geographical area. However, the Government claims that it is critical that such a defence will lead to increased international security and that threats from ballistic missiles must be faced by a wide range of instruments, primarily political and diplomatic. Of course, all political and diplomatic instruments must be tried first, but with the development of Iran in a fresh memory, there has been little success through political and diplomatic channels. Could it be so wrong to develop a rocket shield that can stop the missiles on the way to their targets? This is not a weapons of attack, but a defensive measure to protect against weapons of mass destruction. However, the government's critical attitude to the rocket shield expressed in the notification and in the comments of the government parties does not entirely harmonize with the government's course of action in the matter. At the NATO summit in Bucuresti in April, the government gave its unreserved support to the final communication, where it decided to continue with the project. As far as I know, it was not moved on as much as a comma from the Norwegian Government, which we on our side of course are satisfied with. It is widely agreed that Norway should have a driving role in non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this work in the future. Finally, in connection with the work with St.meld. No 27, thank the rapporteur, Mrs Nybakk, for an excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e361	May you live in interesting times. It's not a Chinese greeting, it's a Chinese curse. In the disarmament field, we are currently living in really interesting times. The challenges are great in terms of both nuclear and conventional weapons. There is cause for concern when it comes to the fact that the number of nuclear weapons states has increased considerably since the end of the Cold War, and that several countries, with some very different regimes and relationships and willingness to cooperate with the world community, are trying to acquire nuclear weapons. I think we all want a world of more international order and rules, with more international control. We are experiencing a world today with more fragmented countries and with major challenges related to the functioning of international bodies. Dissemination of nuclear technology will increase as the expected expansion of the civil nuclear power we have and look forward to in the years to come. That's why there's going to be new challenges in non-proliferation. We know that terrorists of different types are actively working to obtain weapons of mass destruction, where, of course, the worst scenario is that this type of weapon comes into the hands of some irrational, pressure-up-in-the-heart terrorists who can use them completely without considering the consequences that come after, or who just want the consequences to be only chaos. For Norway, it is also important to see that we still have challenges with nuclear waste and one of the world’s highest concentrations of nuclear weapons in our neighbours in Kola. We don't have to forget it when the attention might be focused elsewhere. It's close to us, and it has significant potential if something happens. We need to focus on the Kola concentration of nuclear weapons. We also live in a time when today's Treaty regime for disarmament and non-proliferation is under pressure. The Russians have suspended the CFE Convention on conventional weapons. This makes verification and reporting more difficult and increases uncertainty and potential tension in our neighbourhoods. We also see that North Korea and Iran play cats and mice with the world community and the IAEA on verification regimes in the International Agreement Agency. They are trying to keep both neighboring countries and the world hostages in this work. Some also seem to use it as a negotiation card for other concessions in relation to financial assistance and assistance. North Korea already has nuclear weapons, and Iran is very likely not far away. Iranian nuclear weapons are at risk of launching a massive arms race in the region. We already see today that a number of Arab countries are starting a civil nuclear cooperation that has the potential to develop into something more. I think there's reason to think about what kind of infective effect it would have in the Middle East if Iran had nuclear capacity. I see it as one of the most difficult and most important questions we have internationally. It's like you're in the middle of an area that challenges old hegemonies, challenges countries with great willingness to pay and payment capacity, and that will want to be in the same situation as Iran. But I don't think it's unconcerned either when we see India, which is outside the Non-Proliferation Agreement, and is also in a arms race with Pakistan, now gets privileged access to the Nuclear Suppliers Group. I think there's good reason to ask questions about what precedent this sets. Today's arrangements are under pressure, but at the same time it's the only framework we have. That's why we share in the Right Government's somewhat reserved line in relation to betting on a completely new agreement. Then you simply risk opening a pandora box, putting the arrangements we have at risk. Then it's better to work out from what we have in such a difficult situation. The challenges must therefore be met jointly. It is important that work carried out in multilateral forums is underlined. The UN, NATO and the EU are the areas for finding solutions to this. We welcome and support the initiative to increase the focus on disarmament work also in NATO, because this is one of our greatest security threats in the future. But the disarmament work must be both versatile and comprehensive. Therefore, it is important to work for disarmament and non-proliferation of conventional weapons, including both small arms and ammunition, chemical weapons, biological weapons and nuclear weapons. The whole of this constitutes a fundamental part of the security policy and must be recognised as being the security policy work for which we have to work hard. Especially the role of small arms and ammunition in modern conflicts is important, although it is possible to have fun at the expense of the fact that when many call it the real weapons of mass destruction, it is probably the one who pushes the trigger or the button, that is, the human being, which is the real weapon of mass destruction in the world. However, Norway has a special responsibility as a producer and exporter of weapons and ammunition. A unanimous increase is supported by the Norwegian regulatory regime. Nevertheless, we do not come from the fact that nuclear weapons are still in a special position with regard to the ability to die and destruction. We share the vision of eliminating all nuclear weapons, but the way there must be based on binding, verifiable agreements and cover all countries. A world without nuclear weapons will be a safer world, but it has to be a world that we're sure is actually without nuclear weapons. At the same time, we have to be realistic. The atom is fragmented, it can't be reversed, the technology is known, and it becomes easier and easier to use. On the way to vision, we encounter an uncertain and sometimes dangerous world. Therefore, clear signals are given to those countries and groups that pose the greatest threat, of crucial importance – that we dare to stand up, not that we bow away. Iran and North Korea are mentioned and appear to be the main challenges today. The EU, the United States and Russia must put in place concerted measures and targeted sanctions against Iran. Contracts to the German and Russian industries can no longer come first. I think we need to put a big question mark on both Germany and Russia in this activity. Neither will American war rhetoric help if we are to gain control of this situation. The threat of nuclear weapons combined with ballistic missiles must be met with all instruments. They must be primarily political and diplomatic, but also others, if necessary. Therefore, the Right does not agree that, in advance and on a purely ideological basis, one should refuse to obtain an option for defensive action in response to the threat posed by ballistic missiles. So that's why we've chosen a different approach from the Government to the issue of US and NATO missile defence in Europe. We support the statement that came at NATO's summit in Bucuresti this spring. Ballistic missiles are an increasing threat to NATO Member States and forces. The missile defense is part of an overall response to this threat. The US missile defence and NATO systems make a significant contribution to meeting this specific threat, but we also believe that further investigation is necessary and will take place under the auspices of alliert. For us, it is the principle of indivisible security of the alliance that is also crucial. We have benefited from the solidarity of the Alliance for nearly 60 years, and I think it would be wrong for Norway to prevent the extension of NATO's missile defence as the countries of the south-east even demand. The government gave the communication in Bucuresti its unreserved support, and we therefore support it, even though it is difficult to see that the opinions are in line with the Declaration of Accession of Soria Moria. Luckily, the government itself had to put aside both the Soria Moria statement and its own high-flying rhetoric, but we still see that the government is trying to ride two horses, one at home and one out among our allies. We are still asking ourselves how the Government can believe that internal disputes, unclear signals and long-term fragmented and confrontational handling of the matter, as we saw in advance of the meeting in Bucuresti, have strengthened Norwegian security, Norwegian reputation and Norway's relevance in NATO. That's why we agree on a note where we point out this deviation. It's in place, because it doesn't contribute to Norwegian security that we're standing there today. The treatment of these cases shows that there is a broad political consensus that Norway should play a driving role in international disarmament. It's going to back up on the right. It is a continuation of the work that Jan Petersen did when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are pleased that the Government is following it up, and that they are strengthening it. I can promise that we're going to follow up, because this is one of the most important areas of work we have right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e401	First of all, thank the two rapporteurs, who have done a good job and have shown commitment, and thank you to the Government, who has provided a disarmament message that has triggered an involvement also in the public discussion. We need that. Many of us were active in the fight against nuclear weapons in the 1980s. The current prime minister, Jagland, edited the book «Before it gets too late», a book that is about getting the will to survive to get around the negotiating tables, and then grab the long road to complete nuclear disarmament. We have to see that it is a long way – and it will still be a long way – but the work must be done with great intensity. The mobilization of the 1980s led to several important disarmament agreements, such as: when Gorbachev and Reagan met in Reykjavik and agreed on the INF agreement, which has contributed to the removal of 80 p.m. the mid-range missiles of the United States and Russia. Then we have to admit that we thought the nuclear disarmament went its way, and most of us let in the years. But now it turns out that the 1990s was the decade when the world went to sleep towards refurbishment, as Kofi Annan has pointed out. Several countries want nuclear weapons. Iran and North Korea have been talking about before me, and I share the great concerns here. Israel probably has nuclear weapons. Over 40 countries have technology to develop it. Therefore, one important response must be to strengthen the role and opportunities of the IAEA, as El Baradei said at the large disarmament conference organised here by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, the United States, under George Bush’s leadership, has terminated the ABM agreement and has been at the forefront of a crazy upgrade. The United States has doubled its defence budget since 2001 and now stands for incredible 48 pst. of the world's total military expenditure, financed by borrowed funds. A new arms race driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism can be won with military power rather than with diplomacy and multilateral work is a major challenge. But now there's a hope, with the election of new president, Obama. He has long given clear support to the four ‘horsesmen’, central American politicians, who were also invited to the disarmament conference held here in Oslo this spring. He has spoken quite strongly, Obama, about the need for nuclear disarmament. In a speech in July, he said this: we want to get rid of all nuclear weapons, as a central part of our nuclear policy. On the websites of their transition regime, we also see that Obama is in favour of a reduction in the number of nuclear weapons in the United States and Russia. He has made 14 proposals for action, to which Marit Nybakk referred. So it's an open window now. But change does not just happen on proposals in a campaign. Changes occur only by their being translated into action. The world cannot afford to do as the world did when Clinton became president, when it was thought that he was giving priority to disarmament. In fact, despite many good promises, the nuclear armaments went on in the 1990s. Therefore, Norway and other countries must now use the opportunity to be clear and clear in their dialogue with the new President. Not least, Norway must be clear and clear that the United States must scrape its missile shield plans. There have also been some exciting signals from Sarkozy. I don't have to argue with the Right Party and the Advance Party that I totally disagree with their rhetoric in this area, and then ask them to read about the signals that have come from Sarkozy. The U.S. pressure to deploy rocket shield radar in the Czech Republic and interceptors on Russia's doorstep, in Poland, has given the Russian hawks greater room to bolt in. The result may be increased upgrading. The fact that states such as Russia and China feel threatened by the United States rocket shield development makes it more difficult to cooperate with the United States in combating terrorism, in non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and in other security issues. Even more important, I think, is that this has helped to increase the political role of nuclear weapons. But, as I said, there have been some positive signals also after the meeting between the President of Russia and Sarkozy. We're going to have to hope that it'll turn out in a major safety conference in the OSCE by the summer. Then I fully agree with Marit Nybakk, who is calling for us to work for a ban on nuclear weapons. Biological and chemical weapons are conventions against, but nuclear weapons are in a special position. That's why we have to work for a nuclear-weapon convention. We need to learn from the work done on class weapons and landmines. Norway has now supported the need for depleted uranium to become part of the UN Disarmament Agenda. The researchers say differently about the health and environmental damage, but further work needs to be done on the precautionary principle in view of negative health and environmental impacts. Then it's important to look at militarisation from a climate, environment and development perspective. First, because the world's military consumption amounts to $1,300 billion per year. years. It's a crazy waste and abuse of opportunities, and it's the abuse of the good minds that's needed for something completely different. It is now important to see these challenges – climate crisis, financial crisis and upgrading crisis – in a context. Costa Rica has launched an exciting initiative by lifting Article 26 of the United Nations Charter. Only to a small extent has the 1992 Rio Declaration, which says something about the link between disarmament, sustainable development and the environment, been under discussion. That's why it's extra welcome now. There is a better basis today than at long last to bring about a disarmament that can promote development. The financial crisis is itself advocating military consumption cuts and hence the channelling of military consumption against growth-enhancing consumption. We have to take advantage of this opportunity and follow it up. I'm asking the Foreign Minister to comment on it. It brings me to the arms export control message. Norway is a large arms exporter in relation to the population. For this reason, Norway has a particular responsibility for strict control of what the weapons and their components are used for, that it is ethically sound, and that it is control of where they are used, that they do not end up in wars that are contrary to international law or in occupying countries. These are clear principles, but equally full of clear dilemmas, such as: the fact that we export to NATO countries without requiring a re-export clause. Both the Storting and civil society are subject to proper control. I fully agree that there have still been improvements, and that improvements are happening, but this is a process in which we need to make sure that improvements are still taking place. Civil society raises important questions and acts as a valuable vigilance in the work of transparency, transparency, knowledge of control and export of defence material. Several organisations commend government and staging, but the same organisations call for stronger control of where war material actually ends, and believe that the end-user declaration must be made to all recipients of Norwegian weapons and other defence equipment. We fully agree with that. Nor shall weapons be exported to countries where there are clear human rights violations. Fortunately, this is included in the 2007 regulations. But then it's a dilemma that we export so many weapon parts to Saudi Arabia. We believe that a strategy should be established for the closure of these exports, preferably a gradual winding-up. Then, like other speakers, I will deal with the work of an international convention on export or use and trade in the weapons of mass destruction of the poor of our time, namely, arms and ammunition. I fully agree with Marit Nybakk that this goes most out on women and children. It is therefore good that we work with Arms Trade Treaty, and I hope that the world will succeed in getting into port with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e441	The impact notification on disarmament and non-proliferation and the notification on export control and international non-proliferation cooperation raise many important questions. For the Christian People's Party, the work for peace and security and getting disarmament and arms control is one of the main issues of foreign policy. I am very happy that in both of the settings we are dealing with, there is a broad consensus on all the main questions. I can also join the main points of view of the report on disarmament and non-proliferation by the case rapporteur, Mrs Nybakk. We know that today there are enough weapons of mass destruction to destroy humanity. The United States and Russia alone have 95 pst. of the nuclear weapons, and they have so large stocks of these that they can destroy each other multiple times. It can rightly be called ‘over-kill capacity’. From such a perspective, we see clearly that it must be possible to increase safety at a lower level of armor than today. It requires reductions to be made in a verifiable and balanced manner. If we do that, we will also be able to release great economic and scientific resources for human and social development. Imagine what a vision it is instead to be able to put these resources into the work to solve the world’s poverty problems and the world’s climate problems! It should be enough to ignite the glow of disarmament in all thinking people. I think it is important to maintain these visions in a debate that is conducted in a climate that is not exactly characterized by the fact that we are in a fast pace towards achieving such goals. Rather, there is a situation characterized by many gloomy clouds in the horizon. But I think it's important that we promote the vision of a nuclear-free world, and that we can have a will to be open to prejudice to discuss different ways forward towards such a vision. There are many aspects of this broad work on disarmament and arms control that are affected in the settings, not least the work on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. It has been commented by several speakers. I'll limit myself to commenting on a few questions. First to the rocket shield: the Christian People's Party initially shares the government's assessment of the plans to extend US missile defence in Europe. A missile defence may provide increased protection against ballistic missiles within a geographical area. However, looking at the possible ring-effects of developing rocket shields, there are broad implications for international security that are more inconspicuous. We must therefore take into account the possibility that the development of rocket shields can counteract detachment, jeopardize agreements concluded, lead to further armament measures from others or make the dismantling of new disarmament measures more difficult. It is important to prevent such undesirable effects, and therefore it is important that the threats of ballistic missiles are also addressed by appropriate political and diplomatic instruments. The government, as it is known, endorsed the final communication of the NATO summit meeting in Bucuresti in April 2008. There, the Government recognises the significant contribution to the protection of allies that the US European-based missile shield will make. Through that communication, the Government has given a clear signal that, on the basis of the principle of indivisible security of the Alliance, NATO is to develop so-called options for a comprehensive rocket shielding architecture extending the coverage of allied territories and populations which are not otherwise covered by the US rocket shielding system. The final communication supports addressing such options at the 2009 NATO Summit. It is important to work to prevent potential undesirable ring-effects from developing such a comprehensive rocket shield architecture by the Norwegian side, and therefore we will actively support policy and diplomatic instruments that can counteract such undesirable effects in the work on disarmament and arms control. Like Mr Valle, I have noticed the performance of the President of France, Mr Sarkozy, and the proposal for a possible OSCE summit at the summer on European security. It would be interesting to hear if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has any assessments of that proposal. So some questions about non-proliferation. The nuclear agreement between the United States and India has several sides. However, from a disarmament point of view, I would like to highlight a problematic aspect. It would have been best for the Nuclear Suppliers Group, where Norway is involved, to have provided that India acceded to the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the Test Stop Agreement as a precondition for this Nuclear Energy Agreement. I am aware that Norway has worked for a long time and that it has failed. It leaves a disturbance and an uncertainty that we do not need in this area. I remember that it is a region that is potentially very dangerous – not to say explosive. Developments are in many ways negative in Pakistan, and the Kashmir conflict is still unresolved and very dangerous for the whole region. Therefore, it would have been desirable to have reached further in these negotiations with India. So two words about Iran. In our view, it is Iran that is today the main challenge of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. There are several people who have been involved in this so far in the debate. The Iranian regime has many dangerous features. The President has said that he wants to remove another country, Israel, from the map, and the regime is driving destabilization in the Middle East by supporting both Hezbollah and Hamas. The regime in Iran has shown far from sufficient willingness to cooperate with the international community in the field of arms control, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, has, for example, expressed great concern about Iran’s rocket development programme. Project 111 covers medium-range rockets capable of achieving targets both in the Middle East and in parts of southern Europe. If Iran were to be able to put nuclear warheads on these missiles, it would seriously exacerbate the security situation. In addition, Iran obviously has major-action ambitions in this region, and I believe that there is a dangerous trend in the Norwegian debate to underestimate how potentially threatening Iran's regime is for the international community, and not just for the situation in that region of Iran is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e464	St.meld settings. No 27 for 2007-2008 on disarmament and non-proliferation and St.meld. No 29 for 2007-2008 on the export of defence equipment shows that there is essentially a very wide consensus in the Storting on these matters and that there is considerable satisfaction with the work of the Government. The plural remarks are there. I just want to touch into some issues that are particularly important from a central point of view. First, just a few reflections about the defence material message. Norway shall not sell arms to land in war threatening war or in civil war. That's right, that's important, that's well said – it's been said for a long time. This old provision gives evidence that the State recognises its co-responsibility for the use of defence equipment produced in and sold from Norway. The state bears the burden of proof in the assessment of whether we are practicing the law in line with the intentions. Therefore, I am pleased that we have developed significant transparency regarding Norwegian export control of weapons, and St.meld. No So 29 gives us a clear expression for this. Openness, which we have developed over time, gives civil society the opportunity to participate in a qualified debate. I just want to stress how vital it is that we constantly keep the pressure on increasing transparency, increasing the availability of civil society, because that is just the way we will manage to maintain the legitimacy of a defence industry in Norway. The production of weapons and ammunition is controversial. It is necessary for legitimacy that we work consistently with the openness and transparency of this. The Committee emphasises the need for a rapid progress in the labelling of ammunition issues, in order to facilitate its traceability. I just want from my party's point of view to underline the meaning of just that. The government is asked to come back and report on this question. I look forward to that. So a few considerations about disarmament and non-proliferation. I am infinitely in agreement with those who have said in the Chamber before today that there is a great deal of concern about developments in the nuclear field. It's on the limit of absurd that we've actually got an increased number of nuclear weapons states after the cold war. There is also a large-scale development of civil nuclear power, which contributes to the deployment of technology, and it will also be possible, on its own, to make it easier for the unauthorised to get the technology into it. This is a point that we take very little into consideration when we discuss the major energy issues in the world. It is definitely important to be concerned that technology and fissile material can get terrorists into her. Preventing dissemination has been, is and must remain a priority area for Norway. I just want to stress the importance of doing what is in our power to substantiate the work of the IAEA, which is absolutely invaluable in this context. That being said, when we talk about the major disarmament processes, Norway has limited influence. You can't succeed in the major multilateral processes and definitely not in the bilaterals where we have no room at the table, without the major powers actually wanting. This does not necessarily imply that we should not be participating, should not use the possibilities. We're going to do what we can to push and push and find the openings to make the good recordings. But at the same time, I believe that where Norway can make a difference first and foremost, it is by contributing to the development of humanitarian law, thus preventing civil suffering in war. In this area, Norway has done a formidable job over the later years. What has been achieved internationally, both in the case of anti-personnel mines and the case we are going to come back to later today about the class weapons, is unusually important. Norway has played a crucial role in tackling these processes. We have a long way to go when it comes to handling, for example. Of class weapons, we're going to have a lot more on board. That job is not finished, but there is a basic work that is crucial. The next process should definitely deal with small arms. I am pleased with the signals that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has sent in that field. I hope the Foreign Minister will come to Stortinget and enter into a dialogue with us on how this process can be carried on. The size, the political parties, have some other inputs that will be important in these processes. I believe some of the key to our success in getting the class weapon convention in place as quickly as we have is that we have gradually found a way of working between civil society and governments. If we're going to succeed in moving forward with the small arms, that alliance has to be at the bottom. That's where we need a discussion with the Government, so the Storting, the parties, can help do that job, which is more difficult for the Government to do. I look forward to a discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs about how we can achieve this interaction in a field that now becomes so crucial to move on to: small arms. Two words on rocket shield at last. I note that the opposition has not collided in the vote on the issue of the development of a missile shield in Europe. The Right Party and the Advance Party have definitely fewer objections to the US plans than both the other opposition and the Government have. The red-green government said in the Soria Moria Declaration in 2005 that ‘we want Norway to work to scrape today’s rocket defence plans’. The government followed up the attitudes of Soria Moria in NATO, and there are no countries that are in doubt that this has been Norway’s starting position. Since then, since 2005, the United States has concluded agreements to deploy rocket shields in Europe with Poland and the Czech Republic, we know that. I interpret the Christian People's Party and the Left's comments there that they understand that in such a situation it was not possible for Norway as a fully-fledged NATO member to take any position other than to join in the conduct of an investigation on interconnection. The center party believes equally fully that the optimal solution is still that the U.S. is putting its plans for a rocket shield aside. I think that the possibilities for that might have increased with a presidential change in the United States. There is every reason to be concerned about the consequences of a rocket shield, when we know how it is perceived in our neighbouring country of Russia, when we know that there can be a real threat there that it can contribute to both increased upgrading and increased military budgets, but also to a higher level of conflict in general, which can also result in this important work on disarmament, which many in this Chamber are concerned about, being weakened. Norway’s primary position on rocket defence remains important as a starting point, where we participate in discussions on these issues, while a firm and comprehensive NATO alliance is of general importance for Norway’s security. It's these two considerations that need to be balanced, and I think the government has the ability to balance these considerations in an excellent way so far. It's not easy, but we're very satisfied with just the balance point that's been found.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e490	According to St.meld. No 29 for 2007-2008 on exports of defence equipment, the value of Norwegian arms exports totaled DKK 3.6 billion in 2007. This makes Norway a significant exporter of weapons, in fact among the largest in the world per year. the population. It is therefore a special responsibility to assure us that weapons or weapon components manufactured in Norway are not used to violate human rights. The left wants an effective arms export control regime. At the same time, we want Norwegian companies to be able to export weapons, weapon components and weapon technology in a legitimate way. This is also of great importance for civil industry in Norway. In other words, the left line is a demanding balance between, on the one hand, enabling the production and export of weapons from Norway and, on the other, a strict control of these exports. The left believes that transparency is an important key to a better control regime. In St.meld. No 29 shows the Government's willingness to increase transparency within the limits set by Norwegian laws and regulations. This is a step in the right direction. It is gratifying that the United Nations is working on an Arms Trade Treaty. It shall increase the control of the placing on the market of all conventional weapons, including small arms. Arms Trade Treaty is about to become a convention on international arms trafficking. It should primarily capture countries that do not have as advanced control of arms exports as for example. Norway has. Given the resistance of leading arms-exporting countries, such as the United States, China and Russia, it may take a long time before an Arms Trade Treaty is adopted and ratified. In the meantime, I assume that the Government, along with other like-minded countries, is doing what it can to influence these countries in the right direction. A large part of our arms exports consists of parts and components that are part of the weapons systems of other countries. This allows these countries to control the final use of the finished product. In other words, it is theirs and not our arms export rules that are being taken into account. Therefore, evidence is required prior to the granting of an export authorisation. Such documentation may be an end-user declaration. Norwegian authorities require an end-user declaration, but not from allied NATO countries. This is based on a multi-annual practice based on trust between the parties within the alliance. On the other hand, some NATO countries require end-user declarations from their allies, including: USA, Germany and Italy. The requirements for the end-user declaration may vary from country to country within the alliance. In practice, it appears that the difference between those requiring retail declaration and those requiring other forms of documentation does not necessarily have to be so large. I therefore believe that a greater degree of coordination would have been desirable, so that the rules within the alliance were as similar as possible on this point. Here you can refer to the input from the defence industry. It does not reject a mandatory end-user declaration as long as it concerns all operators in the market and is not distorting competition. In 1997, a unanimous step was taken to ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes account of political issues in the granting of export licences. This includes democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights. I have looked through the list of countries to which Norway has exported arms, and several of them do not have any democratic rights or respect for fundamental human rights. I would therefore like to stress that the assessment of export licence applications requires real requirements for the human rights situation in the recipient countries. By St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008, it appears that there have been few points of light in the work on arms control and disarmament since the turn of the millennium. Instead, we have seen significant upgrading in a number of countries, especially in the United States, China and Russia. This is a development we don't want. I therefore hope that the powers take over their common interest in weapons in general, and weapons of mass destruction in particular, do not end up in the wrong hands. This can give a political will to start a new disarmament — yes, a nuclear convention. I believe that the way to a forced disarmament is through dialogue and not threats and isolation. Yes, we can actually learn a part of North Korea here. After President Bush's isolation line was announced and negotiations started, the prospects for real disarmament have improved considerably. I now look forward to the forthcoming President of the United States, Barack Obama, following such a line towards Iran. It is possible to obtain increased safety for all at a significantly lower level of armor than today. Here I agree with the Government. This requires the reduction to be achieved in a balanced and verifiable manner. Extensive arms control and disarmament work is currently under way by both the United Nations and other international organisations. In addition, the work done in a number of other multinational contexts — and bilaterally. Norway is an active participant in this work, and I support the Government in its ambition to strengthen the Norwegian driving role. This applies not least to nuclear weapons, where the central task is to secure and further develop the non-proliferation regime. Furthermore, in relation to other weapons of mass destruction and weapons that cause major humanitarian suffering. These include handguns and class bombs, where Norway has contributed to an international ban. As others have mentioned before me, it was interesting to hear the sound of the French President, Sarkozy, last week. He asked the United States to scrape its plans for a missile shield in Europe until a security conference headed by the OSCE next year. He also asked Russia to wait to deploy short-range rockets in Kaliningrad. This shows that the security policy landscape in Europe is actually changing. I hope that the parties will find a solution to the lowest possible level of strength. I am sure that most Europeans want stability and peace, and that future relations in our part of the world will be marked by economic cooperation and not by missiles. Extensive disarmament will release great resources for human and social development, so that the Millennium Goals can actually be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e524	This is, of course, a vital debate, because it touches on one of the most important issues on the global political agenda. I join those who say that it is good that we have a great deal of agreement on the two messages we are discussing today. You can reflect on what happened to the great commitment to nuclear issues and the survival themes that shaped the generations in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. Where did the exposure go? By that I believe that the commitment is strong with some, but as a driving force, something happened in the 1990s and into the decade we now live in. Maybe it was the end of the cold war, maybe there were new big themes like fighting for poverty, climate – important themes in themselves, but that shouldn't justify this issue slipping down on the agenda. That is why this debate, with the involvement of all parties, is important. I find the small proposal in the committee's attitude to highlight disarmament issues in school interesting. I think everyone with political responsibility should write and talk about this in many different contexts. So it's like this, as pointed out by several representatives, that in the field of nuclear weapons there are two interesting features, I think. Both are alarming. One is new, namely that several countries are given nuclear weapons, and as is pointed out by several, it is a paradox after the end of the cold war. But maybe it's not paradoxical anyway, maybe it's more of an image that we have a very focus on the cold war and division of Europe. But for countries elsewhere in the world, this is not such a musculoskeletal relationship, considering the way the world is organized. The second is the phenomenon that still applies, that is that 95 pst. of the weapons are held by two States. It is therefore crucial what these two countries are doing now. We may need to be able to put some faith in the climate change that has been taking place in the American debate, and not just there, in the case of veterans on foreign and security policy in several countries, Russia, the United States, France, Germany, who are re-emphasizing the vision of a nuclear-free world. These are people that we don't normally associate with this movement. It is the old real politicians from American foreign policy who believe that that vision is not necessarily feasible overnight, but that it must be the goal we are heading towards. And the 14 points Obama points out are part of what they've given to the president. It has gone to both parties and has been working on, among other things. as a result of the conference we held here in Oslo in February of this year. Then there are questions about a convention against nuclear weapons. Let me tell you what's my attitude and that of the Government. We don't have anything in principle against such an idea. The idea can be good. It could be the right way to go. But when we have held back on that proposal, it is because we believe that now, two years before the NPT Supervisory Conference, we are not going to launch new major initiatives that can be triggered by a hopefully positive outcome of that conference. After the conference, we're going to evaluate our strategy, and if we think this is the right thing to do, I don't have anything in principle against going that way. We're going to be on in terms of disarmament in NATO, but we also have to recognise that NATO is a demanding organization in dealing with these questions. It is not primarily a disarmament organisation, but we, together with Germany and some others, have been able to get formulations into NATO communiqués on disarmament, and we will continue to do so. Then I just want to say that with regard to Iran, I agree with the concern. Norway has, of course, joined opinions in many different contexts regarding Iran’s efforts to obtain nuclear weapons. But we also need to see it in a regional context. There are also other countries in this region that have very likely nuclear weapons, and that, as a result of Iran's programme, might think of it. Therefore, in addition to meeting Iran with firmness, political solutions must be pursued in the region. Here you can actually get inspiration from Latin America, which has become a nuclear-free region as a result of the great states that chose it as a strategy for security rather than for everyone to get it. Then missile defense is a theme, and I think it's natural. That's the area where there might be a little bit of tension in the settings. I can almost join the comments of the Left and Christian People's Party when I read them. I think these are good points. I disagree with the approach of the Right and the Advance Party, which almost says that we should introduce a missile defence for safety, we should have that option in addition. I mean by that one underestimates the rebuilding spiral missile defense quite obviously triggers. That is, of course, the motivation for the point of the Government and Soria Moria Declaration in that area. So the representative of Solberg claims that Norway was not allowed to move a comma in the communication talks on missile defence – or it was claimed by another representative – but I also felt that this was the way it was produced by the Right Representative. I must respectfully say that is wrong. We took an active part in that discussion. We influenced the text, which could be quite different, and we also got quite ambitious wordings in terms of disarmament, which must be seen in that context. The fact that Sarkozy now comes out is not surprising. It shows that this debate is still going on in Europe. And the wording in the NATO communication shows that this is a matter we're going to have to discuss several times, not just at the upcoming summit, but maybe later. On the other hand, the indivisible security of the alliance is a very important principle also for the Government. This means that the degree of protection granted to some geographical areas of the alliance should be open to those outside, too, to participate. So this is a balance we have to go, and we have to take the discussion on. Then there was India and the nuclear agreement with the United States. I fully agree that the best thing would have been if India had signed the NPT, the Non-Proliferation Agreement. But I believe that Norway was involved in getting the second best, namely extensive control from the IAEA of India's nuclear facilities and a declaration from the Indian Government in connection with that decision, which gives India very clear commitments. Then I'll take a little visit to the Advance Party. The fact that the Progress Party is involved in all these formulations in the setting is good, but then it is this with life and learning. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget a significant cut in the Development and Disarmament line. This is not unexpected, because in most areas it is cut off from the Progress Party on what is called development. This time it's not 85 pst, which is essentially the rule of the Progress Party cut on the development budget, but it's 25 pst. What do we use that entry for? Yes, to strengthen the UN’s capacity to promote disarmament and non-proliferation, in particular the focus on developing countries, support for the NPT, the Convention on Biological Weapons and the Convention on Climate Change, to continue work in the seven-country circuit, to draw with poor countries, to support the work of the IAEA and to strengthen the UN action programme against the illicit trade in small arms. I think it's negative if we lose the opportunity to support it. So I'll end up saying a little bit about the government's commitment and line. The representative Haga mentioned it by drawing civil society. It's a perfectly correct and important observation. What we have done with class weapons could not happen without an alliance that was actually concluded in the 1990s around anti-personnel mines, and which has proved to be a powerful method of working on. We're going to develop it further. The government is going to push in the context where we can make a difference. The representative Haga is right that in many areas it is limited, but it is not immaterial. What she says about the development of humanitarian law, I especially take to myself. It is often the case that humanitarian law comes after the major disasters caused by weapons. After the use of poison gas in World War I, the Geneva Convention got a new addition in this area. We need to avoid, for example: in the case of biological weapons, a disaster must occur before rules are introduced. We're going to work on it. 3 and 4 December, the Class Arms Convention is signed here in Oslo by over 100 countries. It is an agreement that still needs to be worked on. The big countries, the big producers, don't come to sign, but this convention creates a norm. I want to give praise not only to the civil society, the organisations, who have been involved, but also to the Norwegian negotiators, who have worked hard, creatively and ingeniously to get this in place in close alliance with many others. We're going to work on it. The next problem is the small arms. Here we must continue to work on what is the 2001 UN action programme, an important one, but we must also work towards binding instruments. It's probably a tremendously more complicated exercise, because the small arms aren't just one weapon, it's a broad category, it's produced and spread over a low shoe and is in many ways the real definition of a weapons of mass destruction. As far as defence equipment is concerned, I just want to say that Norway has the most stringent export regulations in the world, and we may have the world's most open regime for this, as the report shows. We're going to have this strongly in focus further. I also agree with Mr Haga that this is important for the legitimacy we need for an industry that is going to operate in this field, on which Norway is dependent, and which is dependent on other countries that still need military defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e567	I do not think the Government's attitude towards a rocket defence in Europe became particularly clear after the Foreign Minister's intervention. It continues to communicate resistance from Stortinget’s pulpit, which is also done in the Norwegian press and in the setting, while NATO has given its unreserved support to the communication that one should continue with the project. On security policy issues, it is very important to act with clarity and credibility. I would therefore challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Will he now ensure that the Government acts with the same attitude on this issue both at home and outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e574	The answer is of course yes to that question, but politics is also the art of the possible. It's not like everyone agrees with us out there. There we have to do the best we can. I think we affected what NATO said. It describes, in my opinion, a rather actual relationship, that in isolation, a rocket shield, if it works, can provide protection for a geographically demarcated area. I don't think that's controversial. Whether this leads to increased security for that area and for the rest of the world is a far more complicated question, and there are far less convincing answers. Norway is loyal to what we've been through in NATO, where we have a long tradition of having consensus decisions and demanding processes until then. We're behind it, but we keep arguing. There is much less curiosity from the representative of Mr Vaksdal to President Sarkozy's opinion asking the Americans to draw the whole proposal and to have a new conference in Europe and the OSCE. This is also happening in a country that has participated in this communication. It just emphasizes that this discussion goes on. It will participate in Norway, while, of course, we stand united with our allies on what the alliance has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e581	Let me begin by stressing that I was assigned something that I have not said. I said you had one rhetoric at home and one outside, and what the consequence was, but I haven't been doing a decimal or discussing it. I want to address the question of the argument about it. I believe that the government has ideologically bound itself on Soria Moria in relation to rocket shields. There are reasons to say that the rocket shield may not work, there are reasons to say that the economy is not good enough, and there are many practical considerations around it. But the starting point is that you've ideologically bound to it. And to what have you bound yourself? One has attached to a reasoning where it's about that because of the reaction of others, the possibilities that others are going to interpret this as a basis for upgrading, and so we're not going to do it. And I'm going to ask that maybe I can get the Foreign Minister's assessment of whether he doesn't believe the Russians have read this a long time ago, and that part of the Russian reaction to a shield they don't know is actually that they've read how the rhetoric on parts of the European left is against the rocket shield.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e588	I believe that the representative, Mr Solberg, overestimates the influence of the left-wing side on the Russian debate. Ironizing that it's ideologically justified, I think it's a little weird. After all, a political declaration of government has something to do with ideology and politics. It's nothing to satisfy the one side or the other. There's a deep doubt whether this is the right way to go. When North Korea came to the negotiating table and seems to be heading in the right direction, it's not because of the threat from a rocket shield, I think, but because the United States and the six countries in the six-party talks forcefully used the entire repertoire of politics, both whip and carrot. So it's a deep skepticism that this is the right strategy, which makes us include it in debates in NATO. The debate is still going on in NATO. I think it's going to be a lot more real in months to come, because the Bucuresti statement goes more on an overall level. When it comes to allocating costs, and when it comes to distributing industrial contracts, this is going to be a much more controversial topic, and we're going to hear from many others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e595	I mentioned in my post the play of President Sarkozy last week. So he asked the United States to scrape its missile shield plans in Europe until a security conference under the auspices of the OSCE next year. Furthermore, he asked Russia to wait to deploy short-range missiles in Kaliningrad, and I thought this shows that the security policy landscape in Europe is changing. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess the prospects for such a conference? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this could affect NATO's ongoing process of drawing up a transatlantic charter in order to present a so-called Declaration on Alliance Security at the summit of the anniversary year in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e602	Firstly, I do not accept the link the Russians have made, which says that the US plans legitimize short-term missiles in Kaliningrad or on the Baltic fleet. Let me just say that for the first time. President Sarkozy's proposal we have to study something more, because as it is with some of the suggestions coming from that edge, there's reason to go a little bit into the details to see what it really means, and how it comes into the sequence of other meetings. But I think it's interesting that he's bringing forward the OSCE as the organisation that brings all the countries of this great Euroatlantic region, and so on, giving that organisation a legitimacy and a platform around one of the major themes we're facing. So that's what we're going to study. Whether we're able to have such a meeting in advance of NATO's summit, which is in April, I'm somewhat more doubtful about. But the two can be seen in context in a different way. The April meeting is also going to be a meeting where France may join as a full member of all parts of NATO cooperation. It is no less important in this context and can also be an important input that the OSCE can address the issue later in the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e611	I'd like to go back to the previous round we had. What I understand is that when you commit to being against a rocket shield, as you've done on Soria Moria, you actually take away one of the instruments of negotiation and discussion, because then you have basically some self-imposed restrictions on where to go. It is not that I overestimate the European left, but Russia is a nation of chess players. The Kremlin has a long tradition, regardless of the regime system that may be there, to assess whether it is possible to drive split and rule, whether it is possible to play on other emotions. And I believe that what the government does when it commits itself so clearly and rhetorically accepts the Russian point of view – because that's what you do when you say that a missile defense contributes to the upgrading – is to accept that Russia can go out and say that then we have to upgrade.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e618	I have to take a strong distance from the last end, because that's in no way what you're doing. We're clearly taking the distance from the Russian line. But you can't be for anything you're against, if you're against it and think it's a bad idea, have bad consequences and lead to negative development. Then we have to argue that the resolution among 26 allies is going to be as little crazy or as correct as we can contribute to. I think, moreover, that President Sarkozy would feel mixed up in the honour of being put in the category with the European left side Erna Solberg now thinks is unwise, when he goes out with what he does. It just shows that this matter is being debated in Europe. There are parties from both the right and the left, and I believe that this strengthens the debate that Europe's democracies can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e633	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e636	Like previous speakers, I am pleased that the treatment today has a broad consensus and support behind it, and that from the Norwegian big business, one has been and wants to be a driver of global disarmament. I intend to address my comments to two questions, the rocket shield and the India agreement. Let me start with the last one first. I think it is profoundly disappointing to see that the Norwegian government is putting off its scepticism against the agreement, when Norway and 44 other countries have opened up the sale of nuclear material and technology to India. It is the United States that has been a driver of the agreement, and the agreement concerns civil uses. But we know from, among other things, Iran is difficult to rule out that technology and material can also be used for the manufacture of nuclear weapons. Norway’s position is problematic. India has not signed the Non-Proliferation Agreement and is thus free and outside the International Framework. Nevertheless, India has promised not to resell technology and materials, and India has also promised not to carry out any more testing. It is good that India is moving in the right direction, but it is nevertheless wrong for Norway to reward India with the same rights as countries that have signed the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This means that the pressure to sign in the future, including for other countries, will be minimal. Countries such as Israel, Pakistan and Iran are following this agreement with great interest. Later, we will probably see that these countries, and possibly others, too, will want to achieve a similar agreement. My question is, what is Norway's position? So to the rocket shield: we know so far that there is only one country in history that has given up its nuclear weapons, and that's South Africa. In addition, we know that there are a number of countries that are strongly involved in nuclear weapons, including Iran and North Korea. We have a complex threat picture, and that is the threat picture that Right wants to deal primarily with diplomatic instruments, but you cannot exclude others. The NATO summit in Bucuresti wanted to investigate how the U.S. missile shield, with radar in the Czech Republic and interceptors in Poland, could be linked to a possible forthcoming NATO missile defence. It was also established by everyone who signed the agreement that this would provide increased protection. I fully agree with that. Unfortunately, you may need a missile defense. However, this defence will not be a threat to Russia, and it is therefore very disappointing that Russia, in an illegitimate way, I believe, links this up to the possible deployment of short-range rockets in the Kaliningrad enclave. However, it is problematic that several, including Mr Ågot Valle and the representative Larsen and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, link to Sarkozy's second most recent opinions, but also do not use his last opinion on that occasion. For President Sarkozy, two days after the remarks that have now been widely expressed, the following was said: it is up to each country. Each country must be free to decide whether to participate in the United States rocket shield, says France’s President, Nicolas Sarkozy. First, Sarkozy encouraged the United States to scrape plans to deploy rockets and radar equipment in Poland and the Czech Republic, respectively. As a result, Donald Tusk, Prime Minister of Poland, said, "A third party, even a good friend like France, has nothing to say in this matter." As a result, the President of France apparently changed his mind, or at least partially changed his mind, and later said: Each country has the right to decide whether or not to install a rocket shield, with a clear reference to Poland and the Czech Republic. It may be a last step to respond to the external rocket threat, e.g.: from countries such as Iran, the President added. I fully agree with the remarks here, and I think in the name of honesty that if you use the President's second last statements, you also have to add the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e656	Before Christmas we shall return to the budget debate thoroughly, but the Foreign Minister had a few references to the Progress Party. He says it's almost a rule that the Advance Party cuts 85 pst. on development. It is with respect to report the error, and it is not going to be more correct that the Foreign Minister repeats it often. Then I register the criticism of our cut. When the Foreign Minister lists a number of things that he can't do with our cuts, it's an obvious exaggeration. It was a cut, it wasn't the removal of an entry. But what I wanted to talk about was the fight for a nuclear-free world. As far as these questions are concerned, the Government, in my view, has a strategy that is results-oriented. What has been done in the case of class weapons is after an excellent piece of diplomatic and political work. I just want to draw up a different dimension than any of that that's been taken up before. We are actively participating in NATO, the UN, the OSCE and many other organisations. The Seventh Country Group has us, and it's a good tool. But then there are other forums, more closed, in which we don't have a natural fit, and which we may never get inside the doors, but which we should nevertheless follow closely and with interest. The Shanghai Group is such a forum, where Russia and China participate fully as members. Iran wants to become a member, they participate as observers. However, other countries are also participating in this work, for example. the Central Asian. Norway is in the process of establishing an embassy in the region, giving an increased opportunity for political and diplomatic work. So we need to think in relation to new strategic partners in this important area, partners who may have a different opportunity to engage in dialogue with, for example. Russia, China and perhaps Iran as well. Nor should we underestimate the ability of the former Soviet states to think independently. We saw the last thing about the Georgia conflict, where Russia wanted to support all its views, not least in relation to the break-up republics, but where they did not receive that support. Central Asia also has its unique history in relation to nuclear weapons. It was now said by the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that South Africa is the only country that has voluntarily declared nuclear weapons. That's not true. Kazakhstan had the fourth largest nuclear arsenal in the Soviet Union. Today there are no more nuclear weapons in Central Asia. So this story, the growing political interest of the region and its interaction with important nuclear powers such as Russia and not least China, makes it possible for us there too to have alliance partners that may be important contributions to get a little bit on the way to what we all want: a world in which nuclear weapons no longer exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e667	Based on the speculations that have been in the VG about the ministerial post that can cover all the parties, I am pleased that one today is quite clear that there are some parties that are definitely resigning from the good company. The Foreign Minister has made a very good impression on that, and I am grateful for that. SV's history when it comes to nuclear disarmament and disarmament, most people know, but of course they're also aware that we're against NATO. In the cold war time, we work the third way, and that's the one I want to problematize a little bit in my post. When you look at Soria Moria, how clear it is for nuclear disarmament, and how clear it is when it comes to rocket shields, and that one should scrape up today's plans for a rocket defense, it's not that the Foreign Minister can travel around and say that's not what he stands for. It's very clear what the government stands for. It also applies in relation to NATO's nuclear strategy. We need to reduce the role of nuclear weapons, and we need to reduce nuclear weapons. This is in a way a very breakthrough, seen from my point of view, for a policy that SV has had since the 1960s. The Comrade of the Right and Advance Party, George W. Bush, is on their way out of government offices. Had it not been for this government, it would have been another government, we would probably have been still in Iraq and kept on with the adventure there. Fortunately, we've had a government that pulled us out of there. So now the war chisser is on its way out, and the man who has many hopes is on his way in – the man for "change" and "yes we can". So the question is, does this open up new possibilities for us? I think so. We don't know anything, but we see that he sticks to things he's said in the election campaign. I mean, U.S. rocket shields are provoking. Anyone imagining something else, driving himself away from the truth, is driving a self-deception. I can think of the Cuba crisis when I think about what happened in Georgia, and what's happening now in relation to rocket shields. Because of the domain thinking that the United States has had, there's no doubt that someone has to feel provoked by it. Then there are counter-reactions, and then the father is getting a new nuclear upgrade instead of disarmament, which the government stands for. I understand that Russia is being provoked by what one seems to be doing. But we can hope that's not going to happen. Of course, even if I distance myself from the regime in Iran, I thought that having it as the only explanation to risk starting a new nuclear race would be too thin. Sarkozy's initiative is commendable. I believe Norway needs to be active in that process to support that initiative. So I also think we need to support the new president of the United States by saying that we are ready to support your proposals on nuclear disarmament, we are ready to say no to the missile defense, and at all, we support the initiatives you've been talking about in the election campaign. We have to make this clear to the new administration. We must be proactive, not as it has been with civil governments, just sit and wait for what Bush says, and then follow it up. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister a little bit about this with Russia. The question is, can we do more to improve the dialogue with Russia? Can we do more things? We have a lot of areas of cooperation. We have oil and gas in the north, e.g. We have northern areas where we cooperate. It's e.g. projects in which the Russians are not so interested, the railway from Kirkenes to Murmansk. There is cooperation in the field of research, and there is cooperation in the field of nuclear energy. There is cooperation in many areas. The question is, can we help to strengthen that dialogue and thus reduce the risk of upgrading? Can Norway play a more active role in getting Russia to join the team, and not in a Cold War front position? Now I see that the time is up, and then I don't get time to boast of Norway's efforts. Marit Nybakk, the Secretary of Defense and I were in Canada, and we got a lot of publicity from parliamentarians around the world for our efforts to withdraw money from the nuclear industry at the pension fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e688	I see that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark is not here, but I will nevertheless give him an answer to this with the India agreement. It's a difficult topic, and I also expressed it in my article. The question is, how do we get countries that are now on their way up, with as much commitment as possible? The consequence of not getting them involved may be that they are cutting other roads and are outside the control of the international community. We then worked to find the best option, and we believe we got far in that direction. It is also underlined that this is a unique agreement in unique circumstances, which cannot create precedent without further delay. Then I join the representative of Höglund. In fact, there are other countries that have also reported nuclear weapons. Kazakhstan was mentioned, South Africa referred to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, but it is also partly for Libya and Ukraine. I said in a reply that you have to study carefully Sarkozy's many plays to bring with you the last and the content of what was. I agree with what he really says, that it is up to every country what they choose in such a line, and for the NATO alliance, the principle of indivisible security is crucial. That's also for us. My point is that this shows that there is a very serious debate about it. The missile defense we saw in the fall of 2005 when the Soria Moria statement was written was a NATO missile defense, that NATO was to work for a missile defense. What now seems to stand out is an American arrangement agreed with two countries. It's really hard for other countries to prevent. It gives NATO challenges in relation to this indivisible security, and we are going to take part in that debate. Then I look forward to the budget debate with Høglund. I just want to say that of the many cut proposals that the Progress Party comes into this area, every three are at 85 pst. There's something about the 85 pst rule that makes it good for development and disarmament – there was only 25 pst.Oh, my God! I tried to talk about what the post is about, and with a reduced level of ambition there, I think we get less impact for disarmament. Moreover, the representative, Höglund, now said very wisely about working with new alliance partners, and Kazakhstan is such a country as to intervene in an important region, a country with a long experience and with a lot of drama and tragedies in the nuclear field after repeated testing in Soviet times. Kazakhstan is an important country for Norway. The energy dimension is striking, but also the fact that Kazakhstan will be chaired by the OSCE in 2010. This is one of several new countries we should now be familiar with. To the representative of Langeland, I would like to say two things. Well, there's a lot we can do with Russia to create trust. I think there are a few countries that do more than what Norway does in that area, and the many small and big stories in the north are a good example. But I have to say that I am responding to an article that is almost free to give Russia responsibility, and almost creates the picture that it is by taking action that will give Russia a sense of security, that they can also act responsibly. It's very scary coming from Russia these days about the use of nuclear weapons, the development of new programs, which, I think, if they had come from the other side of the Atlantic, had got much stronger reactions from the representative of Langeland. I think we have to act fairly fairly fairly in both of these directions, and also now hold the democratically elected leaders of Russia responsible for a policy that I am concerned about not only being a response to disarmament measures from other countries. I reject, as I said in my previous post, that there should be a reason to deploy rockets in Kaliningrad or in the Baltic Sea fleet, but there is also a rhetoric about the use of power, nuclear development and the lack of willingness to clean up the waste that the weapon system has shown, which I believe must still have our attention and also have our criticism, while Norway's line with Russia is to engage them in cooperation and good projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e701	We are therefore done with the debate on the subject. Two and three. [[Footing, see page 574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e717	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Then the President will make suggestions that there will be five lines of reply given by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation. The first speaker is Åslaug Haga, who takes over from the spokesman for Saga, Kari Mette Prestrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e728	It is a pleasure to have taken over the Procuratorate of the Classammunition Convention. In Dublin on 30 May 2008, 107 countries negotiated — a further 20 countries had observer status — an international convention on class ammunition. The Convention prohibits the use, development, manufacture, acquisition, storage, transfer and storage of class ammunition. The Convention takes into account those who already suffer as victims of class bombs and obliges the Parties to the Convention to assist the victims and to international cooperation in the clearing of affected areas. When during the day the Storting will turn the Convention into Norwegian law, it is a big day. We should have had both the flag and the soft cake in Stortinget today! There's something about important decisions not always getting the attention they deserve in this house, but this is a big day. It's an important thing, which is going to mean a lot to many people. The Convention, to which many countries are now to join, is a victory for civilians in war – ergo it is also a victory for us. Class weapons are a cruel weapon. It kills, it kills, it kills, it hurts the civilian population, and it also affects people after the end of the war. Class weapons make it impossible to use land for food production. The Convention is also a victory for humanitarian law. Humanitarian law has been introduced with a new and important tool. From the Norwegian side, we have a good tradition of working to develop humanitarian law. And we're going to keep doing that. This is an important step in this work. The Convention is also a victory for civil society. The popular commitment that has stood behind this work has been important. Civil society organisations have contributed knowledge and have been drivers. The burden of witnesses from victims in countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Kosovo, Afghanistan and Lebanon has contributed to the world’s failure to close its eyes to the consequences of these weapons. Cooperation between civil society and governments is beginning to find its form. This convention is an expression of it. It gives exciting perspectives for the future. I will definitely also give tribute to those in the Government who have done a great and important job of getting this in place, and not least to all their good employees, who I know during periods have shown great creativity and had long nights to get this done. When we wrote in the Soria Moria Declaration in 2005 that we were going to work for an international ban on class weapons, we hardly thought it would be possible to have a contract work in place right now. This has in practice gone faster than any of us had believed and hoped, and we're just going to enjoy it enormously. I have praised the Government, but I just want to stress the importance of Norway taking the initiative of the conference in Oslo in 2007, which led to the Dublin Decision. Because Norway has played such a big role here, and because this Oslo conference was initiated in 2007, it is also very gratifying that the signing conference takes place here early in December. Thereafter, the Convention will be open to signature at the UN headquarters and will enter into force six months after ratification by the 30 countries. Let me also just get to be a central party for a little while, because the party has had a great commitment to this for many years. Odd Roger Enoxsen and I took an initiative in the Storting in 2002 to engage in the fight against class bombs. Our party people have been engaged around the country for years. There have been actions, stopping on the UN Environmental Protection Day, there have been signature actions, local mobilisation. Also for my party this day is an expression that yes, it is useful to engage in these matters. Back as case rapporteur: Norway suggested early that class bombs should not be used by Norwegian troops in Afghanistan or on exercises in Norway. Norway has now started processing in order to be able to destroy our stockpiles quickly and efficiently. At the same time, it is still internationally those who claim that class bombs are a necessary weapon in war. It shows that the fight against class ammunition does not end in Oslo in December, but must be actively followed up in all international forums in which Norway and friends of the Convention participate. This is all the more important for Norway at a time when we are participating with soldiers in international operations together with non-conventional allies. As long as there are countries that will not ban class ammunition in their laws, class ammunition will be used in war. That's the brutal truth, but we're just as happy today, and we're going to do everything we can to get as many countries as possible into this work. Norway has now taken a significant step internationally to put in place a moral and legal ban on class bombs. International law, which is intended to protect civilians in war, has been introduced with a new and important tool. Today, we provide our share nationally by prohibiting the use of class ammunition in Norwegian law, and thus using such weapons in conflict with Norwegian forces. I am proud that a total increase in today's treatment makes the convention Norwegian law. It is a pleasure to address the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e762	The representative, Mr Haga, has presented the Committee's position in a good manner. But in an important case, good points can be repeated, which I would like to contribute. As I said, this has been a long-standing issue on the international agenda, despite extensive evidence of the humanitarian adverse effects of this type of weapon – suffering that has greatly affected the civilian population during and after wars and conflicts. Fortunately, progress towards today's Convention proposals has been rapid in recent years. I'm proud of this case, which goes beyond party politics. I am proud that Norway has had a leading role in the process of banning classammunition, which shows that small countries like ours – but I will also mention the core group of states that were driving the process – can make a significant difference in tasks of large dimensions that may seem insurmountable. This is a long line from the time Norway, together with some other countries, proposed a similar ban in 1976. Of course, I would like to credit our government for the rapid initiative for new negotiations after there was no agreement on further progress in connection with the audit conference of the Convention on Special Inhuman Weapons as late as the autumn of 2006. Work is a good example of the Government’s emphasis on the UN and international legal order. I also want to underline the importance of cooperation between authorities and civil society, represented by humanitarian and non-governmental organisations. With the introduction of the block-ammunition ban will prevent major human suffering, which will greatly affect poor, women and children during and not to a lesser extent after war and conflicts. This is the essence of this matter. Let me also draw up two other key elements of the draft Convention: the commitment to assist victims of class ammunition and international cooperation in the clearing of affected areas. Norway has already contributed significantly over the last ten years. It must be possible to increase international commitment and efforts for this work. Class ammunition represents a serious humanitarian problem of large dimensions. As an example, I have captured figures from Norwegian People's Aid, which estimates that there are at least 9 million unexploded small bombs left in Laos from the past, and that over 10,000 people have been killed. The ban on class ammunition sets new international standards in humanitarian law. Not all countries will become parties to the Convention in the immediate time horizon, nor will all our allies in NATO. The proposal clarifies that the Convention facilitates continued close cooperation and that Norway may pursue a policy of participation in international operations involving both parties and non-parties. At the same time, provisions of the Convention require States Parties to do their best to prevent non-Conventional States from using class weapons. I could imagine that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made some reflections on what initiatives could be possible and relevant here, and where we should have a special commitment in view of Norway's role in the history of the Convention proposal. The government assumes in the proposition that this issue will be of a temporary nature. What are the expectations of the Foreign Minister for the development of the block-ammunition ban as a universal standard with a global reach, with the phasing out of prohibited class ammunition in existing defence concepts and military inventories? The prohibition of class weapons represents humanitarian objectives that are in line with Norway’s foreign policy traditions across party borders. Today’s consent allows for prompt signature and ratification by the Norwegian side, and will provide the basis for necessary and, hopefully, rapid international accession.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e792	I'm not going to repeat all the great things the two previous speakers have said. First of all, I would like to join in the congratulations to the Government for a good piece of craft in a demanding matter. We are very pleased to have solved many of the challenges that were underway; not to solve all the challenges and get all the countries with them – and that was probably also an insurmountable obstacle in this context – but, like the Government, we believe that the foundations that are now laid, and the countries that are now behind, have created a considerable pressure on those states that have not yet joined. The representative, Bjørnstad, took up the fact that we have created a room for continued practical military cooperation within the NATO Alliance, which for us was absolutely crucial, and we are of course satisfied that solutions have been found here. It was disappointing that in August, in the context of the conflict between Russia and Georgia, reports of the most likely use of class weapons were reported, probably by both parties. It says something about the challenge. It's bad enough that countries don't sign such an agreement, but it's perhaps even worse that you actually use the weapons. There is a considerable responsibility on everyone to address this where it is natural, and to make it difficult to use these weapons without encountering an international pressure in different forums. Some countries may be more immune to pressure than others, but in any case, I believe that those states that, after this agreement is now in place, still actively choose to use class weapons in a way that affects the civilian population inhumanely, with great suffering as a result, will meet our pressure collectively and strongly and feel that they are in a pattern of operations that will no longer be acceptable, within a very short time. Let's hope we can get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e803	It's like there's a unanimous committee behind this. We all agree, and then there might be less debate in this Chamber than the importance of the matter should be. I don't have much to add to what Mr. Åslaug Haga said, but I want to stress that one of the main reasons why it has been important to stop the use of both mines and class ammo in war is that they have such incredible consequences even after the war is over. This is not just ammunition and weapons for use in a war situation, but they cause great civil damage due to unexploded unexploded unexploded, unexploded mines that hit civilian years out and years after they've been used. It makes the civil side of this type of ammunition and munitions of war stand in a special position compared to much of the other used. I think we have all been affected by pictures and experiences of children who have been maimed by playing with plastic things that they thought were toys, but who have been class bombs that have been laid out and that have not burst at the moment they have taken the reason. We know that there is an incredible amount of such material in all areas that have had war over the last 20 to 25 years. That's why this is an important day. But the most important thing is that there will be enough countries to sign the Convention against the use of mines. There are many of us, even if you have some problems with surgery patterns – what has happened before, if we can manage completely without, and what should be within the category – who will still have a simple implementation of this. There will be many countries where this will be a longer and heavier way to go than it will be in Norway. However, it is incredibly important that more countries participate. Actually, we should get so far that the production of class bombs eventually ends up completely, so that we get rid of the kind of long-acting defense equipment that class bombs and mines are. That's why this is a good day. That's why this is an important step. I have congratulated the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the implementation of this earlier. I'd like to repeat it from the pulpit as well. I don't think there's any reason to hide that we think the government in this area has got something good and has done a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e816	There was once a four-year-old in Grozny province south of Kabul playing around the houses. She saw something similar to a toy, a container of bright yellow colors. She took it up, and it exploded in her hands. It was an unplayed Soviet class bomb she had found, and she was ruined for life. That's what this is all about. There are examples of this that have led many organisations to engage in the ban on class weapons. Thanks to the fact that civil organisations have worked successfully, thanks to the fact that this has been captured by politicians, thanks to the fact that a government has brought this up internationally, it is allowed to hope that four-year-olds in Afghanistan and civilians in other conflict areas will not be destroyed by the class weapons. At least we can hope for that. That is why I would like to pay great tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the job that has been done. Cluster weapons are a relatively new weapon technology, which was widely used in Southeast Asia, among others. in Laos and Vietnam. The use has spread since then. Today, 23 countries are expected to suffer greatly from the use of class weapons. There are different types, but they have something in common: they have a container that contains small bombs fired off. As others have described, from a humanitarian point of view, there are two major problems in the use of class weapons. Firstly, weapons are so imprecise that civilians are often hit when weapons spread across a large area, as is the case with class weapons. Secondly, the bombs may not explode when they hit the ground. Then they lie down as blind-goers, and, as the representative Erna Solberg said, have the effects even after the war is over. NATO's class bombing of Serbia caused Red Cross and Norwegian People's Aid to engage with Norwegian politicians. That involvement took SV up and developed a proposal in close contact with these organisations. In June 2001, the then representative, Lisbet Rugtvedt, promoted a proposal including: that the Government had to go in for international work that could lead to a ban on class weapons similar to anti-personnel mines. This was adopted against the votes of the Progress Party. That is why it is even more gratifying that the Progress Party too clearly ends up with the proposal that is being unanimously adopted today. The exposure of the organisations has led to a win. It shows, among other things, as the representative Åslaug Haga has said several times, how incredibly important it is that we have a challenging civil society that doesn't turn out, that there are some countries that take the initiative, seas of countries that the United States opposes. Let's hope they come after. There are several who have expressed the importance of continuing to press for the fact that even those countries that are not on the ban now, who do not want to sign now, see that it is unacceptable to use this type of weapon. This is a day of joy, as many have said. There's also reason to be very happy about the day it's signed here, December 3rd and December 4th in Oslo. And as the representative Haga said, it's incredibly important to follow up on this further in all organizations where it's possible to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e833	It is with pleasure that I replace the unreserved recognition and praise to our foreign minister when we can today mark a milestone and a breakthrough in the work against the class weapons. The work done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government deserves all possible recognition. It's a little bit further in the right direction, but it also has to be understood in the context of a long ethical tradition. In Christian-ethical thinking, for hundreds of years, ethical principles have been developed that lay down the conditions under which military use is acceptable. It has also been tried to set rules for what kind of warfare could then be acceptable if war unfortunately broke out, i.e. rules in warfare. A major concern has been to reduce the impact of the war on the civilian population. It's in this perspective that you can also see the convention against class weapons. It's a little bit further, just as the ban on anti-personnel mines was a few years ago. In a day like this, there may be reason to throw a glance back at the work that is behind the ban on the class weapons that are now coming. Some of us remember the riot when it was a media announcement that Norwegian and allied fighter pilots were training with class weapons. Prime Minister Bondevik gave a clear signal of a new direction in this work when he concluded that it would have to be an objective to ban class weapons and that, as a first step, priority had to be given to work on regulations and bans which at least removed class weapons with unacceptable human consequences. Not least in many developing countries that had been through war situations, there was a major humanitarian problem that there were again many unexploded small bombs on the ground. For a long time they would pose a danger to humans and animals because they could be triggered by the slightest touch. The work to remove them and clear the areas was both time-consuming, dangerous and costly. It was a part that criticized Bondevik for this strategic thinking. Someone thought that you shouldn't do something that weakened your own defense. Others thought that only a total ban was acceptable, because self-destruction mechanisms would also have a certain percentage of errors. When we see the convention that is now being negotiated, we see that it has just reached the first step Bondevik pointed to. We have not received a total ban, but a ban on class weapons with unacceptable human consequences. The Convention lists a number of class weapons which are not defined as class weapons in the sense of the Convention by the word. They are not whether they have fewer than 10 sub-controversies, whether the sub-controversies weigh more than 4 kg, whether the sub-controversies of the class weapons have self-destructive mechanisms or whether they have self-deactivation mechanisms, etc. It is important that we do not underestimate that reality, even if we value the Convention very highly. We also need to be realistic enough to recognise that class weapons are strictly not prohibited and that, in the eight years leading to the entry into force of the Convention, significant investments will probably be made in new and more modern class weapons which are not affected by the provisions of the Convention. The Odel Sting shall today consider the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the law implementing the Classammunition Convention. The key point is that Norway is legislating the ban on class ammunition with unacceptable humanitarian consequences and provides concrete rules on punishment for those who violate the Convention. It is also worth noting that a consequence of the convention is that Norway has to destroy the class weapons that our own defenses have in stock. There are many countries that want to sign the Convention, but it is far from everyone. Therefore, there will still be a need for sustained efforts to make the Convention binding on all. So we are not in the target, but it is a great pleasure to note that in this Chamber we agree on the direction for further work on disarmament and arms control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e848	I would also like to take the opportunity to express my delight in the fact that Norway can sign and ratify the Convention on an International Prohibition of Class Ammunition and on the active role of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government. The Convention prohibits the use, development, manufacture, acquisition, storage, transfer and storage of class ammunition. The left hopes that many countries will follow Norway’s example. Furthermore, I hope that the Convention can be a guide for those who are not behind it. They may feel a burden by using a weapon that a majority of the world's country has stamped as morally and humanitarianly unacceptable. The 1997 Ottawa Treaty, which prohibits the use of landmines, has had such an effect. The United States has refused to sign this treaty but has not used landmines since the Treaty entered into force. The problem with class ammunition is that it spreads scary and severe suffering long after it has been used. Class bombs were used, as several have mentioned before me, during the wars in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam and still kill many civilians – yes, very many children. NATO also spread large numbers of cluster bombs in Serbia and Kosovo during the 1999 bombing war. They continue to kill civilians and constitute a significant obstacle to the reconstruction of countries. In 2006, Israel mined large parts of southern Lebanon, when more than 1 million cluster bombs were scattered more or less arbitrarily. The United States, Russia, China, Israel, India, Pakistan and Brazil have stayed away from the Class Ammunition Convention. Unfortunately, these are the countries that have used most of these weapons, and which probably have the lowest threshold for using them. According to The New York Times, the United States, Russia and China together have more than one billion small bursts in their arsenals. There is now reason to hope for a new course from the United States. When the Senate voted on a resolution on the class weapons in 2006, Barack Obama was one of four senators who supported a ban. I hope he will follow up this as President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e869	It is of this job's great moment to be able to receive these nice greetings from the whole Stortinget. I accept it, and you need to know that I value it. But I also want to say that there is something I share with a lot of people. There have been big business representatives here who have been telling us about their commitment for many years. It's well-known. Norway has focused on close contact and dissemination of work on this Convention in many countries. There's a method in the work on this. Many people today feel the ownership of what is going to happen in Oslo early in December. Civil society has played the crucial role it has both as a driver and – quite uniquely – as a provider of knowledge and technical insight into how best to do this. I would also like to congratulate Mr. Steffen Kongstad, Mr. Anette Abelsen and others, who have managed the work between departments and have done some conventional work, but also very much new work that I think Norway can be proud of, and which we can build on in the future. I don't want to repeat all the good assessments that have been made, but I can join everything. I'll give a special honor to the Defense. This has not been a simple matter for them — a large part of Norway’s existing artillery ammunition is in the category of classammunition. The convention gives us eight years of phase-out. The Minister of Defence has decided that it should start immediately to set an example. But there has been a need to adapt defence concepts, and this also led to our delegation in Dublin having a powerful delegation that could assist other countries. I shall not mention them by name, but it was a country that we normally believe is far more powerful than we are on the defence side, with large defence industries and large defence systems. They came to Norway to assess how to adapt to the agreement. We made an agreement we can also live with our NATO allies. Many of the allies are in. Of course, the British threw themselves into the Convention's side a few days before this was concluded was of great importance. Then they asked, "What does it mean that countries have not signed?" How can this become a norm, and how can we contribute to it? I believe, as I said in an earlier debate here today, that this is already the norm. After Dublin, class weapons users have broken an international norm. Both Georgia and Russia, as the Human Rights Watch has stressed, have used class weapons during the Georgia conflict. It says in my opinion in a different category than before Dublin. So we still need civil society in those countries that have signed up, but also in those countries that have not signed up. I would also like to commend the Members of this House who have addressed this in numerous parliamentary assemblies where Norway has access, and who have been involved in spreading the matter to other countries. Now, a couple of weeks before the Oslo meeting, we're working on getting as many people to come. We know that for some countries this is a very demanding matter, where the debates we have been through are still going on. Last week I had the joy of being in Riga, in Latvia, where my background notes said that the Latvians were probably not going to sign. We now received a message that the Latvian Minister for Foreign Affairs is coming, and that he will sign. They're happy stories, because it shows that it's possible to continue working. Finally, I would like to express one concern. Further work in this industry is important for the defence industry in Norway; it is an important technology driver, with a high degree of creativity – it was pointed out in a previous debate – and technological things can also be invented that can benefit civil purposes. But there is reason to fear that technological innovation, non-agreement legal hot spots, can come up with new weapon types that are not necessarily covered by the Convention text, although they were made very ambitious and we were able to maintain the level of ambition. I think we're going to be happy for this day, for the two meetings we're going to have in this house today, which makes this Norwegian law, but at the same time take it as a very clear marshy earth, so that we have to continue working on opinion and developing humanitarian law further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e890	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e906	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e915	Today, the Storting is considering a proposal for a representative that the Government should take full responsibility for securing and removing the radioactive slags at the Sovele mines in the Nome municipality of Telemark. The proposers ask the Government to start this work as soon as possible. Sleep mines were run by the state company A/S Norsk Bergverk from 1951 to 1965. Telemark County bought the mine yard in 1970, five years after the closure. The State Institute for Radiation Hygiene ordered the former owner to cover the slag with lime sludge, which was done. Today, it may seem quite incredible that the purchaser was interested in such a transfer, but at the time of the transfer, there was probably no one who predicted or understood that this would be a future source of pollution. It has been demonstrated in recent years that radioactive waste remains after operation and the State radiation protection system has assessed the conditions and considered that more permanent protection is needed. The radioactive masses represent increased radiation load on the population in the area and also represent in the long term a threat to Norsjö as a source of drinking water. There is no disagreement that it should be cleaned up in the waste heaps after Sleep mines. The disagreement is the public body which is to assume this responsibility. The proposers believe that the State, as former owner of A/S Norsk Bergverk, should do so. The State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade believes that this is not a matter for the State, but that the obligations were assumed by the county when the purchased property at the mine. It is obvious that the Telemark County Municipality and the Ministry are completely different from what is covered by the transfer itself, and what are the consequences of the agreement concluded following an inspection in June 2005. The discussion concerns, among other things: whether Bergvesenet then assumed responsibility for the clearance after the mine, or whether it was the necessary on-site investigations to be paid. There's the thing. In order to seek an agreed solution in the matter, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, on behalf of the Government at the beginning of October of this year, has made an offer to the county council of up to 50 p.m. State financial support, provided that the county assumes the formal and practical responsibility for the clean-up, and subject to the consent of the county council. This has not been formally endorsed by the Telemark County Municipality to the Department. And since this proposal for a representative was before the committee, demanding that the state take full responsibility, it may not be strange. In a letter dated 14 November to the nutrition committee, the county council says that they do not regard the ministry's proposal for a solution as an offer, but that the department here departs from an agreement it has agreed on. They also feel that they are not in dialogue with the state. It is very regrettable that the parties should have such a different view of the facts in such an important matter. However, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the SV, the Centre Party, the Right and the Left, believe that Telemark County Municipality should bear part of the costs of cleaning up. Another majority, consisting of the red-green parties, have also noticed that Bergvesenet will assist the county with surveys and professional assessments, which we believe will be important in order to develop further plans for the remediation of radioactive waste after mining. It is now important that the dialogue between the county and the state be resumed so that a mutually agreed solution can be found in the case. Considering that it is a prerequisite for the Storting to agree on any state financial support for the cleaning-up costs, the majority asks for the matter to be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e941	The matter of Sove mines is mainly about who should be responsible for cleaning up contaminated masses. This should have been an unnecessary debate, as I thought there was a complete consensus on the Stortinget to continue the polluter-pays principle. But this government never ceases to surprise. Although all parties agree that the radioactive pits at Soviet mines are the result of state mining in the 1950s and 1960s, and all parties are in favour of the principle that the polluter should clean up afterwards, the majority of government parties want to waive responsibility for cleaning up. State offer to cover 50 pst. the costs now 43 years after the closure of the mining activity, Telemark County is regarded as a clear breach of agreements already concluded. Telemark County was in good faith when it assumed that the liability in this case was resolved in 2005. First, the Minister of Health and Care Ansgar Gabrielsen was out in the local canal on 27 April 2005 and confirmed that he believed that it should be the public, and then the State, which should take the costs of securing residents from a radiation hazard that might be present at Sleep mines. Then, after inspection and on-the-spot meeting on 16 June 2005, the minutes included the participation of the State Radiation Protection Agency, the Telemark County Municipality, the Nome Municipality and the Bergvesenet: Bergvesenet undertakes to finance and implement the measures agreed between the parties in the context of dietary benefit. This is later referred to in the Bergvesen Annual Report 2005. There was nothing to suggest that the county council was faced with an uncertain financial responsibility in this case, when in 2006 field tests and sampling were carried out in the area of Sove mines. It was not until you got a new red-green government that you got a total discharge of responsibility from the state. It came in 2007, from the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Dag Terje Andersen. The county council reacted resolutely and sent a letter to the department clarifying some of the issues and asking some questions. This letter had still not received an answer to the county council in the summer of 2008, i.e. one year after. It was not until after the Progress Party made a proposal on the matter that an offer from the Government appeared to cover half of the costs of cleaning up at Sleep mines. I know that things can take time in public, but we're not talking about any kind of pollution in this case. The radioactive waste which has been almost unprotected by Soviet mines for 43 years should be disposed of. Although it should not represent an immediate danger to the inhabitants of the area, it is there as a skeleton of Norwegian state mining. Dumping waste, in particular radioactive waste, by Norwegian nature should not and should not occur. When this happens, it must be removed as soon as possible. When public authorities are responsible for the waste, there is little doubt that it will give an unfortunate signal effect to business and private individuals if public authorities do not clean up their own environmental sins. I also record that the municipality of Telemark indicates that the mines, with slags, fell back to the state after the mining was shut down. It may be here that the legal battle will stand, as I see the Telemark County Municipality warning that it will go to trial against the state if it is required to bear a financial responsibility to clean up the state mining business. The party of progress does not wish to raise a legal case concerning the areas of Soviet mines. We refer to the polluter-pays principle and therefore believe that it is not much required when we propose that this should be a state responsibility. The state has the competence, the state has the economy to bring this matter to a proper conclusion, so that we can secure the 2,000 m3 with radioactive waste at Sleep mines in a proper way. Sending the bill for this to a poor county municipality that already has to give priority between school and transport is not right in this case. Here is the state that has made money on mining, it is the state that has earned money on sale, and then it should be the state that takes the bill to clean up. In this context, we promote the minority's proposal in the vote, that the Stortinget ask the Government to take a state responsibility for removing and depositing the radioactive material from the areas of Sleep mines in Nome Municipality. Politics is about wanting. The Progress Party will in this matter. I had hoped that the government parties would have wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e973	The representative Kåre Fostervold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e976	Right placed in government when NRK Focused through a document put national searchlight on the matter of Sleep mines. The focus was well assisted by Heidi Sørensen from SV, who also raised the matter in the Questionnaire. Sørensen, now Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Environment, then sent out a press release and demanded that the state pay for cleaning up where the state owns the facilities. The co-operation administration acted quickly. An inspection was carried out in June 2005 at Ulefoss between the municipality, the county municipality and several state agencies. At the meeting, it was agreed that Bergvesenet undertook, on behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, to finance and implement the measures agreed upon by the parties in the context of a cost-benefit analysis. In retrospect, the County and State disagree as to whether Bergvesenet incurred any cost of the entire cleaning process or only the costs of carrying out and costing the necessary on-site investigations. I don't want to spend time here discussing what Bergvesenet put in this in 2005. I do not think that is necessary for the result. The crucial thing is that the Co-operation Administration addressed the case in 2005, started investigations and had all intentions for a rapid clean-up. The fact that the matter in practice stopped when we had to go off is very sad. As I said, there is a legal disagreement between the State and the county council on who is obliged to clean up. In the case of liability, the State emphasises its view in a letter dated 23 October 2008, where it is claimed that the clearance is a commitment of the county council when the property purchased at Sovele mines from A/S Norsk Bergverk in 1970. However, without prejudice to the consent of the Storting, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has offered Telemark County Municipality State financial support of up to 50 pst. of the cleaning costs. The County Council, on its side, claims that the responsibility lies with the State at Bergvesenet. In this context, they refer to the agreement on the inspection in June 2005, to the polluter-pays principle, to the fall-back slaughter, and to the established practice of mining law. The right-hand party believes that the state needs to cut through and take responsibility. It is unsustainable that the matter remains unresolved because of a legal disagreement. Until that's the cleanup too important. Therefore, the Right today, along with the rest of the opposition, promotes proposals that the Government should take a state responsibility for removing and depositing the radioactive material from the areas of Sleep mines in Nome Municipality. The right will strongly stress that the State must assume its primary responsibility here and that it is in line with the position taken by the State when the Right is in government. At the same time, Telemark County Council must provide good and constructive solutions and arrangements to cut through the Georgian knot in this matter. Good dialogue and good cooperation between Telemark County and the State will be the fastest and best way to clean up this radioactive waste that has spread concern among the population over decades. This is a case that has been going on for three years since the 2005 elections. It is now high time that the current government dealt with the matter with the same will and ability to act and achieve results as the Co-operation Government did. The right will once again stress that the main responsibility for cleaning up should rest with the State and that in this case there should not be a large cost to the county that would go beyond the tasks that the county must perform in relation to its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1004	It was A/S Norsk Bergverk that owned Sleep mines in Telemark. Among the metals that were extracted there was the most important nitrous oxide. Some of the rock species in the area contained high concentrations of the radioactive substances thorium and uranium. The extraction of niobium produced the slag in the area around the mine. Such concentration of slags and masses from production has produced an unusually high concentration of radioactive material. This waste has doctors since mining was shut down, and it is, as has already been said several times, just at the important drinking water source Norsjø. It is therefore necessary to clean it up and ensure the long-term storage of the problem waste. Fortunately, this is the whole deal. The facilities and property at Soeve mines were sold to Telemark County in 1970. Telemark County believes that they have been promised that the state will take responsibility for cleaning up the pollution. This page has nothing to do with it. Against this background, it is Telemark County now has notice that they are considering actions against the State. The Christian People's Party believes that the principle of foruriens paying means that the state has to take responsibility for cleaning up. This principle may not apply only to private companies. It was bad in the whole state that was the owner when the pollution happened. In addition, questions can be asked by the owner. Is it the county council, or is it the state? Has homefall caused the state to own its own property? I would like the Council of State to clarify this and to respond to the principle that there are foreurs to pay, and also to the state, and if she thinks she owns the property of Sleep mines. The Christian People's Party endorses the suggestion that the Government now has to take a state responsibility to secure and remove the radioactive pits at Sleep mines in Nome Municipality. This work must start as soon as possible. It is simply about protecting all those in Nome Municipality and in Telemark who depend on Norsjö as a drinking water source, from dangerous pollution. We know the problem is there. The Christian People's Party is quite clear that people in Telemark have a claim that the Government is now acting immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1015	Let me begin by stressing that it is important that a take on serious situations where one does not know the impact of stored material on humans. This applies both in the short and long term. It is unpleasant and disturbing to have a warehouse with a high concentration of radioactive material in the vicinity and in addition, as in this case, near a drinking water source. Therefore, the left agrees that an investigation must be carried out into how clean-up is to be carried out. And then, the cleanup has to be done. In the view of the Left, it is a fundamental principle that the polluter should also clean up. This is where the state has a responsibility. This responsibility must be assumed by the state. When it is the county that currently owns the land and the area, the county must also be involved in the processes that are taking place. This is a matter that is also of fundamental importance. The question is who will clean up past ‘sin’ through history. The company that was responsible for the operation is often closed and has no counterparty. Nevertheless, it is not unnatural that where the State has been the sole owner of a company, and even if the company is closed, the State has a responsibility in addition to what is reasonable to expect if it had been a private owner. The State shall act professionally, but also has overall social responsibility in such cases. I do not think the law and the legal system should be the problem solvers in this matter. I don't think anyone deserves that. The left considers that in the light of the unclear responsibilities between the State and Telemark County Municipality, the State must assume a primary responsibility to investigate the removal, removal and deposit of radioactive material from Sleep mines. This is a matter that does not find its solution in Stortinget at this time, but the government must take the main responsibility, be the authority of the practitioners and possibly come back to Stortinget once the matter has been resolved, so that the Storting has a broader basis for making the decision. Otherwise, I refer to the minority proposal, where the Left is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1030	This is a case that has a long history, and I think many in retrospect could have wished that there had been clarifications earlier. I also believe that some things could have been done differently, so that we could now avoid being in a situation where the state and county council disagree on responsibilities. I also understand that this is a matter that creates commitment. We all agree that the waste has to be handled in a proper manner. These are wastes which, according to the State radiation protection system, may present a radioactive radiation hazard and which should be permanently investigated and secured. However, the matter is not so simple. I am aware that Telemark is a municipality in connection with the work of the Business Committee on Document No. The 8th proposal sent a letter to the Committee. I record that there is a clear disagreement between the county and the department in this matter. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade must state that legal assessments we have made – as is quite common in this type of case – clearly state that this clearing is not a state responsibility, but a responsibility that is incumbent on the landowner, that is, Telemark County. The Ministry wrote to the county authorities in 1989, 20 years ago, that it considered that the matter was not the responsibility of the state. The same was notified in a letter last year to the State Radiation Protection Agency and County Council, and in a letter dated 23 October to the Trade Committee attached to the position. As we have been informed, the operation at Sove mines was closed in 1965. In 1970, the properties were transferred to Telemark County and Nome Municipality in the state in which they were located, with rights and obligations. The slaughter was then, as has been said, covered with lime sludge, as instructed by the environmental authorities at that time. A/S Norsk Bergverk was subsequently terminated. State radiation protection has long had the Fens field during observation, and has also seen the site where waste is stored after Sleep mines. The straw supplier considers that there should be a new and more permanent fuse. What this will cost is still uncertain, depending on whether you can pay attention to a new cover, or whether you have to take up and move the waste and place it in a new site. Following a request from the State Radiation Protection Agency back in 2005, the Ministry pointed out in a preliminary reply to the Straw livery, with copies to the County Council, that the liability required an investigation. At the same time, the Ministry asked its specialist at Bergvesenet to carry out investigations in the area. The Ministry also opened up the possibility of granting grants for the study and cleaning-up of Søve mines, and that is what the Ministry did in its support offer – subject to the approval of Stortingen – of 16 October this year to Telemark County. I understand that the County Council believes that at a meeting in 2005, Bergvesenet has assumed full responsibility for the cleaning up of Sleep. In the view of the Ministry, Bergvesenet has not taken on such total responsibility, nor have they been able to do so. However, as we see it, we have made it clear that Bergvesenet would like to be able to help with, for example: to continue the testing of the periphery. Later meetings in the case concerned investigation programmes. In view of the fact that the Government has now discussed the matter, and subject to the consent of Stortingen, I made an offer in a letter dated 6 October 2008 to Telemark County Municipality that the State could be willing to cover up to 50 pst. of the cleaning-up costs, in return for the acceptance by the county council of its responsibility for cleaning-up. We also said that Bergvesenet, as mentioned above, will still be able to assist professionally in identifying the extent of the pollution and in assessing the remedial measures in question. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is now awaiting answers from the municipality of Telemark County on this letter. When we receive that answer, we'll probably go through it thoroughly. We would also like to have dialogue with the Telemark County Municipality about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1054	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1058	It may immediately appear to be a shy offer when the state offers to cover 50 pst. of the costs. But, as the council is certainly familiar with, with today's municipal economy, it is impossible for a county municipality that has very important tasks for its inhabitants. So the state council said in its statement that the matter should have been resolved at an earlier time, and that it could have been dealt with in another way. I hope that the Council of State can take self-criticism in view of how the State has also acted on this matter. We also see that the majority in the vote – the government parties – claim that there is still a dialogue between the state and Telemark County Municipality in this case. In a letter to the nutrition committee, Telemark County decided that such dialogue does not exist. Then is my question to the Council of State: How does the Council of State communicate such a message when it is not perceived by the recipient?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1069	I insist that this is a matter that has an unimaginable long history. I believe many should share the responsibility that it has not been cleaned up in the past. The matter has been going on for over 20 years. I am taking my share of responsibility for the time I have been responsible for it and our government has been responsible for it. Now I am most concerned about resolving the matter. I feel that Storting's commitment also indicates that we should. In view of the fact that this matter has been going on for a long time, and that there have been thorough investigations, it was that, subject to the consent of Stortingen, we offered the county council an offer to cover 50 p.m., as I have explained. We await answers to that letter. I hope we get it soon. And we're set to talk to the county council with the aim of resolving that case, getting cleaned up in this, making it safer for anyone who's worried about the situation at Sleep now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1076	It's a little sad that what we're all basically a few about, that it has to be cleaned up in this problem area, has a strand of legal inconsistency. I don't know how to actually characterize it, but the parties can't agree that it has to be cleaned up here. There we have tried to cut through in the opposition to get an end to this and get a clean-up here, so this is not just a rhetorical debate. One of the unclear questions is: Who is it that owns Sleep now? It's true that the county council took over this, but then it's claimed that due to a relapse, it's actually the state that's now in possession of the property. There's a not entirely insignificant question in this context, so it might be interesting to get the Council of State's assessment of who it really thinks is the real owner. Does she insist that there is still the county council, or has something happened to the homefall, so that really it is the state that owns it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1083	As you know, A/S Norsk Bergverk was laid down and taken over by Telemark County. It's not something I've come up with, but after many thorough legal assessments, such as... have been in operation for the period 2005 to 2007 and until where we are now, it is clear that this is the responsibility of the county municipality. It was also made clear 20 years ago. So this case has been going on and on. The state is not responsible. But because it's such a special case, because we're talking about the waste we're talking about, the state has nevertheless said, despite the fact that it's not legally responsible, that it would like to contribute up to 50 pst. of the cleaning costs. So I just want to appeal to Telemark County Council and encourage them to reply to the letter we sent. We have to get into dialogue, sit around a table. The state wants to contribute, sail if we really don't have any responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1090	Norwegian state mining has caused serious pollution and radiation hazards in the Nome municipality of Telemark. Does the Council of State really believe that it is right that the State that pollutes, runs from its responsibility and leaves to the county council to pay for cleaning up the old sins of the state, that a county council that is struggling with the economy associated with the school and other important tasks it is to defend must take such heavy lifting? I think it is quite difficult to make such demands, and I hope the Council of State sees that this is a state responsibility, and cuts through.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1095	The fact is that it was cleaned up in due course after the operation at Sleep by covering the waste masses with lime sludge, as required by the date. So to that run from responsibility. I think it is quite free from a representative from the Right, who has also been responsible to the government for several years, and who has been responsible to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for a few years, to say so. But I am otherwise not concerned about looking at what has happened, I am concerned about resolving the matter. In fact, this government has offered Telemark County Municipality an offer to contribute, despite the fact that all the legal expertise that we rely on says that we do not have that responsibility. So I hope that also the Right believes that the most important thing now is to get a solution in the matter. I hope that the Telemark County Council will respond to the enquiry we have made, that we will have a dialogue, and that we can get cleaned up, because I think that's the most important thing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1104	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1109	This case is a special and difficult case – not least in relation to the legal issues, but also because one has understood that there are real negotiations between the State and Telemark County Municipality. Saga has a long history, as many have been in the past. The telemark county council certainly believes that the state in the mining uprisings in 1965 declared a relapse to Sovie mines. Not least on this background, Telemark County believes that the state has a responsibility to clean up and secure the problem waste after mining at Sleep in Nome Municipality. The Ministry has carefully assessed the legal aspects and concluded that this is not a responsibility of the State. The Ministry clearly believes that cleaning up was part of the obligations assumed by the county when they bought the property in 1970. I take note of that. Now it is the case that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has provided the county council with State financial support of up to 50 pst. by the cleaning-up costs, under the authority of the Municipality of Telemark accepting its responsibility for the cleaning-up. This offer has not been responded to by Telemark County Council, as they consider matters that ended through what they think was a achieved unity in 2005. It's too slow. Everyone thinks that it should be cleaned up well in the waste heaps after Sleep mines. Slaughterhouses with radioactive waste are close to drinking water source Norsjø, but experts claim that the slag and radioactive waste do not pose a direct health risk to the population. However, I and others with me believe that there must be a rapid cleaning and a permanent securing of the material. It is my hope that Telemark County Councils will see the Ministry's initiative as an offer and that through further discussions the parties will arrive at a solution they can find out about. That is why we have chosen to go in so that the matter is included in the Minutes rather than reject the proposal. It is totally unsustainable that Telemark County and the State have a different view of the legal responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1124	This is an environmental issue, and this is also a matter of principle. It deals with who has to pay for old environmental sins. It should have been a simple matter on the basis of the principle that the Storting has established once and for all, namely that the polluter should pay. At the time of the pollution, the state was the sole owner of the company. It is therefore the Council of State that unnecessarily complicates this matter. I was going to spend half a minute referring to a little bit of the magnitude. The slag mound has a very large volume. It is unprotected from Norwegian nature. The radioactivity is due to high levels of uranium and thorium, and the mound also contains some heavy metals. The mound emits high gamma radiation, radon gas, uranium and thorium. So far, the slaughter has gone into little disintegration, but there is no assurance that it will be the case in the future. Heidi Sørensen, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment, was exemplaryly ready when she sat on the Stortinget. Then she decided that the polluter pays principle should be firm, and I fully agree with that. It is a merciless principle for private people, and that principle should be equally unappreciative to the public. Of course, the right-hand side supports that as the guiding principle for anyone who pollutes, that you do that, and you have to clean it up. Finally, let me ask a direct question to the Council of State: Does the state now intend to derogate from the polluter-pays principle through this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1137	It is almost touching to hear how much agreement there is that we need to clean up the matter. Everyone, including those representing the government parties, has been up and said that this is important to tackle, we need to find a solution. The council says she's busy finding a solution. The solution here is that this big thing says that we want to clean up this case. We want to remove 4.3 tons of uranium, and we want to remove 9.7 tons of thorium in the slag mound at Sleep mines in Nome Municipality of Telemark County. I had hoped that we could find a solution instead of having a defensive attitude and a government council saying that it is no longer that the polluter should pay. Because that is the principle that is now waived – that it should actually be the polluter who has to pay. Now it turns out that there is also a discussion about who owns and is responsible for the mines. I hear someone believe that the miner has said that under the right of return it is not the State that has this responsibility, while others believe that it is perhaps the State that has a greater responsibility here. In the discussion that the county municipality bought this area in 1970, I think it is a little important to have in mind how the county municipality was organized in 1970, in relation to how the county municipality is now organized. At the time, the state was quite active in terms of how the states were run, in relation to the role that the state has today – as its extended arm in a county municipality with political leadership and political organisation. In addition, we know that when Sleep mines were purchased by the County Council, there were serious questions about the challenges there. These are not least the challenges we now see: Uranium and thorium are in the pits. It is known that documents are not public. It may be that these were not known at the time the county purchased the area. There are several people who have been involved in Heidi Sørensen's statements on this problem. I fully agree: She said very clearly that it is the polluter who is going to pay, and that now you have to make sure to clean up. The same Heidi Sørensen is now State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and part of the Government. I hope that the Government will now also say that it will ensure that it cleans up. It can do that today – if it wants to. But it is perhaps more important to be abroad and tell us how good you are – to spend SEK 1.4 billion in Russia to help clean up the problem of radioactive waste – than to clean up a place in your own country, in Norway, in a municipality and in a county municipality that can't afford to clean it up. The state should take care to clean up, which is also the one who made sure that this radioactive waste was placed in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1148	As many have already discussed in this debate, the Business Committee has received a letter from the Telemark County Municipality which, in my opinion, places this matter and the position of the Committee in a rather strange light. It is primarily because the county council claims that there is no dialogue between the department and the county council on the occasion of the case, and then because the county council claims that it is not really a party to the case, because the mines, including the polluting property, belong to the state. Knowing that a dialogue requires at least two parties, and that we have a form of conversation called parallel monologues, which are quite well developed in Norwegian public opinion, we simply cannot live with the fact that there are such differences. I assume that the municipality, county council and state are able to talk to each other in the course of the conversation. Although there is no immediate risk of extensive radioactive contamination in the Nome municipality, the slag deposit at Sleep represents a potential risk of contamination. Should this danger become acute, a dispute between the county and the state over the legal responsibility for the clean-up would have secondary significance. The slag deposit at the mines on Sleep is not the only one that represents a risk of contamination. There are also a lot of other mines that have been closed down. In the absence of a complete overview and in the light of this case, I think it would be wise to give Bergvesene a task to identify the extent of the pollution risk of mining sites that have closed down, clarify liability and cures – and then come back to Stortinget with an overall plan for dealing with these problems. Of course, this does not prevent you from having to deal with the acute problems that may arise along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1158	Let me first praise the Council of State, which has offered state financial support of up to 50 p.m. of the costs. I'm sorry, that's just not enough. Steinar Gullvåg was concerned that there might be more mines you wanted to map, and then come back with an overall plan. I hope that Stortinget has the same attitude to other mines where the state has been operating and polluting. It must be the responsibility of the State to clean up its own mess. To this end, with State responsibility – the representative Hoksrud was involved. We've spent $1.4 billion in Russia to help unload former nuclear submarines. We have replaced strontium batteries on light bulbs in Russia. It is not our state companies that have built or run any of this, but there we have taken a certain responsibility. Another example is the shipwreck «Murmansk», which lies in the archipelago outside Finnmark. There is no clear state responsibility here, but an active role has been played and the wreck has been said to disappear. If you want to, you cut through – you don't use jus in this area. Once upon a time, it is the state that has the money and competence in this case, and it is only the state – as I see it – that can solve this problem. A county council that can't even afford to make sure that kids on the school bus are in car belts can't afford to go in with millions of dollars to clean up at Sleep mines. The alternative in this case if the state does not go in and take full responsibility – which I think they should do – is that the pitfalls at Sleep stay in place and the case is definitely not resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1169	I just thought that I would shortly finally answer, as I got a direct question, about the polluter-pays principle. It's a very good principle. But in this case, which everyone here knows well, A/S Norsk Bergverk is closed down. It was covered according to the requirements of the date, and the land was purchased by Telemark County. Then there have been many processes in that regard. I'm not going to repeat it. What I understand is that the Storting is concerned about, and the government is also concerned about, is finding a solution in this case – get cleaned up and get an end to this dispute that has been going on for very many years. That is why we have taken an initiative and given Telemark County Municipality an offer that the State can take 50 pst. of the costs. As I have said, we are now awaiting feedback from the Telemark County Municipality. When we get it, we're going to have to go through it thoroughly. I hope it's possible to have a dialogue with the county council, and I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1176	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1192	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated to the telecommunications sector should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1201	The aim of the proposal we are now considering is to establish stronger supervision of public acquisitions. Proposals are of the opinion that public procurement rules are too poorly complied with, as is also confirmed in the annual reports of the National Audit Office. That is why, in the opinion of the rapporteur, it is an important matter that we are going to take a decision on today. The latest report of the National Audit Office’s annual audit and audit of the departments for 2007 also shows that there is still a long way to get procurement procedures in place. Acquisition law is important for industry as a supplier to the public sector. It is important that predictability, cleanness and transparency are taken into account in the public sector procurement process. Purchasing legislation shall ensure that public resources are used in the most cost-effective and quality-assured manner possible. Unfortunately, it appears that very many of the breaches of the legislation that exist are not being filed with the KOFA. The reasons for this may be many – that the business community does not see fit to do so, either because they consider the purchase to be completed or because they are concerned about their future interests as a supplier to the public sector. The proposers also refer to the limited role that KOFA can play in the enforcement of the public procurement legislation, as they only deal with breaches of the law complained against by KOFA, and do not take the initiative to identify breaches of the rules. The rapporteur expects the individual parties to make their own comments and suggestions on the matter. The Progress Party supports the proposers in that it is important to put in place a supervisory system that more effectively follows violations of public procurement rules. Public intervention accounts for well over 300 billion dollars a year, and it goes without saying that you can get a lot of unnecessary expenditure if you don't carry out open and predictable tendering for supplies to the public sector. Although we agree with the government parties that there is a need for empowerment, information and guidance to prevent these breaches, it is also important to have a supervision, which may carry out the post-control equivalent to the follow-up given to the departments of the Riksrevision. We are of the opinion that a supervision capable of ensuring the use and enforcement of the law must be put in place to press forward the necessary shipper’s roof that the public sector now needs to take. The work on implementing the legislation and its enforcement is simply too slow. The party concerned also concerns the consequences of raising the national tender threshold from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000. In many municipalities, the public is the second largest customer for many suppliers. It may not be the large purchases made, but there are many smaller customers who can make a total contribution to significant turnover. For many of the small businesses located around this country, it is essential to have access to supplies to the public. It is therefore important to have an opportunity to follow the procurement plans that are available to the public, so that it becomes clear that there are opportunities to make offers. There are signs now that this possibility has been weakened. We therefore propose that the Government carry out an evaluation of the consequences of raising the threshold for public procurement. At the same time, we believe that some of this issue will be resolved if one introduces a simplified contract notice for procurement below the national tender threshold. In this way, it is easy to facilitate the provision of necessary information to business regarding public procurement. What will result from administrative burdens will pay off quickly through increased competition for the tasks. Against this background, I am promoting the proposals on which the Progress Party is voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1222	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1225	The Labour Party agrees that the use of competition can be an important contribution to the effective use of society’s resources. Therefore, it is important that the procurement legislation in the public sector is properly applied and that it is carried out in an efficient, tidy and professional manner. It is worrying when we see that there is a series of violations of the legislation. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government has actually addressed the problem and has done a great deal to strengthen compliance with the Public Procurement Code. It's about competence, information and guidance. All of this is important to ensure that the procurement legislation is properly complied with. The Labour Party is therefore pleased with the Government's efforts to improve its competence and enforcement. Thus created the Government in January the Directorate of Administration and ICT, the DIFI, and a central task there is actual knowledge dissemination and information about public procurement. It is also the case that the new rules that came about the fee for illegal direct purchases have only worked since January 2007, and we need to give them a little more time to evaluate them. We believe that enforcement will be further strengthened when we implement the new enforcement directive, because we have noticed that there should also be a selection to look at enforcement of the legislation. Therefore, we believe that once we have received information about DIFI, when we have received a fee for purchases, when there is to be a selection to look at it, and there is to be a big message about public procurement, I think these are important things. It shows that the Government has an active role in this. Let me also say that we in the Labour Party are pleased that it turns out that the rise in the threshold from NOK 200 000 to NOK 500000, as one did in the autumn of 2005, actually has our socio-economic profitability. For this is the conclusion of Aplan Viak, which, on behalf of the Ministry of Innovation and Administration, was asked to evaluate the consequences of the changes. It turns out that both suppliers and purchasers have saved money on simpler purchasing processes and that the loss of any reduced competition does not exceed this gain. As I said, the government announced in St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, to provide a separate public procurement notice in 2009. There will be a comprehensive review of how the state and local authorities carry out their purchases, with a view to improving public procurement. Therefore, the Labour Party is very much in agreement with the Council of State in what it wrote in the letter, that it is now important that the measures already in place should be given time to take action. Therefore, we do not support a new system of public procurement supervision at this time. I must say that I am a little surprised when the minority in the Committee, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, propose that the Government carry out an evaluation of the competitive consequences of the rise in the national threshold, since the report that came this summer says this, and that is precisely the evaluation that has been made. So here we're not completely in line with the suggestions. But the report shows, as I said before, that both suppliers and purchasers have saved money on simpler purchasing processes, and the report concludes that it is socio-economically appropriate at a level of 500,000 kroner. It's very important that we come with us. The same report also shows that the protocol obligation, as a liability for all purchases over NOK 100000 and introduced at the same time, has had an exacerbating effect on purchasers. Because buyers know that they have to give a thorough written basis for their choices, it stimulates good procurement. The new rules of public law that will make the protocol public after the contract is concluded, I also believe that I will strengthen that contract. The report also showed that. An example of a municipality with approx. 50,000 inhabitants. They had chosen a website, where all purchases over NOK 50 000 were made public. This gave better discipline and thus many possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1246	I would like to start by giving the case rapporteur an honor for the work done on this important matter. The public sector buys in goods and services for more than DKK 250 billion each year, and it is absolutely certain that the way these purchases take place is of great importance to the resource use we have in the public sector, and the well-being we get from these resources that we put in. The way in which purchases are made also has a significant impact on the daily lives of thousands of small and medium-sized – and, to a large extent, enterprises providing goods and services to the public sector. Failure to comply with procurement law will make it more difficult for companies to obtain information on possible assignments and will increase the risk of discrimination. It thus has a clear industrial policy aspect when the Government and the Council of State do not do their job in this area. Nor is Norway as a nation protected from unpleasant issues such as corruption, camaraderie and incalculable public treatment. We have our share in the world of such problems, we as everyone else. Therefore, it is encouraging to record the light-winded way in which the Government deals with procurement policy. In my view, the government is contributing to an increased risk of impoverishment, corruption and camaraderie by not more ensuring compliance with the procurement rules. The challenges of poor compliance with procurement law have been there for a long time. They come from the time before the Government joined. However, history is clear, namely that the Councils of State of the Right and the Bondevik II Government were sharp in the edge in clearing up these problems. On 9 September 2005, the current Minister of Modernisation Morten Meyer of the Right raised the national tender threshold from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000. The change was based on a broad consultation and an assessment of the reasons for reducing administrative costs, fair competition and transparency in the procurement process. At the same time, the introduction of a simplified notice and a protocol obligation for purchases between NOK 100 000 and NOK 500000 was notified from 1 January 2006. Thus, the simplified publication system would apply to purchases below the tendering limit, while the tendering rules would apply to cross-border purchases. The government and the state council of Grande Røys drove this work quite clearly into the ditch by putting a large line over the whole obligation of publication. The Government Parties further torpedoed the views of the entire procurement area by entering in the Government Declaration that the tender threshold should be raised to an EU level of 1,8 million. NOK, to our own level of NOK 500000. When public purchasers received these two signals, I think a lot of people lowered their shoulders and noticed in the margin that this purchase law is not particularly important for this government. Notwithstanding explanation: The Riksrevision report for the 2007 financial year sets out the following: «Achievement law remains an ongoing problem in the country. Five departments and a number of underlying agencies have received comments on their own acquisition activities. For the third consecutive year, the Riksrevision has comments that the procurement rules are not complied with in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which is the legislative manager in the field.’.» The experience of several departments is that even the Government does not care about the procurement law. We know very critical aspects relating to the involvement of external service producers by the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Ministry of Oil and Energy's contracts were reviewed for a specific period of time and found more than 120 breaches of the rules and that the rules were followed only in 3 out of 40 contracts. It is therefore promising that an overall opposition is so clear in its assessment of the situation and challenges in the area of procurement. While the government parties are really far from boasting of the government's efforts, an effort that I believe has been reasonably unsuccessful, the opposition demands an effort and a clean-up in this area immediately. When an overall opposition is behind the requirement for a separate system of supervision for public acquisitions and for a separate selection to be set up in order to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the legislation, there is a signal that the request is more than full in terms of the Government’s inaction in this area. An overall opposition requires – and also proposes – that the premises on the introduction of simplified publicity obligations for minor acquisitions be fulfilled. To sum up, we're about to have four lost years in the field of competition. Acquisition policy is part of this. The lack of follow-up to competition policy causes considerable social losses for business, consumers and users of public services. Here, there will be corrections both in policy and practice if today's government parties lose the majority of the next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1281	The backbone of this case is that the public procurement code is far too little enforced. There is broad agreement on this, and the Council of State has also confirmed it in a letter of 16 June this year. However, the challenges are that suppliers to the public sector are entitled to effective competition, prudence, cleanliness and openness in relation to public procurement. For this reason, the Christian People's Party has three proposals – one on public procurement supervisory arrangements, one on simplification in procurement below national thresholds, and one on an evaluation of the impact of raising these thresholds from 200,000 to 500,000. This was known to have been introduced in 2005. The Christian People's Party also has three own suggestions. It also applies to public procurement with regard to important care and treatment provision. The aim of these three proposals is to prevent the disappearance of child protection and care facilities operated by non-profit organisations. For these institutions, they have a unique competence, and they represent irreplaceable treatment and care that we should not lose. But the danger of that happening is quite great. The Salvation Army said in a hearing here on the house on June 5th this year that if a new policy is not pursued, the majority of these institutions will disappear and be liquidated in five years. The brainstorm is that it is the harsh supply policy of the red-green government that makes us now suffocating these unimaginable institutions. Hence, the Christian People's Party has proposed three measures to prevent that from happening. Firstly, we suggest that Norway should use the possibilities we have under the EEA Agreement to exempt non-profit organisations from the obligation to provide services. We believe that Norwegian rules today are in fact stricter than what the EEA Agreement requires. Secondly, we ask that health South-East follow the same contractual practice as the other health regions when it comes to health and care services. And thirdly, we have asked that the municipal property that is currently in drug treatment facilities in institutions run by non-profit organisations be removed as soon as possible. It's now, and it's high time, a strong focus on the lack of care. If, in this situation, there is a policy of supply that is so tight that valuable treatment is simply taken out of the way, I must admit that for my particular case, it does not go far enough. Then I'll take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1294	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1297	It is an important matter that is addressed here today. But I still have to say that when you hear the post from Torbjørn Hansen and the picture of reality being drawn, you can almost get the impression that Norway is a country completely without competition, completely without transparency, and completely without control in competition policy. So that's not my starting point, it's not my understanding – after all, we're all living in a society where we have a well-developed competitive tool that works for the most part. For the Central Party and my part, competition is an important instrument. It's an important tool to make the best use of resources, it's important to achieve transparency and efficiency, and it's important to avoid camaraderie, and maybe worse things, to which it's been referred. Of course, it is also a starting point for us to comply with the legislation. There is no one in this room who can defend the fact that, year after year, the Riksrevision has been repacked in relation to the fact that the public procurement legislation has not been followed up. We think that is serious, and we are therefore very pleased that the Government has taken a wide range of measures to address this problem. Competence and information have been pursued. We've cleared up some of the border problems that a low threshold created. I would like to say that I do not share the concern expressed by many people, and express in the setting, related to the increase in the threshold to NOK 500000. That, I believe, provides the necessary flexibility in the interaction between the buyer and the seller. I also feel that that evaluation clearly reflects the same conclusion. Some of the instruments that have been implemented have only worked for a short time, and it is therefore difficult now, at least on the basis of a Document No. 8 proposals – to say that this is a system that doesn't work, and that this is a system that we have to recalibrate significantly. We don't think we have any background to say that. These issues will be addressed widely in the main public procurement communication coming next year. In the case of recordings coming from a relatively total industry, the Centre Party has noticed them. There may be good reason to go into the discussion in terms of role and mandate, but the right opportunity to do so will be in the context of the spring enlargement. That is why I believe that the Committee's position is quite correct when it is said that there is no basis for supporting the proposals that the opposition is promoting in relation to a new appeal body. – That was basically it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1312	Government is not just a major service provider, but a major and important buyer of services. The National Audit Office’s report for 2007 has revealed major shortcomings in a number of public institutions, such as lack of accounting, the purchase of services without being tendered, and the purchase of services from members of board members of whole companies, without the provision of services. It's just the top of the iceberg that's come out here. The left considers that the law applies to all, both private and public enterprises. Therefore, we support the Right's proposal to strengthen the supervision of public acquisitions. When the state does not follow its own law, it sends the bad signal to the rest of society. Why should a private builder follow the law when the state does not? This is a matter that needs to be cleared up, and it is therefore disappointing that the government parties do not support the proposal. The left considers that the prerequisite for the proper use and functioning of a procurement code is the existence of a control apparatus capable of assessing the use and enforcement of the law. Therefore, we believe that the Government should establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions and set up a sample to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public acquisition legislation. The left will also evaluate the impact of the national threshold for the call for tenders raised from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000 – this may have had a negative impact on business opportunities to compete for public sector missions. In our vast country, we have many small municipalities. We have a lot of small businesses, and it's important that everyone has opportunities. Also sales of services of less than 1/2 million. kr may be important for many companies around the district of Norway to be able to compete for. In fact, there may be jobs in the various areas. I record that the government parties focus on the importance of knowledge about the arrangements. Information and knowledge are important in all contexts, but it can never replace supervision. History is full of examples that wise and knowledge-rich people have done stupid things. It may also apply in this area. That is why supervision is important. The left hopes that the Government will take the opposition's concerns seriously and ensure that the public procurement rules are followed. Otherwise, reference is made to the proposals of the minority on which the Left is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1327	The government attaches great importance to correct and high-quality public procurement. I agree with a lot of the things that have been said from this pulpit when that's the case. That means, of course, I'm not happy with the offences that happen in the public procurement code. As many people have said, the government has done a lot to ensure that compliance with the legislation was improved after we took over. I have to say that I distance myself from the ‘lightly wise way’ that the government is dealing with this, and otherwise the choice of words that I thought were far beyond targets in view of the job that has actually been done in this area. What I've done since the summer is to start a review of the whole area. We've changed the law. We've simplified it. We've changed the supervisors – work a lot on it. We have established protocol obligations, and we have imposed a fee for breaches of the legislation. We now need a full review to see how public procurement can be professionalised. We see that here we have several things we can do. As I was inside, in my time as the Council of State, I have had a major effort to improve public procurement processes. In addition to the renewal and simplification of the legal text and the guide, the establishment of the Directorate of Administration and ICT, DIFI, has strengthened efforts significantly when it comes to the provision of guidance and expertise on public procurement. In order to obtain good public procurement, they must be prioritised and organised in an appropriate way. Therefore, the work must be anchored in the rental of the enterprises. DIFI now has, on behalf of my department, an external survey of public procurement. The aim of the survey is to get a better overview of what breaches of the legislation are happening – there we also have, of course, documentation from the National Audit Office that we take with us – but not least what is the cause of the breach of the rules, where the National Audit Office has less information to give us. We have already set up an external expert group – we did in the past in the autumn – to assess the organisation of public procurement and propose measures. The proposal on the table is already on the table. This work is to be translated into a big message, as we have a warning, which is to be submitted to the spring. Measures to strengthen the competence and increase the use of electronic tools will also be assessed in connection with that message, but this is going on every day. As several representatives have pointed out, there is a clear opportunity to professionalise procurement and transparency and the transparency of public procurement through the use of electronic tools. DIFI is also working on disseminating information about public procurement and developing purchasing networks, i.e. getting those who are good, to help those who are less good, and are drivers, as I said, for increasing the use of electronic solutions in the purchasing process. By working with the message, the Government will of course assess whether we should put in place even more measures to ensure better compliance. I agree with the proposers that KOFA is a good tool to ensure compliance with the procurement law. We have increased the permissions to KOFA to reduce the processing time. That was absolutely necessary. When we took over in 2005, we had a case-handling period that was well over a year in the worst cases. Now the procedure period is down for three months in average, and there should be. But we see that we're getting more complexity in some of the issues that are coming, so we're of course considering the ongoing situation in KOFA. The imposition of a fee for illegal direct purchases increased the possibility to appeal against illegal direct purchases, so that it is not only those with a factual interest in appeal that is allowed to appeal, but also others, e.g. Representatives of the Right Party who have used that appeal in order to put a case in focus. I think it is a brilliant example that several actors can be with and complain and put the wrong handling in focus. In addition, the Ministry has undertaken work to assess how enforcement can be improved further. There is a public selection to assess the enforcement directive from the EU. The role of COFA will also be assessed in that work. The selection should start its work now in winter. Like the proposers, I am concerned that the legislation is being broken. However, I do not see it as appropriate to establish a new system of public procurement supervision. We have strengthened the provision of guidance, introduced a fee for illegal direct purchases, and new enforcement rules are therefore to be implemented. In addition, the main message will be to look at additional measures to increase compliance. In sum, this will reduce the number of fractures in the future – preferably the fraction will be zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1348	As the Council of State is aware, we are now in a very demanding situation. The world economy has stopped, and there is reason to believe that we have major consequences of this in the Norwegian economy in the next few months, and probably also in the next few years. Many small and medium-sized enterprises, which are at the core of Norwegian industry, will have major problems. It is important, then, for the state to be more tidy, from the public point of view, in terms of public procurement, so that we can ensure that these small and medium-sized enterprises are given a fair and proper mandate. In addition, there is a need to consider whether the thresholds need to be lowered so that more companies can compete for assignments. Does the Council of State think that the economic downturn we are now in will also help us to take a closer look at this legislation and how it is enforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1355	Regardless of the financial crisis, we look at the legislation. That's what I've been telling you for a long time. The evaluation of the thresholds I have notified since 2006, so it must not come as a surprise to the opposition or the Stortinget that we have actually ordered that evaluation. She was introduced to me this summer. As the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, told the evaluation that what has now been done is effective socio-economic. Then we take her with us in the further assessments of the threshold values and of where they will be located, in the work on the Storing Message. We're going to report it to Stortingen in the Storing Message. I fully agree with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that it is important that one follows the fundamental conditions of competition laid down in the Competition Act. Whether you have a purchase of NOK 50 000, NOK 100000, NOK 500000 or SEK 1 million. kr, calls on the law to use competition and to ask as much questions as possible. That's the community we're dealing with, and it's perfectly obvious that we're going to use them in the most sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1362	I understand that it is unpleasant to hear the opposition's factual description of this area, but we are based on the Riksrevision's description. They describe that fractures are still a constant problem in the state. Five departments and many underlying agencies are commented on for their own purchases, and for the third time in a row, it is the Council's own department that does not comply with the procurement legislation. My question is: how is it possible to make this so bad in the hands of the state when the Council of State supposedly has the attention to the procurement law? Doesn't the Council of State see, when no one complains about these breaches, because no one sees any gain in complaining about the government's purchases, that there is obviously a need for a supervisory system, that is, someone on an independent basis follows up the procurement process, instead of simply relying on a complaint system that nobody uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1369	The first national audit report that I was involved in was for the 2005 supervision, so it was different from me that was largely responsible for the management of procurement both in my department and in other departments. I'm not satisfied with a single rulebreaker. We took action last year – and have strengthened them this year – which was primarily about centralisation of purchases, because we saw that the entire purchasing function was too decentralised, not only with me, but in the whole state, presumably also in the whole municipality of Norway. It is also a policy that has been pursued before, because one has thought it was effective. We see that this legislation is too complicated for people who made rare purchases to be responsible for it. Then it should be centralised, and we have. My ambition is, of course, that it should be in zero, precisely because of the concerns that I fully share with the representative from the Right. So I don't think it's likely to introduce a new supervision. One must bear in mind that the most important control of the administration is in fact the Stortinget's own apparatus, the Riksrevision. And being hanged out of the National Audit Office is probably a significantly stronger cost to a government council than new supervision and more bureaucracy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1378	It is hardly a big bomb on the state council that the Christian People's Party is deeply concerned that unreplaceable child protection and care facilities can disappear as a result of an unnecessary stringency of supply practices. My questions to the Council of State are: does the Council of State Christian People's Party share its concerns in this area? Is the Council of State in agreement with the instruments proposed by the Christian People's Party to prevent these treatments from disappearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1385	As the representative Sørfonn is in, it's no surprise that he comes with that line. We have had an exchange of letters on the same matter, both through written questions and now through the committee discussion. I would like to commend the representative Sørfonn and the Christian People's Party for the focus, not least on the non-profit organisations. As he himself is involved, they are important, large suppliers both within the child protection area and within the care area, and we need each other. But when that is said, I must stress that we have excluded the health and social field from the obligation to provide services. That's where we've done the exact same thing as the Bondevik government. We have extended that exception as a result, so that now a person has competition through negotiations. This means that one sits down with the non-profits and talks about all aspects of the offer, not just the price. For the principle of offering, it is much more strict that a price-specific approach should be adopted. When a person has competition through negotiations, which we are now conducting both in Health South-East, which I know he asked for, and in the whole area of child protection, one can discuss all other aspects of it, quality not least. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]] So here's a lot of work to make sure the ideal organizations are able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1396	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1401	The right-hand party has, as you know, brought competition to a kind of ideological principle that is overriding all other considerations. Some of us, including the representative Sørfonn, are in fact able to see that competition has its limitations. In the last growing-up period, when the bourgeois had the government power, they cultivated the so-called order/execution principle far into the parody. The result was often red tape rather than an improvement in efficiency. Public services were built up and left to the private to the extent that more states are now spending more money on consultants than on their own employees. Over-targeted, they made surveillance a growth area of general government. But they didn't get everything, and now they feel that the time has come for the public acquisitions. Now we have to agree quickly that many public agencies and municipalities have not complied with the procurement rules sufficiently. But what's the reason for this? In my opinion, the main reason is a complex and difficult regulatory framework, a lack of purchasing skills in the floors and time-consuming purchasing processes. However, there is no answer to the establishment of supervision to oversee the supervision activities and further bureaucracy of the procurement process. The answer is simplified regulation, simpler processes and enhanced purchasing skills. Of course, I do not ignore the fact that there are cases where public agencies with knowledge and intention violate the legislation in certain respects. I have experienced for myself that the review of the local authority by a local authority governed by the Right and Advance Party has been subject to competition, contrary to all rules and guidelines. The case was filed with KOFA, who detected a clear breach of the Purchasing Regulation, which the municipality could sovereignly overlook in the assurance that the breach of the Regulation would not have an impact on the municipality. Therefore, rather than establishing a further supervisory regime, we should strengthen the KOPA. I am pleased that the Government has given the KOFA access to impose penalties in the event of a breach of the law. I am also committed to giving KOFA the right of initiative, if it is a desired instrument. But it is these issues that are to be discussed and assessed in the Government's announced announcement of public acquisitions. I'm a strong supporter of seeing things in their proper context. I must also mention that I think it is quite funny that the bourgeois parties actually deny a positive evaluation of the thresholds in the procurement regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1416	I only have a few brief comments on posts that have been on the way in the debate. To Ola Borten Moe I would say that I did not describe Norway as a kind of banana republic in terms of competition policy. We are not so bad, but there is no doubt that the Government has brought this policy area clearly into the wrong direction quite systematically over several years through a lack of follow-up to the procurement law, through a systematic overrun of the Competition Authority and through a weakening of the competition law in relation to appeal proceedings. It is clear that a weaker competition policy will lead to losses for Norwegian consumers, which will result in losses for businesses, and that users of public services will not receive the services they could have obtained with a good use of resources. Gullvåg claims that we have some sort of ideological relationship with competition. It may be, but the point is that competition is an instrument, not an objective in itself, and I feel that the Storting really agrees with that. The problem is that this government does not follow up and use this tool. Then the representative of Gullvåg and the Council of State complain that a system of supervision is proposed. There is no doubt that the breaches reported by the National Audit Office in relation to the State and the Government have not been filed. No one complains about these breaches, and that is because you do not see yourself profited from having a conflict going on with the state. This means that there is a lack of follow-up to a number of public procurements. And it is clear that extending the scope of the KOPA to follow-up on its own initiative would put a much greater pressure on the Government than is the case in today's complaint mechanism. We record that the business community agrees with us in this assessment. I can assure the Storting that procurement policy will be significantly more closely followed up, and that is definitely necessary to ensure a good use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1429	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1445	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1454	Today, the Stortinget is invited to adopt the position of the Transport and Communications Committee on the development and financing of R & D. 858 Rya compound in the municipality of Tromsø in the state of Tromsø. The Rya connection is a subsea tunnel between Balsnes and Larseng in the municipality of Tromsø. The continental link will replace the Vikran-Larseng national road ferry link. The Rya connection will provide a much better internal communication in the municipality of Tromsø and between the Tromsø area and parts of the municipality of Balsfjord. What you can expect is an increase in commuting and an increase in leisure trips to cabins and not least to a fantastic recreational area on the Malang peninsula. Today, at the centre of Tromsø, it is approx. Three miles. The project includes, inter alia: construction of a 3,2 km of two-field road with a road width of 8,5 m, including an undersea tunnel of 2,7 km. In addition, the travel time will be reduced by approx. Half an hour, to about half an hour. Five minutes. In addition, the journey distance for most road users is shorter than it is today, as the tunnel is located elsewhere than where the ferry connection is currently. The vast majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are well pleased that the Government is presenting this matter. We have also noticed the will of the municipality of Tromsø, the municipality of Balsfjord and the municipality of Troms to prioritize the project with guarantees, among others. by means of the compensation scheme for the cancellation of a differentiated employer’s fee, RDA funds, and the prioritisation of the national public highway funds allocated to the project. The proposition also indicates that additional RDA funding could be provided for the financing of the Rya network, and that is very good. This is an important project for the development of the municipality of Troms County, especially for the municipality of Balsfjord and Tromsø. The new link links Malangshalvøya closer to Tromsø, and not least contributes to a stronger housing, employment and service region. And it's important to strengthen these regions. It is important that an individual has an up-to-date community. Good transport solutions are good nutrient development and are good for housing. It's about the future, and about making this place attractive to live on. It is not least about young people who might want to come back here to live here and who might also be able to work in Tromsø. It is about reducing the pressure on urban housing, and it is about making this a more accessible area, not least in terms of accessibility. In addition, one also hopes that there will be an increase in business development, an increase in the housing structure and, as I said, an increase in housing – a new time for this area. Today is a great day for these communities. It's an engagement from several, who's been going on for almost 30 years. I would have liked to have made a list of these amazing and engaged people, but I will refrain from that. But I was so lucky to meet some of these enthusiasts on a visit up there with my party colleague Bendiks Arnesen. It was a fantastic enthusiasm we saw. Finally, I would like to congratulate everyone up there with the day. In politics, a lot of things actually apply, but one thing is completely special, and it's never giving up. This is a visible proof that the work that has been done over many, many years finally comes to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1477	This is the fourth toll case in a short time. Like the three cases dealt with by Stortinget on 4 November, it has its clear peculiarity with toll financing as a regrettable common denominator. This case is probably a regrettable demonstration of how unnecessary it can be done for drivers when the state replaces its own financial responsibility with toll financing rather than by a political majority. Development of the Rya compound on Rv. 858 with subsea tunnel is important for modernising the road transport network in Tromsø and in Troms. The project is a release release project. In particular, it will improve the relationship between commuting and leisure trips between Tromsø and Malangshalv Island. It is a good and important project supported by the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that the State has a reinforced financial responsibility in the holiday relief project. Annual State costs for the operation of the ferry are eliminated when the ferry is replaced by road installations which last for 50 to 100 years. Therefore, the Progress Party considers it very unreasonable that government savings are only included in the financing of such projects by 15 years. As the Progress Party sees it, the State should cover the financing costs of infrastructure investments in general and, in particular, ferries-relief projects. I refer you to a letter from the Ministry of Transport dated 13 October this year with answers to questions from the Committee. And I'm going to do some interesting computations. If the grant period is increased from 15 years, as proposed in the case, to 30, 40 and 50 years, the contribution will increase from 114 million. SEK to 288, 304 and 380 million respectively. kr. The proposal for a financial plan proposes a toll financing of 144 million. kr. This means that an extension of the grant period from 15 years to between 30 and 35 years would render the use of tolls unnecessary. Of that toll of 144 million. NOK 54 million is to be paid by the drivers. DKK to cover the investment costs themselves and a total of 90 million. kr to cover financing costs, which also includes costs of gunning. In addition to the amount of SEK 144 million. The drivers shall pay NOK 29 million. NOK in collection costs and SEK 4 million. kr for construction and demolition of toll station. This illustrates how expensive this funding package is for the drivers; a contribution of 54 million. SEK for investment costs the drivers a total of 177 million. kr. The last time I did it, it's more than three and a half times up. That's what it's going to be today, too! I repeat, to contribute 54 million. kr for a project it costs 250 million. SEK to be built, the drivers shall contribute 177 million. kr. ‘Unreasonable’ is a far too cautious expression, but at least more Parliamentaryly accepted than any other expression that quickly comes forward. It's not easy to figure out the numbers I've been referring to. The manufacture used in such cases covers rather than discloses the real cost of toll financing. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the Council of State in reply dated 3 November this year to written question No. 166 from the signatory so clearly laws improved and made clear the mention of the toll contribution in such cases. So the mere investment contribution from the drivers is 54 million. kr. Increase in government contributions to cover this corresponds to an extended grant period of between seven and eight years. The Party considers that the State should cover both the investment costs and the financing costs of the project. In a letter from the Ministry replying to questions in the case, it states that ‘when the system of alternative use of ferry subsidies is used, it is a condition that a toll company and/or local authority is pushing ahead with future savings, cf. Stp.prp. No 67 2002-2003. Explosion interest charges must be borne by toll companies and/or local authorities». This believes the Progress Party is unreasonable, and we will otherwise work for a change in this arrangement. We're going to have a plan for the holiday relief project where the state contribution period is extended to up to 50 years and all the financing costs, i.e. interest costs, are covered by the state. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote and ask for alternative voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1503	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1506	Sortevik makes this sound like a regrettable matter, at least he started to say it. No, rather the contrary: this is a very joyful matter. And it's a pleasure that the Council of State just gets such issues with such great local involvement over a short time. Then you might wonder why we just get these interest bills from the Progress Party on road investments. Why do we never get them in school buildings, hospitals, hospitals and other public investments? I've been wondering that a lot once. But to this matter in particular. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough and good account of the project and the matter today. This is a typical holiday relief project where, by replacing holiday distances, a more integrated work and nutrition region is opened up. Holidays may be nice to look at the evening, perhaps even pleasant to travel with a rare time in a holiday context. But being dependent on ferries every day, with all the disadvantages this brings, is a significant bottleneck and a strong negative factor in achieving dynamic commuting regions. I want to go as far as saying that ferries are yesterday's means of communication, and will always be just the second best solution for achieving good mobility, almost independent of the quality of the connection. To understand this, I think you actually have to be dependent on ferries in your everyday life. The psychological constraint is significant. This time it is the population of the Tromsø region against Balsfjord that is getting significant improvement, and it is very joyful. Again, there is reason to give great credit to local forces who have worked on the project, for the state contribution is only 15-16 pst. of the cost. This is about the same thing as the state gets back in value added tax. Tolls and local subsidies amount to 50 pst. the cost, and the rest are holiday-relieving agents. This arrangement, which was put in place by the Bondevik II government, has proved to be a trigger for the realisation of many holiday relief projects, which the current Council of State is delighted to promote – and that is very good. The scheme is divided into two elements — operating costs and capital costs — but the scheme is limited for a discount period of 15 years. The alternative to a fixed connection is ferries so to say forever. I would therefore ask the Council of State to consider extending the discount period. The party wants it to be 50 years old. We can at least think of a lot longer than 15 years from the right. There are also a number of other puzzles attached to today’s system, such as: that the grant is to be priced only until the advance is granted. The state's alternative costs of ferry operations would have to run as long as there is a ferry service. Maybe there's reason to be more offensive the other way, for example. by establishing government interest-free loan schemes for the holiday relief project, which we have received in school buildings. This will allow for the remediation of many ferry connections and replace them with appropriate, modern fixed connections. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to come back to this in NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1523	Congratulations on the day! The Rya connection is a good and an important transport project. The new tunnel between Balsnes and Larseng in the municipality of Tromsø will shorten the journey time over the sun from half an hour to 5 minutes, not least the tunnel will give freedom to all those who depend on the ferry. The tunnel over the sound from Kvåloya to Malangshalv Island opens up new opportunities for people in the Malangshalv Island. It is an important project to link communities in the municipality of Tromsø and will also have major ring-effects for the municipality of Balsfjord. It will provide new opportunities for business development and for living and living in the districts. Traffic will increase somewhat, but it is actually something I am not so incredibly concerned about, when it comes to an increase in annual traffic from 270 to 320 vehicles in the year of opening in 2011. It is important to keep an eye on the change in traffic that will take place on Kvaøya over Kvaøjbrua, taking a look at road safety measures there. The construction project costs 240 million. kr. Without good efforts and priorities from the municipality and Troms County, we had not been able to get the machines working for next year. I myself have been involved in dealing with this matter at the time in Tromsø municipal administration. It shows that the matter has taken time, and the matter had been up for many decades before I agreed to deal with it when I sat on the local council there. The state also draws attention, among other things, to: by means of suspension solvents of more than 100 MIU. kr and a purely State contribution of more than 57 million. kr. But this project is realized thanks to a lot of local effort, and thank you for that. The Rya connection is an indication of a escalation of investment in transport in North Norway, also in Troms. The Progress Party has a long comment on the miserable toll financing in Norway. They write about bombing packages in Oslo, about rush time charges and that tolls in Norway are now being used to run public transport. This writes the Progress Party in a setting that deals with transport solutions in the discrepancy in Troms – for this is district even if it is in the municipality of Tromsø. The Progress Party complains about the state of the kingdom and Oslopackak 3 in an attitude about a project in Troms! I can also inform you that the Government's proposal to invest in transport in 2009 is higher than the Progress Party put forward in the national transport plan we are now following. In 2004, they proposed a level of transport less tolls, against which the Progress Party is opposed, is significantly lower than the red-green government will use for transport in 2009. We realize that tolls are necessary to implement solutions, although I would like to stress that it is important that the State has overall responsibility to build, maintain, traffic-safe and finance roads in the districts. The Rya connection is an important signal. It shows that the government rates in North Norway, rates in the districts. The construction of North Norway is also to bet on the road in North Norway. The government is increasing its budget for 2009 among others. with road construction, increased race safety and NOK 1 billion for road safety. The new national transport plan will be submitted to Stortinget and dealt with in Stortinget in the new year. There will be a good bet on Troms and North Norway in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1546	The case rapporteur has gone through the details of this ferry relief project in the municipality of Tromsø in a thorough and good way, so I will therefore concentrate on the good regional impact that this project will have, and on some fundamental considerations based on this case. There is every reason to congratulate both the municipality of Tromsø and Balsfjord after 30 years of fighting to develop communication both internally in the municipality of Tromsø and between the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Balsfjord. The link will significantly reduce the time spent on work and leisure trips in this region and significantly expand the common housing and work area. Here, young people who want to live in the country can work in the city and enjoy the cultural services that Tromsø has to offer. With a ferry connection that closes at 1 p.m. 23 in the evening, one today must drive a long roundabout via E6/E8 in order to come home far out in the night after one has had a pleasant experience in the city. The Christian People's Party strongly believes that the Rya link will facilitate good development in a region where a ferry link is now a brake factor for local and commercial populations. Then I would also like to take the opportunity to point to two factors, which I believe this case could be an example of. Firstly, on several occasions in this period, I have pointed to the fact that North Norway has become heavily dependent on the rest of the country in terms of infrastructure appropriations. This year’s budget for transport is a good example of this. While the rest of the country enjoys the greatest budget of the time, the appropriations for North Norway are on the ground resting. This is not due to a lack of projects and challenges, as Minister of Transport Navarsete has responded on several occasions, but, in my opinion, a lack of willingness to prioritise the part of the country – 30 years of fighting for the Rya connection only underscores this fact. Secondly, we are now reaping the fruits of what happened in the previous period of facilitating the use of ferry release agents in the transport sector. A number of projects have become possible due to the groundbreaking work of government and expansion completed in the previous period. Only in Troms are both the Bjarkøy link, the Ullsfjord link and the Langsund link in line to be realised after the same reading. When examining the national transport plan for spring, we will be delighted to give priority to many new ferry relief projects for the benefit of local and business communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1568	The Rya compound is a continental connection that will replace the current Vikran-Larseng national road network. The link will improve communication in-house in the municipality of Tromsø and between the Tromsø area and parts of the municipality of Balsfjord. The link will facilitate both work commuting and leisure trips between Tromsø and Malangshalvøya. It will be possible to travel by hour with this connection. 23 in the evening without having to go a long way through E6 and E8 as today. Funding is based on accommodated ferry charges, state funds and local bonuses and tolls. It is a very important project for the region that sees the light of day with the decision to be taken by the Stortinget today. It includes the construction of approximately 3.2 km of new two-field road, including a 2.7 km subsea tunnel. Travel time will be reduced from half an hour to less than five minutes on average. It goes without saying that this will be almost a revolution for all those who can commute to work, for all those who might think of busing in Balsfjord – who may not have assessed it today – for all those who want to set up businesses in that part of the region, and not least when it comes to tourism development, this will be an important project. In addition, the actual running distance of most road users will be even shorter than today, because the tunnel is located in a different location from the ferry link. It was added to the start of the project in spring 2009 and the connection opened in autumn 2011. The project is estimated at 250 million. kr. The toll collection will take place in the remains of an unmanned toll station at Larseng on Kvaøya. Both directions are required. With the appropriations underpinned by the financial plan, a tolling period of 19 years has been calculated. Many people have been fighting for this project for a long time. While the Progress Party focuses on the tolls, people focus on the possibilities that this important project triggers in the area. It'll be a new time for people. Thus, for almost 30 years, a person has worked tirelessly to get this done, and so there is so much local willingness to contribute to the project. I point out that there is broad local political commitment to part-financing the development of tolls. The project was treated by the municipality of Tromsø in the autumn of 2006 as a host municipality for the project. In addition, the case is dealt with by the municipality of Troms County and by the municipality of Balsfjord, where a large part of the users of the connection cage. The project that is currently being decided on is a long time ago. It has been worked for a long time. There are many people who have contributed, many who will contribute, but I'm quite sure that it will mean growth and development in the area that is now being extended. I am pleased that the Storting joins in the proposal that has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1587	This is a good project, and it's done a good job, but it's an unreasonable use of tolls in funding. If the tunnel wasn't built, the ferry would go in 20 years, in 30 years, in 40 years, and in 50 years. In that case, it would be reasonable, in the view of the Progress Party, for the grant period to be extended for more than 15 years. What are the principal objections or objections to extending the grant period of the scheme, which is thus limited to 15 years, when building installations which are viable for much more years than in those 15 years when a savings grant is granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1594	It is not that long since the size adopted the guidelines that are now applicable to holiday fixes. One must of course believe that both the government that provided the guidelines and the big deal that made the decision about them had thought carefully about how this would work. I record that both members of the previous government and the Progress Party's representative are now taking up the time frame for holiday-resolution solutions – i.e. the time when the bids are spent on different projects. I'm not in the foreground to look at it again, but the reason we take 15 years is that the Storting has said it should be. Therefore, we apply the rules until the Storting makes a new decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1603	I understand that this is a system that was adopted by the previous government, and that we took 15 years to the ground. The reason why I raised the question is that we've had some experience here, and then it might be time to look at and evaluate whether there's no basis for extending the scheme. I also raised another question. If the discount period is going to be as long as this is suggested, up to 50 years, could it not be as good to set up an interest-free loan scheme by the state? Does the Council have any views on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1612	So far, the Council of State has not considered entering into such a scheme. But I fully agree with those who have said today in the Chamber that the system of savings of ferry subsidiars is a good system and has triggered many important projects that both the previous government and this government have presented, and which I believe people around the country are particularly pleased. And then there's always a lot of possibilities for prolonging the period of grace and other arrangements. Now all national road connections shall be transferred to the State. Then there will also be a fundamental discussion of whether the county authorities themselves are going to make that assessment, or whether it is the state that is going to do it. A work that I am currently looking at in connection with the national transport plan is whether there should be a government guide to the length of the means of delivery for ferry services, or whether one can be free of charge, because then it has full authority over both means and planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1619	I guess there's nothing in the way that the government, if it wants to, can extend the holiday redemption period. I find it interesting that the Council of State every time we discuss tolls, talks hot and great about how great the local initiative is. In fact, I believe most of the local politicians I've met – and it's not just from the Progress Party – when I've been around comitarians and other things, this feels like pure extortion from the government team and from the political majority of the Stortinget. The centre party has said that tolls should be a supplement. Does the Council of State think that tolls in this matter are a supplement, or is it the main source of income for building the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1628	There's no need to raise the voice, because this is a theme that we discuss so often that we can do it with lower shoulders. What the Center Party has said is that the state has a primary responsibility to make sure it's a decent name. That's what the Center Party means. The government also believes that the state should be responsible for it. As a result, this government has increased the rights to trade far beyond what previous governments have done. We are now working with the National Transport Plan, where we have plans to continue that rate. The state's willingness to bet on culture has been irrevocable during this period. When it comes to tolls, I haven't experienced anyone coming in to me and saying that they have felt the pressure. But there are a lot of people who really want to get in line. There is no doubt that one with tolls has realized many projects that, with the policies of the Progress Party, had never seen the light of day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1637	So we're changing lines. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1642	I am very pleased that today we can conclude that a local fight for the Rya connection for over 30 years is crowned with victory. Tromsøbrua was the first large project that was realized using tolls in this area. It came in 1960. Then came Sandessundbrua and the Kvalsund tunnel and now the Rya link, which replaces the ferry between Vikran and Larseng. This systematic expansion of transport means that Tromsø city and its surrounding districts have gained a functional and good transport that serves both the city and the districts around. I want to commend the local people who have been working on these projects for over 50 years. Without their prediction, innovation and incontrovertibility, we would not have been there today. In Tromsø, over 50 years ago, they chose to go in for toll solutions to get Tromsøbrua realized faster than it would otherwise have been, and it was paid down very quickly. This formed in a way the template for the further development of important trade in this area. I've been talking to people in the area who are now benefiting from the Rya connection. They say they like to pay tolls for a period of time to get the connection in place, and to get better travel freedom. The alternative is everlasting ferrying, which is both a worse option and a more expensive one. We who are ferry dependent, as we know, have to pay some kind of toll all the time. The people I've spoken to at Vikran are very optimistic. They say that the Rya connection will clearly give new relocation and new activity in the village and surrounding area. I am pleased that the Government and the majority of the committee have taken the local population seriously and put the Rya link in place. I am equally amazed at the Progress Party, which, through its proposal, is in principle against the local population and will in a way put the whole project far out in time. I look forward to the completion of the Rya connection in 2011, and I congratulate the local people on the big day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1657	I'm just like a lot of people who have been on this platform today, very happy that the government is now presenting a proposition with proposals for the development and financing of RV. 858, Rya compound. This is a very important bet, which it has been working for a long time, for 30 years about, and which, as we have heard, is going to bind Tromsø and Balsfjord municipalities together with an underwater tunnel under the Rystraum. Today, this connection is operated by a ferry link. So the Rya Tunnel means that the largest city in North Norway is getting a completely different proximity to the beautiful area in Malangshalv Island than what has been the case so far. The tunnel will also bind the relatively densely populated area of Kværøya and the islands around the region of Mid-Throms in a different way from what has been the case so far. The Rya connection is not least important in view of the strengthened and stable settlement in Malangen and the municipality of Balsfjord by making it easier to commute to Tromsø. In addition, the link will provide new opportunities for the organisation of good and exciting offers for a national and international tourism segment. You can easily get to and from Tromsø, where there's an airport and a fast route. I think it is great that a funding model has been found for the Rya link, which is based on a split between several, where, not least, the sea is heavily populated – ordinary state funding, the saving of ferry charges, regional RDA funds and toll financing. Then, from time to time – also in this case – there is a debate on just toll financing, which the Progress Party therefore says they are against. Of course, in many places in the country, not least in the north, the population base is for spiders to have tolls as a strong financing base. But I think that precisely in connection with such projects as the Rya Tunnel, which is intended to serve a relatively large population, this is possible and natural. I note that there has been a toll financing which is based on some traffic forecasts, and which has a device that is both cost-effective and practical for road users. And I know that the people of Tromsø and Balsfjord rather take the cost with a ticket for the use of a tunnel that can be used continuously, than a ticket for a ferry that can only go occasionally. This long, beautiful country is facing great challenges in terms of transportation. I'm glad that we have technology and opportunities to provide the people who live on the coast, along the fjords and on the islands, good traffic solutions. I am pleased that the Rya connection according to the decision we are going to make later today is to start in spring and be completed and ready for use in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1674	I record that the Council of State was most concerned with the signatory's commitment and temperament to the pulpit when she was to respond to the reply. But it might be that when you don't have good answers, it's better to think of something else than to answer what you're actually being asked about. I continue to record that the Council of State will not respond properly to what the Central Party is going to be a supplement to tolls, what is the main source of funding or where the border goes for the Central Party. That may be the challenge of the Council of State, but I find it sad that neither the party leader nor the Council of State will be clear and clear on the boundaries of the Central Party in terms of toll financing. Then I understand that the representative Halleraker hears half of what is being said. It's maybe because he doesn't want to hear the rest. You can just close your ears and hope that no one answers. Then I just have to remind you that the representative of Sortevik said, in addition to being critical of the way in which it is financed, that this is a good and important project that the Progress Party fully supports – it was about how one intended to skin the drivers who were Arne Sortevik’s argument as to why we are critical of the project in terms of funding. But I can see from the speeches by the representative Halleraker about tolls and attacks on the Progress Party that the Right is no longer so concerned with tolls, and that it is okay that the drivers pay in abundance – despite the fact that I thought the Right had something in his program that they were against some taxes and taxes. For the Progress Party, this is a purely taxation. That SV is for tolls is not very surprising either. Even the representative of Langeland has been up here and said that we must have a break in road development in this country. Then it's a little interesting to hear the comments of the representative Lena Jensen. She is very concerned that this is a good road project, and this she is positive to. But that SV is for double taxation of the drivers is not a bomb – at least not for the Progress Party – when we see how SV votes in this room. The taxation of large-scale motorists is quite fine, and it is not least possible to double taxation in the form of toll financing. So there's not much new in it. But it's a little sad that there's going to be this kind of debate, because everyone agrees, and I don't understand those who say that the Progress Party isn't for this project. We're saying that we want to go for this project, and we're wholeheartedly in favour of it, but we're opposed to the way to fund it, because it's a government responsibility to fund these types of projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1685	I'm gonna be pretty short. I also noticed that the representative Arnesen believed that the Progress Party was actually against the project or put the project at risk. I will repeat that we believe it is a good and important project that we support, but we believe that the use of tolls as part of the funding is extremely unreasonable. It is my conclusion point again that this case is an example of a very unreasonable bill relating to the use of tolls, where an investment contribution of 54 million. I'm going to end up with a bill of almost 180 million dollars. kr to the drivers, i.e. the significant additional cost in addition to contributing to the financing of the project – an additional cost of 120 million. kr. If we think about a 20-year profit period, we're talking about an extra cost of $6 million. kr in the year of the drivers. We have heard the Council of State say that she is not in principle opposed to extending this period of 15 years that has been included in the case – and pushes a decision on a major issue ahead of her. There is nothing to prevent the Government in a case like this, of course, from proposing to deviate from this scheme for 15 years. Just as it is suggested in some cases to deviate from the reduction of tolls initially set at 15 years, by expanding, it is also necessary to be able to do so with regard to the collection of savings. It again underlines how unreasonable the use of tolls is in this case. It was supposed to be completely unnecessary. It is about extending the seven-eight-year period – extremely reasonable and a very significant savings effect for the drivers to use this important project once it has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1695	When you listen to the debate on tolls, you almost get a sense of something called dejà vu. It's pretty good, and we've been through it many times in this room. There are a few new elements coming from one of the parties to this table. What we can say is: Even with the will to use tens of billions in all directions, many of the projects that have seen the light of day in this period, with the partial use of tolls, would very likely not have seen the light of day with the Advance Party. This is because we've had a period of economic activity, which is because we've had a period of high cost growth. We would also have seen, if the Progress Party were in government, that there would be some limits for all billions – not only for traffic, if you see it in isolation, but also if you look at the totality of the economy. Because it's not that they from the Progress Party as they're in the other committee don't spend their billions on their territory? I was challenged by the Progress Party about toll limits for the Center Party. These limits I haven't considered as my job to put a bomb on. I have seen it as my job to get a project for Stortinget, I have seen it as my job to try to make it as much possible for transport. It includes the use of tolls, because that means we get done more than we do within the framework of the state. So I haven't set any limits either. There are 100 psts. toll-financed road, there are 90, 80, 70, 60, 50 pst. etc. It depends on the situation, it depends on the traffic base, and of course it depends primarily on the local processes, where one has sewn together a funding base that we are given to us. The representative Jan Sahl quoted me as saying that there was little money for North Norway because of a lack of a project. I've never said that. National transport plans will show that there are many projects, but during this period we are implementing an action programme created by the representative of Sahl's party, together with the Left and Right, and there, in that action programme, there is a lack of project to North Norway. This government is going to try to do something about putting forward our national transport plan during the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1706	I agree with the Council of State that these debates on tolls are reasonably predictable, but it must nevertheless be said, because it cannot be undisputed. When Bård Hoksrud, who is normally a mindful and calm man, has such a bad day and in his state of mind also had become a little confused, I shall briefly reaffirm what is Right's policy towards toll financing. Condition number one: When there is strong local will to solve this, we have great respect for it, and support almost without exception all such projects. It is, of course, because, as our local fellow politicians, we see that this provides better mobility, better travel patterns for businesses and people in an area – especially in the case of holiday relief projects, where a ferry is replaced with a fixed connection, and in a perspective where you have to pay for the ferry, and also for passengers, forever. Hoksrud did not want to say anything about the promotion party's policy towards toll financing, because there is some confusion here. I meet the party Vice-Chairman as it is, in debates out in Norway, and get full support for replacing a ferry with a fixed connection to a toll solution. He agrees. In addition, he agrees with toll financing if there is an alternative way to drive. But I am well aware that this created a great debate at the Progress Party's own national meeting, where the party's Vice-President was voted down for his views. So I think it's a little good to be so nuanced when we're going to draw up this disagreement that's in the hall anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1715	I would like to think the Progress Party would have had it so that the only thing we were going to do in Stortinget was discuss tolls. All other policies are almost completely uninterested in the transport fraction of the Progress Party. I had to make a comment, because when this is the case with road break, which I should have suggested, the Progress Party must have misunderstood. SV is very different between road construction in central and road construction in the districts, which in fact can also have good environmental accounting due to the shortened journey time. I've been here and I've probably said 100 times. That it has not entered the head of the representative from Telemark, I can only take notice. But just that distinction is important. If a climate is busy, a grab must be done in the cities, and then one has to go in the districts. One must have road maintenance in the district, one must bet on regional racial protection. That's logic, that. So it's like this -- and then the Rya connection is a good example -- that the Progress Party has a cigar ride here that doesn't belong at all. For what have we received demands from the Oslo Progress Party? What have we got from Os Progress Party claims? Yes: – We want to build a road, we want to develop the country, we want these difficult projects. And then someone here says that no, that's not the way it is, the Progress Party doesn't mean what they mean in Oslo, in Us and other places in the country. No, they don't mean that. SV is actually against some toll projects, because we're against the projects. The Progress Party is for all road projects anywhere in the country – and the State has to pay them. It's a policy that doesn't hang on to anything. But that's okay. Then I must say that it is 'grunt' impressive every time the Progress Party is in position, when they decide the country's budget! They've done that three times with Bondevik. Then the fuel taxes, car charges and toll charges go down – everything will be fixed up. The party with power – it's just a joke! There's nothing happening in the transport sector when they get in position. So the best they could in three years was a whole, hard million for road maintenance. I think I'd let go of the cigar and have it as high as the Progress Party he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1728	The President will say that the word 'juks' is not a parliamentary term, and asks the representative to take note of it. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 575]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1746	We are now considering the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences. The aim of the Directive is to update and improve the system of driving licences and to promote road safety and to ensure the free movement of persons. The Directive is a recast of the previous driving licence directive, while introducing a number of changes to the existing law. The Directive requires amendments to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in order to introduce administrative validity for driving licences, requirements for new sensors to meet minimum practical driving test requirements and the basis for direct effect of driving licence penalties in a Member State also in Norway. For the time being, no final assessment has been made as to which changes need to be implemented by law and which can be implemented by regulation. A letter of consultation will be issued during the autumn of 2008, and a legislative proposal will be presented as an outright proposition. The Directive also assumes that driving licences must be replaced at regular intervals, for example: keeping up-to-date images of the driver, while also helping to reduce the possibility of falsifying driving licences. The changes will lead to a slightly higher cost for the holder of a driving licence, which will cover the cost of obtaining a new driving licence. During the Committee's examination, there was some disagreement as to the age limit to be used. At present, the majority will not decide whether the age limit for driving licences for passenger cars, motorcycles and other light driving licence categories should be 70 or 75 years, whereas the members of the Committee from the Party of Advances and the Right wish to establish that the maximum limit of 75 years of age is being applied and that a licence valid for one to five years may be issued thereafter, based on the medical assessment of the individual’s health status.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1761	The case concerns consent to the approval of a decision of the EEA Joint Committee. There's not a lot of politics here, and I also refer to the statement from the case spokesperson. I hope that the implementation of the Directive will promote the harmonisation of driver card rules across Europe, reduce the possibility of falsification of driver cards and hopefully improve road safety, which was the main purpose of this. So the case spokesman that the Progress Party and the Right have a comment that the plural is not in. When we don't agree with the observation that the general age limit is set to 75 years, it's not necessarily that we disagree with it, but it's based on two factors: first, it's a little unclear what one of these means, and second, this is a question one comes back to. The right hand side and the step-by-step side relate to this note to the proposal to raise the general age limit for running seat from 70 to 75 years. The majority point out that this proposal does not relate to the age limits for driving licences covered by the Directive and that the legislation will change. But I understand that the logic that one builds on is that when one raises that limit, one also has to raise the general age limit to 75 years. The system of the Directive is such that a period of validity is to be introduced on the driver card. The requirement is that you have a health certificate — ‘physical and mental fitness’, as it is called. The validity period will be 10–15 years, and the driver card will have to be renewed at intervals of 10–15 years. The requirement is always that you have the necessary health certificate. The Directive then states that certain Member States can limit the period of validity according to certain criteria. It is clear from Article 7. This means that the current supplementary health certificate after 70 years for 100-year driving licences must be waived in any case, as the validity period of the driving licence shall be indicated by the driver card form itself. So for those over a certain age, you can have a shorter period of validity. It might be this Right and the Progress Party is thinking about. In that case, however, one has to come back to the question when it is to be decided, because, as the case-speaker said now, the directive requires legislative and regulatory changes, among others. to introduce the administrative period of validity of driving licences. That is why the Ministry of Transport also announces that they will make proposals for changes in road traffic laws and the necessary regulatory changes, and thus come back with it in their own pro posal. But before that, that proposal is to be made on a regular, regular hearing, a thorough hearing, and then we thought it was to prejudge a decision one should come back to later, to say something about a general age limit for driver cards now. You have to include the recordings and the listening statements that come with you. To sum up, I don't think we can set the general upper age limit, but we can set an age limit for the shorter period of validity of the driver card. But we're not doing that in connection with the treatment here today, but when we come back to that bill, the odelsting proposition that comes after a useful hearing round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1778	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 576]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1794	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group and 5 minutes per State Council. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1803	It's not all of the things we have in the Transport Committee that invite flaming talk from this pulpit, nor this case, but I'm going to try to do short and factually what it's going to be about. The EEA Regulation we are debating is about public passenger transport by rail and by road and aims to ensure efficient transport services by regulating competition in the market. I would like to point out that the Storting is absolutely necessary for the implementation of this Regulation. The main rule following this decision is that a public service contract is to be awarded on the basis of a suspension of competition. While the Committee shares the view on the excellence of the competitive environment in achieving important objectives of good public service provision, the Regulations open up the possibility for competent boards to choose, on the basis of certain criteria, to award contracts to operators operating passenger transport services without prior competition. The majority are satisfied with this and that the rules of Article 5 on the conclusion of contracts do not apply to contracts falling within the scope of the Public Procurement Code. For my part, I had wanted a greater national freedom of action in relation to how we can organise the passenger transport services. But it's positive that they add their rights to them can be secured by national rules. I would therefore like to point out that the Ministry of Transport has the aim of presenting an odelstningsproposition in spring 2009, with the necessary changes in the laws to ensure workers with the same rights in the event of supply as in the event of transfer of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1818	I'll be careful to smile in matters beyond today – but maybe not in the last one we're going to deal with. We shall examine consent to the approval of Decision No. 185/2008, 4 July 2008 incorporating Regulation No 185/2008 1370/2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and by road. The background to this Regulation is to ensure the most efficient transport services through competition. The Party considers that it is good that, as a general rule, there should now be competition in the purchase of public transport services. Competition in public transport services has proved to be very positive for customers in many places and has ensured that customers receive a much better offer, while the county and state have received a cheaper or a much better competitive offer than the one they had when the service was not exposed to competition. An example of the fact that this has really been the case is the outsourcing of the Gjøvik track, which actually resulted in the state receiving 40 pst. more take-offs than before the competitive outsourcing. It has also contributed to a much better offer for all travellers – a better offer than before the competitive outsourcing. Unfortunately, today’s government has chosen to stop the outsourcing of all other routes after it joined in 2005, despite the very good results on the Gjøvik Railway. It also proposes that the legislation on county and transport industries be even clearer than it is today. I note that there have been some concerns about the rights of employees in the outsourcing of public transport. Here I would like to make it clear that the rights of employees should be fully respected and guaranteed within the current Norwegian law and legislation. While the general rule is that public transport by rail and road is to be put out of competition, it is also suggested that, on the basis of certain criteria, the option of awarding the contracts without prior competition should be given. Nevertheless, I would point out that competitive outsourcing will help to ensure that the public passenger service contract by road and rail will be implemented in a transparent and good way. I want to quote another representative, in a debate in Stortingen for a few days back on this with competition, because it is often in connection with the outsourcing of competition and the kind of things it really becomes conflicts, and where the political divisions often appear. I think that Jan Bøhler said it quite well in the interpellation debate last Thursday: ‘... unless the NSB and the Railway Agency are able to get together and stop referring to lack of funding for many, many years, it cannot be avoided that there will also be other cats on the table, for example. a collective society in the eastern region, where it can be better wound up, or for example. that the model from the Gjøvik track, where the operation was put at a competitive disadvantage and is apparently more regular, must actually be learned.’» [[...]] [[...]] He asked the question about the Council of State now will rush up both the Railway Agency and the NSB to ensure that the trains go without much delay. This was fairly clear speech from a person I might not see as the big, warm champion of the competitive outsourcing, but it actually shows that the outsourcing works, that it produces good results, and not least that it gives customers the best offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1844	Too short to respond to the previous speaker, I'd say that the market is a good server, but a miserable gentleman, not least in the time we're now in, where we see that the release of competition and market forces has led to a global financial crisis. Maybe it's time to have a slightly more sober relationship with competition. Having said that, we are now dealing with a matter which will lead to the award of contracts in the transport sector within the road and rail sector on public transport in the general rule to take place after previous competition, i.e. implementation in Norwegian law of Regulation No. 1370/2007, the so-called public transport regulation, which is to enter into force in the EEA region from 3 December 2009. [[EF]] Under the Regulations, certain exceptions to the general rule apply, including: does not require rail to be subject to a competitive postponement. Nor is competition required where the public ownership or control of the local public transport undertaking. Otherwise, direct award of a contract could also be used if the value of the contract or annual production is below certain thresholds. It's e.g. not be required to suspend competition in the award of contracts for small or medium-sized enterprises operating less than 23 vehicles, where the annual value of the contract is less than 2 million. EUR or output less than 600 000 km annually. The regulation opens up the possibility for Member States to apply the rules of the Regulation on sea routes to the extent that there is no conflict with other legislation. Openings have also been opened in order to require the addition of the same rights to competition as they had had in the event of the transfer of business. To that end, I would like to mention that earlier this year, the Ministry has had a legislative proposal for a hearing which will make use of the legislation for adding its rights to carry out the transfer of activities compulsory in all competitions under the Transport Code. I have noticed that both the majority and the minority in the setting stress that the rights to those added should be guaranteed in the event of a competitive postponement. The legislative proposal on the rights of those adding and implementing the Regulation will be submitted to the European Parliament in spring 2009. Many county municipalities apply the principle of competition today, either voluntarily using the specific legislation on the use of supply under the laws of professional transport, so-called net contracts, or it is directly permitted by the laws on public procurement if a good use of gross contracts is made. The implementation of the Regulation will make use of competition to the general rule for the use of net public transport contracts under the Professional Transport Act, which will therefore have to be amended, as the starting point for today is the voluntary use of competition. The railway laws must also be amended to allow for the implementation of this regulation. I assume that the legislation now implemented in the Norwegian system should be done in a clean manner, and that it should be done in a manner that ensures the proper functioning of its rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1863	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 10 and 11 will be treated under one – and see it as agreed. [[Footing, see page 576]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1893	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1902	I would like to begin by commending the Progress Party and the Right for important representative proposals on immediate action to prevent serious road accidents. We can't go into the new year without taking any big grip. So far this year, 226 lost their lives, towards 196 the same period last year. It goes in the wrong direction. It is time we had a debate here in Stortingen on the perhaps most important issue and the biggest challenge we have in the transport sector, namely road safety. I myself addressed this topic on behalf of the Left in an interview in May 2007. Interpellation was about more government involvement in securing school roads, so that more counties and municipalities can get on with projects more quickly. Since then, the debate on this issue has been completely absent in this Chamber, and at a time when we are experiencing a sharp increase in the number of road accidents. Three years' fame from the Minister of Transport for increasing money use in the field of transport is unfortunately not reflected in accident statistics on our roads. After many years of positive development, we now experience an increase in the number of accidents with serious consequences. The previous Minister for Transport, Torild Skogsholm, of the Bondevik II government, had a strong focus on road safety. She had regular meetings with the police and other professionals, and she was in the forefront of attitude campaigns and awareness at school start, vacation time and Russian time. She introduced the dot load, started the test system with the physical middle parts and introduced the term ‘zero vision’. She realized that in order to reduce the number of accidents, systematic efforts must be made over time. During this summer of the accident, I myself have had a number of meetings with professionals and organisations. This has resulted in a 10-point plan for increased traffic safety. The measures are as follows: More offensive awareness campaigns with stronger instruments need to be launched. There has to be more visible police on the roads. There must be a reduction in the speed limit at accident points. There must be increased bets on physical middle parts. Driving training needs to be of better quality. Driving schools should indicate the percentage of strokes and have a greater focus on risk drivers. Youth needs to be more actively involved in attitude work. It is necessary to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision in order to ensure the quality of the roads. There needs to be a greater focus on road safety from politicians in government and growth. The zero vision must be a control tool. Road maintenance needs to be given the same focus and resources as new major projects. One has to get more goods onto the railway and fewer trailers on our roads. In addition to the great human suffering suffered by traffic victims and by relatives, the cost to society of road accidents is also very high. When examining the national transport plan 2006–2015, Stortinget concluded the zero vision of the number of fatalities and life-long injuries in traffic. The vision implies that the transport system must be set up in such a way as to promote safe behaviour, to protect against the fatal consequences of human error and to limit the damage when the accident is first out. The zero vision must weigh heavily in the priority of road network actions, and the vision should be a guide to road safety work. Increased road safety requires targeted efforts in the area of infrastructure upgrading and improvement, the impact on road users through awareness campaigns and increased knowledge of the consequences of risky behaviour and increased efforts in the enforcement of traffic rules. In the current situation, there is a need for both immediate and short-term remedial measures and immediate measures that can have a positive impact in the long term. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have a number of proposals for action to be taken immediately. I bring this up with the proposals where the Left is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1954	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1957	Today, the size deals with three Document No. Eight proposals that all deal with safety in the transport sector. As regards Document No: 8:144 for 2007-2008, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol, as this proposal includes ideas and measures that will be central to the future consideration of the national transport plan. It is also the case that the National Road Safety Action Plan will be revised in the light of a new NTP. Therefore, the majority do not consider that there is a need for a separate wholesale communication on road safety. The minority, made up of the Advance Party, will itself express its position on the matter. There is no doubt, however, that road safety is a major concern for the whole Committee, across the boundaries of batches. And there are no parties in this hall that can say they're satisfied with the state of things. We need measures to improve safety, especially on Norwegian roads. In the Christian People's Party's transport policy, road safety has had the highest priority. We cannot accept that people are reduced in quality of life as a result of racial danger. We cannot accept people dying in traffic because of poor roads or lack of security measures. There are many reasons why we need offensive action in our country, and the main reason is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, exactly road safety. That is why the Christian People's Party in its alternative state budget has proposed to strengthen the budget for civil society investment and maintenance by DKK 1 billion. A faster pace is absolutely necessary. This applies in several areas. Let me mention someone: A faster pace of racial protection and, in particular, re-monitoring of racial areas is necessary. We need several kilometers of pitfalls, which is a good tool to prevent meeting accidents. We need a stronger bet on the path and bike path. It is very important to facilitate separate routes for walking and cycling. These must be planned and built in parallel with new road projects. We have to relieve the road network by betting on the railway, not least by building multiple cross-rails of 600 metres in order to get more goods across from road to track. We need to secure accident points on the road network, especially on our main road network. An increasing number of measures could have been mentioned – the need is great. But when the sitting government is confronted with the great transport challenges that people experience in everyday life, we often hear a rumor about how much this government has done and how little was done in the last period. There's no more road safety out of a dispute about who's the best in the class. The truth is that the government of Stoltenberg is continuing to invest in transport as the previous government started. But let's not stay at the rhetoric. Until then, road safety is too important a topic. There's no reason to make this a Norway championship in argumentation technique. It's the results that count. The proposals of which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor are important measures to improve road safety. Unfortunately, everything suggests that these do not get a majority, and that the red-greens once again reject good proposals that they themselves have not made. Finally, I would like to stress that we always have to present the zero for the number of injuries and killed in traffic. It requires exceptional measures and an intensification of road safety work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e1985	The issues we are dealing with today, which address the need for different safety measures in traffic, are very, very important. Too many lives — and especially young lives — are lost in a meaningless way on Norwegian roads every year. The opposition's commitment and impatience in this field is good. At the same time, the Government is working to improve road safety. Governments have given particularly high priority to road safety measures in the draft government budget for next year. There is a need to reverse the serious accident trends that we see so far in 2008 and to facilitate a reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries. This is in line with the zero. I am pleased that the investment framework for such targeted actions is almost doubled compared to what was used in 2008. In 2009, more than DKK 1 billion will be spent on road safety measures along existing roads, as proposed by the State budget for next year. There is a need to reverse the serious accident development we are unfortunately seeing, and to facilitate a reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries – in line with the zero vision. It is very good that the department will follow this up in a targeted way. Road safety inspections are important in order to carry out a systematic review of the most serious accidents. It should also be fully in line with the proposals put forward by the opposition today. Then I would like to say to the representative Sahl that we do not reject good proposals, but I would like to refer to what the Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee: ‘The government will shortly present a major communication on the national transport plan, where security, vulnerability and preparedness issues in the transport sector will be key elements.’ In this way, the Government will follow up, and the Storting will also have the opportunity to return to concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2005	In 2007, for the first time in several years, the number of fatalities in traffic rose. Unfortunately, 2008 appears to be a year in which negative developments continue to intensify. The first half of 2008 showed an increase of 40 pst. several deaths in relation to the same period of the previous year. The development is very frightening, and it was therefore very surprising and not least disappointing that, despite this very negative development, the Government chose to present a revised state budget that did not contain a single additional crown for neither operation, maintenance, investment nor immediate action to counteract the sharp increase in traffic fatalities. I also wonder that the Government clearly felt that this development was not enough to adjust the budget to meet the acute situation that had arisen from the budget and until the revised budget was presented in spring 2008. For the Progress Party it was quite obvious that something had to happen, and we are therefore proposing to allocate 400 million. more to immediate action to counteract the very negative development. In this debate, we are also going to consider a proposal from the Progress Party to get its own big message to see transport safety in all transport sectors in the context. Such an overall review will ensure a thorough and proper debate on security. The government points out that this will come back to in the national transport plan, but I have to say that I am afraid that in such a large and comprehensive case as the national transport plan is, transport safety may be gone, or perhaps just a tiny bit of the big debate. It is likely that this area will be given too little space in the national transport plan in relation to the importance of optimum transport safety in all modes of transport. If this is to be achieved, it is important to put transport safety into a global perspective – in order to improve safety in all transport sectors. Traffic safety is currently on the lips of all politicians. Everyone says it's important to make a real boost. As one of the representatives who may be driving the most cars, I often see a lot of what is happening, and not least a lot of what could have happened. Fortunately, it usually goes well. Last week I heard the Prime Minister say after a meeting with several organisations that are actively working with road safety, that the government is now going to make a strong commitment to road safety, and that it is unsustainable that so many people die in traffic. This is very good, but the big question is: When does the Prime Minister intend to start this strong initiative? I have to allow myself to ask this question, because according to the 2008 State budget, the following was found in relation to the achievement of objectives in the field of road safety after the Government had submitted three budget proposals, that in order to meet the national transport plan, the level of compliance would be 75 p.m., but in many areas that are important for road safety, the target is far from being achieved. Here I would like to point out: number of km of road accidents with accident control measures: 61 pst. number of km of intermediate works/centres on existing two- and three-field road: 58 pst. number of km of four-field road: 63 pst. number of km of road paved for walking and cycling: 48 pst. number of raspensions to be rectified: 20 pst. number of points attenuated to be corrected: 32 pst. The objectives of the national transport plan are, of course, far from the enormous needs we face. So when someone chooses to call this to fulfill promises, I can't call it anything but a gross breach of promise, because the number's speech is perfectly clear and clear. I don't want to call the government's efforts to bet. It is nothing more than to slow down behind the targets set when adopting the 2006–2014 national transport plan. In the 2009 budget, the Government proposes to build 30 km of new middle parts, while the need is 520 km. 69 km of motorway shall be constructed with physical separation — the need has not yet been calculated, but it is heaven wide from the government’s point of view. Finally, I believe that we now do not have time to wait any longer. The take-off force must start immediately. It is essential to provide funds for a major improvement of the country’s road-hazardous routes immediately. I would therefore challenge the Stortinget to support the proposal of the Progress Party of 400 million. kr to immediate action to reduce the number of accidents, to show clearly that we have gone from celebration to action. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2052	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2055	2008 has not brought us closer to the zero vision. Continued door and muddy hundreds on our roads. The drivers have a great responsibility for safety on the roads. At the same time, it is known that human errors also occur in traffic. That is why it is the responsibility of authorities and politicians to make roads safer, so that fewer human errors are committed and the consequences of human error are minimised. It was a rather tragic summer with many accidents that led us to take the initiative in our proposal for a representative. Now we're approaching Christmas, and we see that the government has at least to some extent responded through proposals for the government budget that are on the table now. However, the measures proposed are far too small and too inadequate. There are a number of possible urgent measures that can be taken pending a new transport plan. Speed kills, and a small minority of drivers are the biggest problem. The state road authority points out that increased police control activities are an important measure for road safety. Therefore, increased resources are required to do just that. Respect for speed limits and traffic rules is important but inadequate to prevent more people from dying on the roads. Today’s Norwegian road network is not built for current traffic volumes. The Norwegian road standard is itself dangerous. Therefore, in addition to increased control activities, it is necessary to do more to prevent accidents, in particular meeting accidents. In the last five summers, 80 people have been killed or injured on the E18 between Larvik and Bamble. Southwards between Bamble and Arendal is the number 115, a distance where the State Road Service says they can set up midpoints on the most accident-affected distances for between 30 and 40 million. kr. This is a section which does not even form part of the NTP proposal until 2019. Right-wing calls for action by the Government when it sees that cheap and simple measures with documented impact on meeting accidents are not prioritised. Rv. 7 between Hønefoss and Geilo is one of the country’s most dangerous road sections, which are also not mentioned in the proposal for a new NTP. In the budget there are appropriations for three middles in ugly turns on rv. 7th@item: inlistbox That's good, but far from it. E6 through the Gudbrand valley we've all heard about, and parts of E6 through the Northland are heavily damaged. The same applies to lines on E16, E39, rv. 3 in the Østerdalen and many others. It is possible to make simple and reasonable improvements that save lives on the most unfortunate routes in Norway. In view of the dramatic evolution of traffic accidents, new and traffic-proof roads must be built at a much higher rate than today, in parallel with the rapid introduction of physical measures to help bring down accidents. This could be done, for example, by: be permanent or temporary middle parts, correction of crossings, lighting regulation, roundabouts, improvement of visibility conditions, improvement of lateral terrain, etc. The right also believes that we need to think about new things with regard to young people in traffic. A separate youth strategy should be developed to reduce the number of accidents involving young people. I see that the Council of State in its response to the Committee says that this is something she is going to come back to in the NTP, and I am looking forward to seeing that we are now getting some news from the youth in traffic. How can we make them good drivers? How can we prevent tragic weekend accidents where there are many young people in the car, etc.? It is possible to rethink this area, and it is possible to gain experience from countries where, among other things, attempts have been made. driving licences for young people in the past, in return for driving only alone in the car, or driving with adults. It's a proposal you can consider. I am pleased that an overall opposition has gathered around nine proposals to improve road safety. We hope that this will be followed up by the Government in the presentation of the National Transport Plan. We cannot sit calm and watch that thousands of lives are being destroyed or are being lost on our roads in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2074	SV is, of course, as all other parties are aware of the many tragic accidents on the Norwegian road and of all those that are being affected by them. Therefore, of course, different measures are needed to do something about this, and here the Government has started a work. Now this government has been working for three years and has already overfilled the national transport plan that was adopted in 2004. And then I want to link a couple of comments to an individual party. If one thinks that the number of road accidents has to drop, one has to ask himself: if car traffic increases, there will be fewer traffic accidents or more? It should not be so much to understand that if car traffic increases, it also increases the risk of multiple accidents. One of the games on Stortinget, the Progress Party, is to increase car traffic. They are against all measures that can reduce car traffic and thus reduce greenhouse gas pollution. Then my claim would be that if one has a party that is planning to increase car traffic, one also adds up to increase the risk of multiple road accidents. And I don't think that answers well enough when a squander about the lack of effort on the part of the Government. Then, as others have also pointed out, I would like to say that this, with the responsibility of the driver, does not have to be entirely in the background, that we simply say that it is the road standard or the missing middle parts that are the problem. We actually need to focus on driver training. We need to look at young people like Right, looking at different measures to get more responsible drivers, including: provide young people with driver training in a closed area, e.g. Rude forest and other places, so they understand what they're giving up on when they're running too fast and breaking traffic rules. The climate agreement, on which all parties are non-participating in the Progress Party, puts up more emphasis on public transport. There are several ways to make a difference, and the government has fulfilled this. We have a double right-of-sale arrangement for public transport. That means more on the bus and fewer on the road. It is also a measure that reduces the number of road accidents. From the Government side, a railway bet has also been added to a completely different one than before. That means we can move people from road to train. One must not invert this at all to just focus on road investment. It is about moving traffic from road and over to safer means of transport. The Shinkansen in Japan, which has probably transported billions of Japanese, has been driving for over 40 years. It has not been a single traffic accident. See for yourself the train policy of the Progress Party, with all the caristics that come on the roads and that risk getting into a traffic accident because car traffic is increasing. In the end, someone comes up with a claim of a gross violation of promises. The national transport plan overrun by the red-green government is signed by the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV. So we're doing what the Progress Party asked us to do in 2004. That is what we are doing – everything is in line with the policy of the Progress Party. Those who warn against this bet were the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. They would not have such a bet on road safety, road and train safety. They said it was irresponsible politics. And then one comes today and pulls the famous cigar out of the toolbox -- when the only one has to show, all this government is doing is wrong. But we're actually doing what we asked for, and as the Right Party and the Christian People's Party warn us, we're fulfilling the National Transport Plan. It's driving politics. That's keeping promises. There is no promise breach. One must in a way realise that in fact, someone is trying to implement the one that was involved in the adoption in 2004. And we actually get it done. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't do any more to ensure that there's no more death on the roads. This debate is the main point, and it will also be the main point of the national transport plan when it is presented in January 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2091	The government has a very high priority for road safety. I look very seriously at the many openings in 2008. I am therefore pleased that the draft representative and the attitude focus on this important area. I think we have a cross-political deal that this is one of the most important areas to do with. No one can hit his chest and say that one has been closed. This is a long-term job, and the results often show up first over the year. The government shares the concerns of the proposers, and in the 2009 draft budget we have given special priority to road safety in order to reverse the serious upturn we have had in 2008 and to facilitate a further decline in the number of people killed and seriously injured. In the proposal for priorities within the investment framework of the State budget, the government has taken steps towards doubling the commitment to targeted road safety measures compared to 2008. For 2009 a total of more than DKK 1 billion is available for specific investment measures for road safety along the existing route. Of these, approximately 930 million. kr government funds, an increase of about 450 million. kr, i.e. more than one double. In line with the zero vision, measures against the most serious types of accidents, such as meeting accidents, out-of-office exits, and on-the-flying and on-the-flying accidents, will be a particular priority. The government emphasises a broad and holistic approach to road safety work by combining and targeting measures. Measures must cover all inputs, both in terms of investment in infrastructure, in terms of the road and rail sectors, and in terms of operation and maintenance. I would like to mention, among other things, concrete preventive physical measures against traffic accidents. immediate measures following road safety inspections of the existing road, construction of two- and three-way mid-drawing works, increasing the use of permanent and temporary mid-separation measures to create greater distances between running densities, configuration and repair of side decks, removal of side barriers, improvement of curves and crossings, construction of four-way, pedestrian and cycle roads and securing of intersections. In total, emergency-reducing measures of around 700 km of unclosed national road have been planned in 2009. In addition to these physical measures on the roads, the road safety bet includes, among other things, road safety bets. enhanced operation and maintenance, such as ensuring road safety, promotion and retention, enhanced supervision of driver training, different measures aimed at risk behaviour such as: a tightening of the dot load system, automatic traffic control measuring average speed, anti-traffic measures, review of the speed limit criteria and measures to ensure that heavy goods vehicles are well equipped for Norwegian winter driving. I also have the right to increase the fee for the missing use of a seat belt to see if it can help to ensure more secure use of the car. I also have a regular debate with the organisations working on road safety, and we have created a forum for road safety, which will meet several times a year to update each other on knowledge, and to work better than today across different organisations and sectors. That is how we can achieve good results in the long term. With these proposals, the Government will target a target achievement after the 2006-2009 action programme of 110 pst. for construction of four-field road, 108 pst. for articulated works and 94 pst. for non-closing measures on existing roads. Even if the measures on these areas have been reached, we will continue to work towards the main objective that no one should be killed or seriously injured in road traffic. With the lifting of the 2009 government budget proposal, a strong commitment to road safety will be made in the coming year. But we are totally dependent on good cooperation in the work for safer traffic and that everyone is aware of their responsibilities. The government's transport policy is based on the zero vision of a transport system without accidents with fatal or life-long damage. That vision is governing the whole transport sector and all modes of transport, both by road, rail, sea and aviation. Nevertheless, it is in road traffic that we have the biggest challenges. He also distinguishes himself by being dominated by the transport of and by private individuals. This means that there will be a need for a broad and strategic approach to road traffic accidents in the forthcoming national transport plan. Road safety will be carefully addressed in the national transport plan, and actions within all areas of intervention, i.e. road users, infrastructure and vehicles, will be weighted. In line with the zero vision, measures against the most serious types of accidents, such as meeting accidents, out-of-office exits and the floodgates of encroaching and by-catching, will be a special priority. Specific measures will also be targeted at road users’ groups with a particular high accident risk. I look forward to a good and constructive debate on these important and serious areas after the submission of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2123	There are often questions about money, costs and savings. What I'm going to challenge is, isn't it true that if you had spent 5 billion dollars and made sure to set up mid-rangers on the 520 or 530 kilometers of road that are most at risk, you could have saved 80 to 100 people to get killed in traffic? In addition, expenses would have been saved in two and a half years – three years, and lost family or friends in traffic. Does the Council not agree that this is small money? It'll be a little weird when we discuss small amounts of money. What are the most important grips for rapid and immediate action? Could the Council of State mention one action that could be taken immediately — if the Council of State wants to take immediate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2132	I can't be good for the numbers that the representative Hoksrud is operating on. If we are to set up middle parts on existing roads, it means in most cases that the road has to be improved. It requires 12,5 meters in width for middle parts. In addition, there shall be pass-by fields, and it will require an additional 2 metres in width. It means in many cases that the cost is almost like building a new road, in other cases it can make things a little easier. There is no doubt that midpoints have an effect, but this year, the most significant increase is in the outbound hatches. It's More and Romesdal who have the greatest number of casualties, then it's Hordaland and Rogaland, and then it's Hedmark. There are no major planes in the counties. In the counties, it is very much about composite measures, the rectification of intersections, lateral areas, the securing of pedestrian lanes, etc. We need to focus on the entire width; there is not one measure alone that will help us in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2139	There is a strong cross-political consensus that road safety is a priority when we talk about transport. When we deal with the budget for the current year, budget revenue. S. No 13 for 2007-2008, which I have before me here, there was a cross-political consensus that alcolocks could be a good road safety measure in public transport. The Committee says, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change ‘The Committee therefore considers that there is a need for more instruments to reduce the volume of pro-mille driving. Alcohol can be an effective means of removing alcohol-induced bus and taxi drivers from the traffic.» My question to the Minister is: Is there work going on in the ministry to assess alcohol as an effective means in this area? And will there be a theme in NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2149	Alkolock is a theme that we discuss in the Ministry of Transport and which we also discuss in our relationship with other organisations. Especially MA, the Motor Drivers' Association, has been very busy with this. The state road service is testing some of its cars with alcolocks. I think it's positive to have experience. I've said before, and I still know that I'm positive about alcohol locks, and especially in larger running gear where one runs with passengers, that is, responsible for others' lives. I am working on that, and if the work is completed in the national transport plan, I must be allowed to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2154	I perceived the contribution to the Minister for Transport so that she would take the recordings from the setting, and I am very pleased about that. I had hoped that the government parties would have voted in favour of our proposals here today, but it will remain to be seen if they do. I have a question related to the progress of roadside supervision and the evaluation of driving licence training, which I believe is ongoing, but which I do not know enough about: how is progress, if there is such an evaluation going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2161	The selection that is working on an assessment of possible roadside inspections has been in progress for quite a long time and is expected to finish its work at the end of the year. At least that's what plays in the plans so far. I have not been told so far that it does not happen. When it comes to the evaluation of the driver training, it is also in progress. I mean – and the president has to apologize for the fact that I have to think a little bit about – that she should also be finished during the winter, during the first six months of 2009, but I have to come back to the representative with something quite precise. However, this evaluation is ongoing, and it is an important evaluation because there are still proposals for changes in driver training. One of the changes we see independently of the evaluation is whether we should reinforce the theoretical knowledge training and make larger parts of it mandatory. Because it might look a little bad today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2168	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2173	I was inspired to make an article here after hearing Borghild Tenden speak. I have previously noticed that the representative tend has been concerned that this government will not talk about the previous government, so I have to say that I was a little surprised when I heard a five-minute tribute to Torild Skogsholm. So I repeat that it is set on the agenda again, and that it is now allowed to talk about the previous government. Borghild Tenden also had a ten-point plan, and then I think it's okay to be able to go through what the government put forward in the budget, where the government doubles the effort on road safety and spends over DKK 1 billion on specific investment measures. These points are to be found on the great website of the Government, under the Ministry of Transport. There are mentioned accident reduction measures of 740 km national road. Priority will be given to maintenance, including winter operations – very important – ensuring crossing points for walking and cycling, establishing route automatic traffic control – a completely new measure implemented by this government – changing the dot load system, more frequent road checks – i.e. comparable to more visible police – ensuring that heavy vehicles are equipped for Norwegian winter roads, new criteria for speed limits, safer traffic campaign – campaign, i.e. – and special measures for high-risk groups. It may seem to me that this list comes from a Minister of Transport who is very committed to road safety, and from a government that is concerned with road safety and runs campaigns and implements measures to ensure that things get better. So, of course, I fully agree with the representative Tenden that we have to do something active, do something big and do something now. But I think this government is doing just that, and I would also encourage the representative tend to have less focus on the previous government and rather look a little more at what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2182	I think it's time for self-crust. The President sees that the scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon over, but suggests that the meeting be held so that we can finalise the debate on the matter. 10 and 11 before we cancel the meeting. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2189	Two things: one was the answer from the Council of State to the representative of Hoksrud, who seems to be problematical about the possibility of using extra funds to get more midpoints in place. I'm a little surprised at that, because we realize that we've got a response from the council that goes the other way, and that shows that there's actually room to do more if you increase the appropriations. Then it was the representative of Langeland. It's hard to answer him in 2 minutes and 30 seconds, but I'm going to take some points. With regard to the current national transport plan, it is absolutely right that there is a compromise in which the Progress Party is involved. We've been involved in increasing road appropriations. We're happy with that. The Progress Party had a primary proposal which increased road appropriations considerably more. Unfortunately, we did not get through to that. It is not that we share the concerns of the representative Langelands and SV that we will have more accidents if we build more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads. We don't think so! Nor do we share the desire of SVs and the representative of Langeland to move the transport work into a network of Japanese lynch trains in Norway. We believe it is far more important to work to get a more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway. The adjustment refers to a number of transport safety compliance targets after three years with this government. These are the fulfilment targets that we express a little bit of concern about. It is therefore well suited to the objectives of the national transport plan. It would be unnecessary to frame them up again, but they can be found in the setting on page 3, where perhaps the representative of Langeland should take a new reading. He will then see that there is a lack of some in the follow-up to road safety in the national transport plan that the representative of Langeland’s own party is in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2201	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 10 and 11. The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18, and we'll start with case number. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Vitation, see pages 576 and 577]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2235	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2244	We are now considering a proposal from the Right to investigate the situation of people who carry out care tasks for their family members and are paid for care. During the work on the matter, it was quickly made clear that this is a matter that all the parties on the Storting have been concerned with for an infinite period of time. Countless proposals have been promoted in recent years. For years, the same issues have been going on for debate, without the ability to improve the system, despite the fact that all the parties have said that they want to improve it. In the Committee's work, it became clear early that we would not be able to do anything better this time either. I expect that the government parties themselves will explain why, when they have the opportunity, they do not follow up on what they have said or done in relation to the care pay system. Wages and salaries are covered by the Social Services Act and the main purpose is to provide the best possible care for those in need of daily care and to enable private care providers to continue their care activities. Municipalities are obliged to have such a scheme, but it is entirely up to the municipalities to decide how much they want to prioritise this. So despite the fact that the care pay system is very important for families with chronically ill children or disabled children, too many of these families perceive an eternal fight against their municipality, not only to get a care wage, but unfortunately also in all other areas where these families have additional challenges or needs. After today's law, it is up to the municipality to choose a contract of employment or a contract of employment. In its letter of 10 June to the Committee, the Council of State states that the right to leave and leave depends on whether you are a worker or a contractor. As an employee you are entitled to sickness benefits, as an employed person you can take out supplementary insurance. The employee is entitled to a daily allowance, while the contractor is entitled to the qualification programme — totally different rights for the same job. Nevertheless, the Council of State in its letter of reply manages to conclude that there is no need for changes in the care pay system. Part two of the proposal deals with the right and opportunity to get into regular work after long absence from work due to care work for very many years. The Progress Party believes that both of the issues raised in the case are very important to clarify, as confirmed by a letter of 17 June to the Committee of the FFOs of the Disabled. They say: ‘The day system is, in the opinion of the FFO, weak in relation to basic rating. There have been documented injustices relating to the welfare pay scheme of the JRC for several years.» Furthermore, they write: ‘In order for the care pay system to become a real alternative to people taking care of family members, the FFO supports the proposers in the need to review and clarify the rights and obligations of those receiving care pay.’ Finally, they write: ‘The JRC has previously addressed a number of the issues raised in document 8:113 with the Ministry of Health and Welfare.’ As a former municipal politician and head of the Health and Social Committee in my municipality, I can sign that care pay is a very important offer for some families, so that they can organise their everyday life as they think is best for them. The progress party in my municipality therefore increased the budget in this area every year. For some reason, this was very unpopular. The administration simply wanted to reduce the use of care pay to a minimum. They thought the families didn't know their own best. It upsets me that we have a law that allows municipalities to force people to care services in violation of what they think is best. And it upsets me that the municipalities can change the assigned goods, at short notice, either by cutting the care allowance or by removing it completely. These families have no predictability at all. These families live on the ever-changing economy of the municipality and political majority. This is simply not good enough. But that's how it's going to continue to be even after today. I shall deal with the proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2285	The representative, Kari Kjenaas Kjos, has drawn up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2288	The representative proposal we are dealing with now addresses an important issue. Care pay is an important welfare scheme for many who need care and assistance in their daily lives. The scheme contributes to the actual use of the resource of dependants or other voluntary carers. Such care is an important complement to municipal care services and helps municipalities to develop better care for many users. Care pay is primarily a scheme for users. It is not, therefore, that someone has an unconditional right to a care allowance. That's the consideration of the users that's at stake. Care pay may be granted, where appropriate as one of several measures, where this is considered best for the user and the care provided must, of course, be professionally sound. In the assessment of pay for care, municipalities should take into account several factors — whether care is particularly burdensome, whether care is needed and, as mentioned, whether care is provided by the applicant for a wage for care is the best option for those in need of help. In addition, municipalities may take into account their own resources. This does not mean that municipalities may not put aside money to pay for care so as to reject applications on this basis. Each application shall be dealt with individually. However, this specific case is not about those who are being rejected. It deals with the conditions for those who have received an application for a care allowance. However, when I choose to pay so much attention that assessments of care pay should be included in an overall assessment of the user’s needs, it is because both the Progress Party and the Left have promoted a proposal to transfer the funding responsibility for care pay to the State. That's how I see it, a bad suggestion. It only helps to create unclear conditions around the responsibility for the allocation and financing of services to people in need of care. In all other contexts, we aim at coherence between responsibility and funding in order to avoid grey areas. We have too many examples of how users become the losing party in areas where public agencies reduce users to throwballs in an unworthy game between themselves. The majority will not contribute to the introduction of new grey areas for people with high needs for care. So to the proposals: in proposal No. A review of the applicable laws and regulations is requested. It has provided the Council of State with a detailed reply in its letter to the Committee. Municipalities decide whether to pay care. It may be combined with its own income, it may be entitled to leave and holiday pay for the person who has a connection with the municipality as an employee and, where appropriate, to relief, even with the current care allowance for the person who has a care wage as the contractor. Nursing pay is further pensionable income and gives entitlement to sickness benefits for employees and contractors, including, where appropriate, supplementary insurance for those who have the status of self-employed persons. In proposal No 2 opportunities for development of skills and re-employment are requested to ensure transition to normal work when care is lost. Here, too, state councils have reviewed the possibilities that actually exist, both in terms of daily allowances, individual benefits, vocational rehabilitation and qualification programmes. So there are possibilities. However, there is no guarantee that everything will work optimally. This is also the reason why an interministerial sample is reviewing parts of the care pay system. Governments have also announced that there will soon be a hearing. So the representative proposal is essentially to open the doors. That's the opposition's privilege, of course. However, the majority see no need to promote new proposals on investigations that have already been made and are soon ready for consultation. In this context, it is also interesting to read the minority’s references to their own previous proposals. It must be allowed to ask why no initiative was taken to put these proposals into practice at the time when today's opposition parties actually had the opportunity to do something about it. Finally, the opposition writes in the setting that the toughest thing for many families is the fight against the public, with special rules, bureaucracy and form. Then I would like to point out that that fight is not a matter of caring wages. I would like to mention again the inter-ministerial sample reviewing parts of the care pay system, and I would also like to mention that in the State budget under the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality there are several measures in relation to families with disabled children. It's important, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2311	The care pay scheme is a very important scheme for families with disabled or seriously ill members. The system provides room for care in our very closest relationships, even where care is so extensive that it is not compatible with other work, or the pressures would otherwise make it impossible for those in need of care to remain at home. This is a form of care that we need to protect, and which we need to ensure works as best as possible. While the system must, of course, be judged primarily on the basis of the human needs that exist, it should also be mentioned that many beneficiaries of care pay, through their efforts, do a job far beyond what we normally put into normal working conditions and save public money. On the right, this case was promoted in the light of a specific enquiry. Unfortunately, we have more later. Our case was about a single caregiver who for 18 years had taken care of his multi-disabled son to find out that she did not have a claim for a day's allowance or a day's leave. After having been on duty for 18 years with a monthly salary of approx. 10 000 kroner a month I understand that the bitterness is growing, not least in terms of what she has saved society for, and what could have been the scenario if she had left the child to public care, which, of course, for her was no real alternative. I note the letter from the Council of State to the Committee and see that today's system contains different alternatives, which in themselves are well justified. The problem is that today’s system appears to be a desktop product that does not capture the reality that is out there among those involved. The enquiries we receive tell us that information does not reach, that the situation surrounding the establishment of care pay in practice does not offer choices, and that the acute problems the families face, completely overshadow the idea of what comes after, perhaps in many years. We are also aware that some have not been briefed on the consequences of which form of association is chosen or that information about this has not been provided at all. For example, it probably came as an unpleasant surprise for the specific case this case jumps out of. In this context, it is important to stress that this is not a matter of a poor person, on the contrary, of a person who was well educated and very fit to take care of his or her interests under normal circumstances. I have noticed that the Council of State, through its letter to the Committee, believes that it has answered the question of what are the rules in force in this area. It may be, but we who asked the question, had thought that a slightly more thorough review would lead to some suggestions to improve the arrangements for the people concerned. In this way, I see the response from the department as a little imaginative and a little bit enthusiastic about going into the real issues. In the right, it is considered that it should have been assessed whether a uniform system could be established in which, for example, full social rights could be granted irrespective of the form of association. I refer you to the letter from the Disability Joint Organisation that follows the case. The letter substantiates the reality we've been given from several people that this applies to. I hope that the Government and government parties will take this into account when they will now continue to work on these matters, even if the Right's proposal is being voted down today. With this I take up the suggestions on which the right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2330	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2333	The proposers from the Right are addressing a very important issue here. Care pay is a very important scheme for families with disabled or seriously ill family members. It is important that people taking care of family members who would otherwise be dependent on public services should not be found unlucky after long-term absence from work when care ceases. Therefore, it is regrettable that the care pay system of many is seen as unforeseeable, and makes it difficult for many to plan their family situation in the long term. The Christian People's Party believes that the reason for this is that the scheme depends too much on the prioritisation of the scheme by each municipality, as well as the municipality's annual budget. Since care pay is taxable and the municipalities pay an employer’s fee, it is natural that the care provider should be treated in the same way as other employees in relation to holiday pay, sick pay, labour market measures, unemployment benefit and pension points. After today's legislation, it is up to municipalities even if they choose a contract of employment or a contract of employment, and what other rights may result from the contract being chosen. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party is in favour of extending the system of care pay to more groups, including. relatives who are able to provide care for their own parents or partners during illness. The problem is that today's care pay system is not used up, because there is no standard for the amount that can be paid out, and in addition, significant bureaucratic obstacles have been put in the way of the scheme. This is unsustainable. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal that the Government review the current laws and rules on care pay, clarifying the tax obligation and earning rights for those receiving care pay. The Christian People's Party also supported the proposal that we have to have arrangements that allow those who carry out welfare tasks for close family members to have opportunities to develop their skills and reintroduce them in order to ensure transition to normal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2348	Today, we are dealing with an important matter of pay for care. In the event of an incubation, the Left is in agreement with the Progress Party on Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox We're not going to do that. The background for this is that we initially have another model that goes out on a split layer between the municipality and the state. We believe that it is important to also responsible the municipalities in this scheme. Many people believe that today's care pay system is perceived by many as unforeseeable and makes it difficult for many to achieve long-term planning. The reason for this is that the scheme depends to a large extent on the priorities of each municipality and the annual budgets. Left in favour of a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:66 for 2006–2007, on care allowances for parents with disabled children. That proposal was made because one discovered that there was such a different standard of care pay levels around the country. There are a number of schemes in this area, including: related to care allowance, but those arrangements are not sufficient today and exclude those who have not had ordinary work. This was the background to the proposal to set a standard of care pay and to make it unbureaucratic in each municipality. I am also in favour of extending the care pay scheme, as previously mentioned by the representative Woie Duesund, to several groups, among others. relatives who are able to provide care for their own parents or partners during illness. The problem with the care pay system today is that it is little used and that there is no standard for the amount that can be paid. Comments in several professional journals are also referred to, among other things. is part of the problems. I would like to point out that even though someone is trying to point out that this is turning open doors, I will commend those who are making the great effort for them. You can't help but notice that they're making a big effort for society, and that's why this is important. Today's system does not capture the flexibility that many people need to do this work. The left is included as proposers for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2363	This setting concerns questions of pay for care. The scheme is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare. Since the matter has been dealt with in the Labour and Social Committee and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has previously answered the Committee's questions, I have agreed with the Minister of Health and Care that I am following up the deliberation process. In Document No: 8:113 for 2007-2008, point 1 of the proposal for a representative asked the Government to review the applicable laws and rules on social security, clarifying the tax liability and the right-making process. In this respect, I refer to the letter of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion of 10 June 2008 to the Labour and Social Committee. I believe that the letter answers any questions about the rights of the care allowance in relation to the provision of social security benefits, etc. : Wages and salaries are pensionable income which gives rise to pension points and entitlement to sickness benefits. Furthermore, if the care provider has a contract with the municipality as an employee, he provides compensation for the day-care allowance. Unpaid work can also give entitlement to service. When parts of the Committee show that there are still uncertainties as to the rights deriving from the pay of care, it seems to be really a matter of the care pay system itself. In connection with the Government's promise to strengthen the welfare pay system, I am aware that the Minister of Health and Health wants to take the initiative to investigate the scheme. With regard to point 2 of the proposal for a representative to ensure the transition to normal work when care ceases, I share the Committee's view that it is important to meet the needs of those who have exercised long-term care for close relatives. In addition to general labour market measures, individual benefits and, where appropriate, occupational rehabilitation, the need for qualification and related social benefits for some persons in this group could be addressed through the qualification programme. Persons with significantly reduced working and income capacity and with no or very limited right to benefits under the Swedish Social Security Act are offered when participation in the Programme is appropriate and necessary to enable them to enter into employment. The background to such a situation has no bearing on the right to programmes and benefits. Therefore, past caregivers could also be included in the programme, regardless of whether they had paid care. The Committee asked Innst. S. No 148 for 2006-2007 that the possibility of establishing a transitional system of income protection and qualification is assessed in relation to those who, following long-term informal care efforts towards the related lack of income and qualifications to get into work. The Committee referred to the corresponding comments of the Health and Care Committee during the examination of the St.melding. No 25 for 2005–2006 Mestring, opportunities and meaning. As announced in the Minister of Labour and Inclusion's letter to the Committee, a consultation note is being prepared to address issues related to combining work and care. In this context, the need for any further transitional arrangements will also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2382	The Council of State letter, which I referred to in my article, states that care pay should be paid according to the needs of the users – and then the «user» stands in italics to stress that that is what is important. Then it says that in some cases the municipality must give priority to using its own personnel for budgetary reasons. My questions are, what's the most important thing? Is it the municipality's priorities in relation to its own budget, or is it the user's needs that will be decisive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2389	As you can see from my letter and what I have said now, the needs of the users are going to be at the centre. That is also the reason why I share the position of the majority in the position we are now discussing, for a possible transition to government funding of that type of scheme I think will just be a step away from it. That is why care pay is part of the municipal service provision, precisely on the basis of the fact that one can then take local considerations — adapt the provision to the individual user, the possibility of the care provider, obtain the local assessment — and have it as the starting point for finding good and practical solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2394	In meeting the concrete examples that we have had in this case, it has been focused on the circumstances surrounding the establishment of the scheme for individuals. And there are people who are really in a very tough situation, where you might not think 10, 15 or 18 years in time, and where you're really happy with the help you get. When the information about its consequences is quite poor, the starting point is very demanding. When the department – or departments, I understand – wants to work on this matter now, you are simply set to cut through, that is, you can get up a system that is neat and easy to deal with, and that does not invite them, I almost get to say, the traps that we see today, and that gives full rights, short and fine, without any more thickeners? When can we – in addition – wait for a response from the departments on how this works?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2401	I believe everyone in this case agrees that for the care provider far beyond what we can expect a person to set up in the spare time for his or her loved ones – and if one has to take part of what would have been working time for care provision – there should be good arrangements. There is a background for the introduction of care pay. Then it's important that those rights become known, as the representative Thommes points out. I cannot say anything about when the Minister of Health is ready with the review he is currently conducting, but there is no doubt that the starting point for it is just to make the arrangements transparent and to sort out all the questions that the representative has. But I also think it is important – and I have the impression that the Right agrees – that we do not control the detail to such an extent that there is no possibility of local adaptation that makes the supply the best possible for caregivers and caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2408	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2413	The issue and problem raised here is very important for many families who are struggling with day-to-day unforeseeability in today's care pay. We are constantly experiencing examples of today’s legislation not working satisfactorily for most people. Many people are struggling with long-term planning of their family situation, because the care pay scheme depends to a large extent on the priorities of each municipality for the scheme, often in relation to the fluctuations in the annual budget of each municipality. It is very often down-prioritised in a tight community economy. We all know that especially families with disabled children have a tough everyday life, where the fight against the public often gets very tiring. We also know that families where a parent or a child suffers from a long-term illness, such as: Cancer, too, are groups that come out very badly when they have to be away from work for long periods of time to care for their loved ones. Since care pay is taxable and the municipalities pay an employer’s fee, it is natural to assume that the care provider should be treated in the same way as other employees in terms of holiday pay, sick pay, labour market measures, unemployment benefits and pension points. Therefore, the right considers that it must be a clear objective to have a system of equal pay across the country. This means that we need to have the same form of association and the same rights and obligations for all carers. The issue of care pay has been raised in the Storting many times, and it is now high time that we got a final review and an improvement of the current laws and regulations on care pay, where tax obligations and the right generation of those receiving care pay are respected in line with the proposal of the Right and the rest of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2428	The care pay system is an unusually good system, and it came to fill in a service appliance that had been missing. The fact that a system is good at today's level doesn't mean it's done. Adjustments are needed, and it can be seen that there are individuals who fall through and do not get the best possible use of the scheme. I hear arguments that the information does not reach those who are entitled to services. I hear information that the consequences for those who receive the services are not being clarified. That's absolutely right. There is a lot of information in the service sector in Norway that does not reach those that actually apply. It is true that the consequences of using this service are not clear to all users. This does not mean that it is not important to have a complete review of this system with a consultation rather than to decide the case already today. There's something about the hasty round. This is complicated. It is important that we can continue to make arrangements that can actually be arranged individually in the municipalities. I have to say, I have great concerns that there is a system in place where you have to relate to another level when you are going to put together a service apparatus for the users. One has to deal with a government service and a municipal service – two different levels, two different budgets: how are decisions actually to be implemented? I see a lot of good insights into what has been said, but I think that the consultation round is perhaps the most important thing to find a form that can actually make the municipalities provide and make varied offers to the users who need it. This is about users who are very different: the family situation is different, and the need for help is different. So to use the period ahead when the department now does a job on this, and sit down in the consultation round with all the different user groups that have this service, I think is the most important thing we can do in this case. Maybe this time we'll be a little slow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2439	This summer, the committee received a letter from a mother. I've been talking to her, and she's known that I'm reading up parts of that letter in the hall here today, because it's a reflection of most of the enquiries that come: "We have a 9-year-old son. He has epilepsy, he can talk a little, he uses diapers, he runs off. [[...]] [[...]] He beats, kicks and throws things after others. [[...]] He's got a lot of behavioral problems. He's weak. He needs supervision 24 hours a day. [[...]] [[...]] We got 10% care pay, but now the municipality has stopped the care pay. [[...]] They have done this without the home situation changing and we have not received any other help. [[...]] As municipalities now manage care pay, the differences become large. Some people may get a lot of care pay, while others with the same starting point may not get a full care pay. I hope that Divk can take this up on Stortinget. Get a fairer pay for care, so it's not up to the municipalities and their economy. [[...]] Get paid for by law. [[...]] We who have children with disabilities do not have the capacity to argue with all public authorities. When I can't go to full-time work because of our son, I thought that the care allowance could replace something of the lost income we have. [[...]] If the families are able to exist, no one cares».
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2463	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 577]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2471	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2539	During the debate Kåre Fostervold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2569	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4–6, by Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2583	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4-6, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2612	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the competitive consequences of the increase in the national threshold for public procurement from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000 implemented in 2005.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2628	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2661	During the debate Arne Sortevik presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2675	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2737	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-9, by Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 10, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2762	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1-9, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2847	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2875	During the debate, Kari Kjönas Kjos has presented three proposals. It's proposal No 1, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Progress Party – this is the document in the seats of the representatives, that the Left is also included in the proposal. That is not the case. There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for the transfer of financial responsibility for care pay to the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2901	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e2916	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the applicable laws and regulations governing the remuneration of care, clarifying the tax liability and earning rights of those receiving care.’ The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:113 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-20.ana.ud1362e3118	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting ends? - The meeting is over.
