ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e57	An application for the birth permit of the representative Tord Lien was made from 31 March to 4 April from the Enlarged Party. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e75	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e78	On behalf of Bjørg Tørresdal, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself I promote a proposal for a representative on energy saving measures in households and commercial buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e83	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e86	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Kenneth Svendsen and myself on national guidelines on the quality and quantity of the TT system and a financing system that ensures TT transport in line with the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e91	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure. We are now going to vote on the matters that were being handled yesterday, when the vote was postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e103	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 5, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case that provides children over 3 years of age with free core time in kindergarten if their parents receive cash support for younger siblings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e132	There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation into the need for the expansion of the Oslo Tunnel’s capacity and submit it to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e146	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asked the Government to amend the Health Business Act in order to ensure an equivalent level of responsibility for the initiatives and responsibilities of healthcare and care interaction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e160	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e194	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2-5, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party The President takes note of the fact that proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, is distributed among its representatives in altered form.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e206	Arne Sortevik - for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e210	I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox OPS is for – it is an operational implementation method, not primarily a method of financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e215	The proposal No will first be voted on. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘The size assumes that if decisions are taken in the Storting on financing based on partial toll financing of Oslopackak 3, such funding must be based on legally binding agreements on the volume and payment of State contributions of 12 billion. 2008-kr. The size assumes that State contributions are paid in advance annually at the sum of the first 10 years in order to avoid interest costs on any temporary loans for the implementation of the investment programme, as the Municipality of Oslo and the County of Akershus provided for in their decisions on Oslopackakt 3 of 14 November 2007, for the first time in 2008. The budget provides the following powers to impose obligations on the State relating to the financing agreement for Oslopackak 3: The majority agrees that in 2008 the Ministry of Transport may agree to the State budget for Oslopackak 3 in addition to the appropriations allocated under the heading. 1320 State road transport operator number 30 by up to 720 million. kr. and on the cap. 1330 Special transport measures Item 60 separate grants Collective grants of up to 480 million. kr. The majority agrees that the Ministry of Transport in 2008 may commit the State for future financial years in addition to the appropriations allocated for the implementation of the measures in Oslopackakt 3 on a case-by-case basis. cap. 1320 State road transport operator item 30 and cap. 1330 Specific transport operations item 60 separate grants collective actions so that the overall framework for the country's commitments does not exceed 12 billion. 2008-kr.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size assumes that if decisions are taken in the Stortinget on financing based on partial toll financing of Oslopakset 3, this must be based on a total economic framework of 54 billion. That's 60 pst. used for investment in road projects and 40 pst. for investment in public transport. The Storting assumes that both the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County have veto rights in relation to the change in funding, order and project portfolio according to the section. 3. in Decision No 14 November 2007.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e248	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision does not require the Government to put any obstacles in place to Oslo and Akershus deciding to use OPS organisation for the projects in the package of measures appropriate to it’.» This is where the Progress Party is recommended to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e264	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Authority decides that Oslopackak 3 will be implemented as a State-funded project based on the following assumptions: (a) The investment programme for road and public transport is implemented as referred to in the St.prp. No 40 and with the order and project portfolio as set out in decisions in respectively. [[2007-2008]] Akershus County Municipality and Oslo Municipality. Implementation is ensured through its own state company in which Akershus County and Oslo Municipality also participate. A new case on government governance and state financing of Oslopackak 3 is therefore submitted as soon as possible. The size requires State advance if necessary for progress in the investment projects.(b) Purchases of collective services by the State are part of the project of 100 million. kronor annually and granted annually over own item on the State budget, for the first time in the Revised National Budget 2008. c) The remaining started but unfunded projects in 1 and 2 are financed by the State. [[2008-krona]] This is a matter of its own in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget. The size requires a State advance if it is necessary for the progress of the investment projects. (d) Tolls in Oslo shall be closed as soon as possible and by 30 June 2008 at the latest.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a continued project for the modernisation and efficiency of the transport network in the triangle Hamar-Skien-Halden, based on State project financing, and with a time perspective 2010-2030. [[Austrian package]] The size assumes that this work will be carried out in the preparation of the Government’s final proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 as a separate state project with clear state full funding, and outside the NTP framework. The size assumes that the project is treated as a matter of its own.» The Committee had recommended that: The cancelation consents to: 1st@item: inlistbox The toll company is allowed to collect tolls for partial toll financing of Oslopackak 3 Step 1. The terms and conditions are specified by St. prp. [[2007-2008]] No 40 and Inst. [[2007-2008]] S. No 170
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e316	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for changes to the Road Traffic Act to prohibit the transport of school children and young people by school bus. The additional costs incurred by those responsible for transport will be incorporated into the State budget.» The vote boards showed that there were 71 voices against and 30 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 10.09.05]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e337	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e342	Then there will be 72 votes against and 29 votes in favour of the proposal from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal is therefore not adopted. There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the introduction of a transitional arrangement, which provides for the use of positive instruments to accelerate the pace of replacement of buses which do not currently have seat belts and are used for public transport.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there are better requirements for the uniformation of school buses and to ensure, as a minimum, that the Vehicle Regulation is complied with.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e379	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 March 2008: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the introduction of new driving and rest regulations is postponed. New regulations are being developed which take more clearly into account specific Norwegian driving conditions, which continue to exempt transport within a radius of 100 km and which generally grant exemptions for road maintenance/winter operations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e396	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 March 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for a permanent derogation for circus activities from the provisions and regulations on driving and rest periods of the Road Traffic Act, including requirements for tachographs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e410	Then we have finished voting on agenda No. 61, and goes on to deal with the matters listed on agenda No. Sixty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e423	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes per party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e432	This case is related to St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future that we treated before Christmas. Therefore, in the comments on the present case, the lot has referred to the comments made by the respective lots. The case of the NRK poster has not been particularly demanding for the Committee. The notes follow well-known political clues. I assume that the individual parties present their views in the debate to the extent that they deem it necessary. In the context of the treatment of Broadcasting in a digital future, the Right stated that the government’s governance of the NRK could become altogether too tight. This concern focuses primarily on the sum of the formal management tools related to different approval schemes that we dealt with at the time. With regard to the public broadcasting poster, we are joining this, because here we can create an acceptable framework to communicate the political objectives we have for a publicly funded public broadcaster. However, in the light of the principles we have in our country for editorial freedom, it is imperative that the poster be designed on a general level, yet with meaningful content. As it is now available, built up around five pillars, we believe the ministry has taken an acceptable balance from this balance. However, there is reason to stress that any future revisions of the poster - because we have to expect that to happen - are done in a way that has well prepared reviews with a comprehensive perspective. We know that the Storting has a tradition of dealing with individual questions related to the NRK. Not least recently, we have had questions raised at a rather detailed level. It is important that the debates are taken in relation to the whole of such a poster. It's also important that audits do not occur point by point, so that over time we can actually get a tightening that can be so extensive that it will go beyond the NRK's free editorial position. I hope that through this case we will have a good framework for the future discussions we're going to have on the NRK, that we can manage to keep this on a general and fundamental level, and I think that the poster, as it now exists, will be a good starting point for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e447	The political governance of the NRC shall be superior and in principle. It is, in my opinion, the most important objective of this document, at least one of the most important. Still one sees that some people think it's a political task to decide what kind of program the NRK is going to broadcast on radio or show on television. Most people, however, say that it is an editorial task, not a political one, to decide over the Norwegian peak, Keno and other programs. The NRK poster is a good document for a superior principle management of the NRK and will provide a better way to steer the political demands and expectations of the NRK. Until now, we have had too much demands and expectations for the NRK, which may have seemed somewhat unwieldy. The NRK poster will make it easier, more accessible and easier to understand both for NRK itself, for collapsing and government, and not least for all users of NRK's services. A lot of people have said about the NRK poster. Most of them are in that the NRK poster will be a good way to bring together demands and expectations towards the NRK. The government party supports the poster submitted with the changes made by the government after the round. Reasonable adjustments have made the document even better. In our opinion, the document covers what is reasonable to expect from the NRK. I mean it's a strength that the committee broadly agrees that this way of governing the NRK makes sense. Right, the Progress Party will come once again with its usual proposals on privatisation, hall, license, etc., as we are watered to. In that way, you're actually saying that you're against the whole NRK poster, it wouldn't have been useful for any poster if the Progress Party had been given the decision, for the simple reason that we didn't have any public broadcasts. We don't need to reopen that debate today, as long as the other bourgeois parties are actually some of the government parties about the meaning of the NRK poster and how it should be understood and used. The government parts are some of the five arrows and the various sub-points that make up the poster. When we do not want to change the poster when it comes to the point of ‘reflecting Norway’s religious heritage’, it is because, in our opinion, the proposal from the opposition party is to understand as almost a proposal for a Christian purpose paragraph for the NRK. We're not fans of that. When the Government proposes that the ‘NRC should reflect Norway’s religious heritage and the diversity of life views and religions in Norwegian society’, we have in a good way covered both what is known as Christian tradition and culture, and the fact that Norway is made up of many other religions and views of life as well as Christianity. The technological developments in the media field have been great and extensive. The NRK poster will make it easier to have good reviews of the entire public broadcasting mission whenever necessary. We have simply received a more modern and timely management document.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e462	For us in the Progress Party, it is obvious that the NRK should be an institution with great editorial freedom. Nevertheless, the NRK is in a special position, as it is the only media company in Norway that is co-financed by a TV tax - so-called the NRK licence. We are strong opponents of this system and state ownership, but we realize that we are also alone in this view. We therefore believe that it is legitimate, including for us, to take part in the debate on how the NRK's activities are to be conducted. The Progress Party believes that the NRK licence is an anachronistic tax affecting minimum pensioners, poor and other weak groups unreasonably. We've taken up this relationship and other conditions around the NRK a number of times, among other things. in Document No: 8:11 for 2006-2007. The NRK's specialty is the result of an outdated thinking. The fact that in a modern society, where there is a rich and still growing flora of media content, a licensed government channel is an anachronism. This point is underlined by the fact that even those who do not look at the NRK are taxed raw. So a little bit about the proposed arrows for the NRK. Pilar 1 is about to support and strengthen democracy. The Progress Party believes that it is obvious that the objective of the NRC's activities must be to support and strengthen democracy. It is important to recognise that Norway is a pluralist, Western democracy, and any public broadcaster benefiting from public funding, public privileges, concessions, public ownership or other advantages should support and strengthen that democracy. At the same time, we believe it is naive to believe that editorial content can be completely objective and impartial. It is one of the self-deceptions of journalism that the media can be objective and elevated above the ongoing debates and divisions between social views. This is why it is particularly important for the NRK to realise that they need to avoid much more divergent views in the societal debate. An example of the NRK's lack of coverage of both sides of a case is the coverage of Israel-Palestine, where for years it has served as a «microphone stand» for forces that are negative to Israel. So Pillar 3 about strengthening Norwegian language, identity and culture: The Progress Party believes that the arrow itself is well designed, but in its profound description the Government makes it clear that it is not at all Norwegian culture, language and identity to be strengthened. It is clear that the government will use the NRK to transform Norway into a multicultural society, which is no longer Norwegian. The government assumes a wide range of other instrumental requirements, such as nynorrhea and specific quotas for different population groups. In fact, Norwegian language, identity and culture are to a very small extent assumed to be strengthened. The party of progress enters the point but will distance itself from the ‘politically correct’ twist made in the supplementary descriptions of the Government. The NRC must not be used to promote them at all times politically correct attitudes or to promote what I would call ‘the excellence’ of a multicultural society. It has to be concluded that the NRK is going to bring society into line with the politically correct view of the red-green government. The Party of Advances, Right, Christian People's Party and Left are united for an alternative to Pillar 3 point i. In the case of Pillar 4, ‘Strengthening high quality, diversity and innovation’, the Progress Party believes that when the Government proposes such arrows, it tastes of elitism and a strong top-down attitude to people most. Such an attitude should have been passede decades ago. What's high quality for one doesn't have to be high quality for another at all. For this reason, provision should be made for the NRK to offer a variety of offers in line with the wishes of viewers, listeners and, where appropriate, web readers, whether economic news, jazz, consumer programmes or Norwegian peaks. In the case of Pillar 5 on NRK as non-commercial public broadcasting, it is well known that the Progress Party considers that in a modern society it is difficult to see the need for public involvement in media activities. Therefore, the public should sell out of the media to NRK. This may, for example: is done by splitting the NRK into several limited liability companies and selling the business to private stakeholders. With that, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e490	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e493	The NRK plaque shall, on a general level, express the expectations and requirements of the community to the NRK. Technological developments in recent years have brought about major changes in the media field. These developments have triggered major market changes in the broadcasting sector. In view of this, there has been a need for a thorough review of NRK’s public broadcasting obligations. It is the first time that the NRK’s public broadcasting role has been the subject of such a wide public consultation, and this message must be seen in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 Broadcasting in a digital future. It is nice to record that most hearing bodies are positive for the purpose of the poster. The poster is intended as a policy governance instrument and as a starting point for future discussions at political level on the requirements to be set for the NRC public broadcasting service. The majority of the Committee considers that the public funding of the NRC and the state ownership imply that the State which owns a legitimate basis for shaping an overall mission for the NRK’s activities. But it is important to stress that we assume that the NRK should initially be a stand-alone institution with editorial freedom based on the traditions of Norwegian media working after. The posters are constructed around five important pillars: The NRK must support and strengthen democracy. The NRK shall be publicly available. The NRK shall strengthen Norwegian language, identity and culture. The NRC shall strive for high quality, diversity and innovation. And not least: NRK’s public broadcasting service shall be non-commercial. On the SV side, I would like to stress the important role of the NRK in supporting and strengthening democracy by contributing to the promotion of public dialogue and helping to provide the whole population with sufficient information to be active in democratic processes. The NRK shall therefore be editorially independent and protect its integrity and credibility. It is absolutely necessary to be able to act freely and independently in relation to persons or groups who, for political, ideological, economic or other reasons, will exercise influence on the editorial content. Activities shall be characterised by high ethical standards and shall be balanced over time. The NRK shall also be available to the entire population. It is therefore very important to take account of disabled people, including: by means of subtitles of television programmes. Strengthening Norwegian and Sami languages and culture is an important task, and the NRC shall also disseminate knowledge and reflect the diversity of the Norwegian community. The NRC will create an arena for debate and information on Norway as a multicultural society. The NRK offer shall also include both official target forms and at least 25 pst. the contents shall be in neo-Norwegian. Finally, I would like to stress that the NRK should be a contributor to education and learning and appeal to all age groups. I would particularly like to highlight the important group of children and young people, and they will be offered the quality and diversity of programmes adapted to them - quality and innovation, news and culture for both narrow and broad groups. The NRK’s public broadcasting offer shall be non-commercial and free of advertising and shall not contain any specific promotional reference to the group’s commercial services and products. It is also very important for SV to stress that the websites with children as a target group should be free of advertising.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e529	The media is a major influence on our culture and cultural development, and public broadcasting is a central tool in Norwegian cultural and media policy. As a public-owned public broadcaster, the NRK has a special responsibility to provide good services. Therefore, it is important that the state expresses expectations for the NRK’s societal mission. The degree of detail must be balanced against the NRK's legitimate demands for editorial freedom and the leadership must be superior. After the Christian People's Party's opinion, the NRK poster is a good traveler who can explain what kind of expectations the public has for the NRK. The poster itself is not a legal document, and formal management of the NRK will still take place through law and ownership. The poster does not replace the statutes we have today, but collects and harmonises the governance documents for the NRK. In connection with this, I would like to refer to the Christian People's Party's comments and suggestions when it applies to the NRK in the Inn. S. No 24 for 2006-2007, cf. St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 Broadcasting in a digital future. The proposal for a NRK poster states that ‘the NRK shall reflect Norway’s religious heritage and the diversity of life views and religions in Norwegian society’. I ask myself, what does a real thing mean by "Norway's religious heritage"? Is the government so anxious to take the words "Christian values" in its mouth that a man cleanses away everything that has to do with our Christian cultural heritage? In fact, our society is built on a centuries-long Christian and humanistic tradition. The Christian People's Party therefore, in teams with the Advancement Party, Right and Left, proposes to change the term "Norway's Religious Heritage" in its NRK poster 3 (i) to "Norway's Christian and Humanist Cultural Heritage". The subject matter of'religions' has fallen out of the comments and the proposal in the vote. There is therefore a corrected proposal distributed in the Chamber, which reads: ‘pilar 3 point i: the NRK shall reflect Norway’s Christian and humanistic cultural heritage and the diversity of life views and religions in the Norwegian society’. It's not about imposing the NRK on a Christian purpose paragraph, but we're taking with us the different elements, which are actually very important, and specifying them, and signaling with it that we're still going to have this with Norway's Christian and humanist cultural heritage. I hope that the government party can support the corrected proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber today. Christian People's Party still wants a strong NRK. The NRK has a special responsibility to provide the Norwegian people with a wide range of news, current information and cultural material. As licence-funded broadcasters, the NRK has a special responsibility to offer programmes in Norwegian and based on Norwegian culture and tradition. I would particularly like to highlight NRK's district missions, which also have an important language policy role in society. Children and young people spend a lot of time using the media. Their TV offer is enhanced by the expansion of commercial channels. Therefore, it is gratifying that the NRK has a major focus on children’s programmes, and it is good that the focus on children and young people is strengthened so that the NRK, with a significant element of self-production, can become a national alternative to commercial channels. I will go under the responsibility of the NRK to strengthen the Norwegian language and to use both official target forms. It is particularly important that children are given both objectives on the right, including in programmes aimed at children and young people. Today, there is too little novelty in NRK children’s and youth programmes. Efforts to make programmes targeted at children and young people more innovative will need to be made. The NRK poster does not respond well enough to this challenge, and I point out that the Christian People's Party called for a larger neural node, among others. in applications aimed at children, when broadcasting messages were processed. There has to be a clear distinction between publicly funded services and commercial product and services in the NRC. I'm glad that the NRK's statutes are changed so that one has to show special vigilance to content that exposes children to commercial pressure. It is a general trend that advertising and editorial substances are increasingly mixed into different media through e.g. product position and spin-off product. This is where the NRK must be on guard. The NRK shall not be an instrument in the Government's game policy. It shall not be a public broadcaster's role to highlight government gambling. This problem we thought was more clear in the NRK poster. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e558	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e561	The NRK poster shall be a policy guidance document which shall be capable of being produced by the Storting as necessary and form the basis for political discussions on the requirements of the Storting to be addressed to the National Broadcaster. The size has determined that the NRK should be a state-owned licensed broadcaster. It's a pleasure for the Center Party. But then it's also important that the Storting has a relationship with why. What is the goal of Stortinget with the National Broadcaster? The basis for such a discussion must be that the NRK should not be detailed and that the NRK should have editorial freedom. The NRK poster is made up of five arrows. They're all important. They are not to be ranked, but they can be ranked in the order they are listed. The overriding important principle lies in the first point. The NRC must support and strengthen democracy. At this point, with its five subpoints, lies the heart of the whole order: meeting democratic, social and cultural needs in society, promoting public conversation, discovering critical relationships, helping to protect individuals and groups from abuse and last but not least, being editorialally independent. The next pillar is also important, as a good number two: the NRK should be available to the entire population. This is an important principle as long as we are to have a state-owned licence-funded national programme. It's important that one reaches out to the whole country, the same everywhere people live. But it is also important that disabled people's needs are taken care of in terms of texting and sign language. The centre party is pleased that the Storting is willing to be so concrete in connection with the cultural order. One is responsible for national programming in relation to Norwegian language, identity and culture, while one demands that the supply reflect the diversity of modern Norwegian society, multicultural. The poster states that the NRK should be present locally and have local facilities. It is important to maintain legitimacy throughout the country. At least 25 pst. the contents shall be in neo-Norwegian and, in addition, the Size Orders a fine width in the art and cultural media. It is further stipulated that the NRK will pass on the Norwegian religious heritage, but also the lack of views of life and religions in the Norwegian community. There is no doubt about what is the Norwegian religious heritage, and we feel that the Christian People's Party's proposal is well taken care of at this point that is incorporated into the NRK poster. It is important for the Center Party that NRK remain non-commercial, and the Centre Party fully supports the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e580	There is broad agreement on most, and it is largely just the Progress Party that is a little bit on the side of the debate. But there has been a broad consensus that we need a NRK poster, and that a NRK poster is a fine way to regulate the relationship between the ever-increasing desire of political authorities to control the NRK and the need of NRK to develop NRK -- sail if it's weird that there's such a broad consensus here in the hall today that you need a NRK poster, seen in the light of the events of the last question hours, and has it in mind. But that's something we think it's important to underline from the left hand side. Developing the public broadcasting concept in a modern media everyday is a rather challenging role. There are, however, some concepts that I think it is important to keep high. One of them is constantly striving for objectivity. I think it's strange that the remark about striving for objectivity only has the support of the Right and the Left. Having a channel that has as its starting point that it should not prejudice a political vision, which has as its starting point that it should provide objective and good information in relation to what you do, is actually quite important in today's media everyday, where we see people surfing in the media based on their own perception and on their own desire to only confirm their already occupied political position. Therefore, the public broadcaster has a different role today. That's to challenge our positions and provide us with information that we might not have sought, but that we have good at getting, and we have someone who strives for objectivity. The representative Knudsen may be right that it's not always possible. It is difficult to face war situations, for example, and have a fully objective report from there when you feel this strongly and intensely. But the pursuit of objectivity and at all events the threat of being exposed to discussion related to objectivity are important for a public broadcaster. I am sure that the Progress Party will at least contribute to a discussion on whether objectivity exists, and I think it is strange that the Progress Party will not help to stress that objectivity should be sought. The second point that I think is important to address is the mainstreaming of a public broadcaster. If there's a word that I really wanted to include in the NRK poster, it's the word "forming", sail if it's under many of the government's proposals. In general terms, it is both cultural and artistic, and it is about language and tradition. I agree with most of the comments of the Christian People's Party that the NRK has an important role as a language publisher, that one has an important tradition in developing our language, and that we are a nation where there is a great use of dialects, something the NRK should have a great deal of credit for. So they're a mainstream public broadcaster, and it's a big challenge in a time when we're shopping media in a completely different way from what we've done in the past. Finally, I would like to make a small comment on what the representative Johnsen called a «Christian Purpose Paragraph». We in the Left are opposed to having a purpose paragraph attached to one religion, but calling our proposal a ‘purpose paragraph’ is a pretty funny explanation. What struck me when I read the Government's proposal was that you almost have a fear of taking the word "Christian" in your mouth, that you try everything you can to avoid mentioning a religion by name, and that you try to get away from the fact that we actually have a Christian tradition here in the country. I think it is strange that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party, with their traditions, seem that it is okay, sail if I realize that SV is comfortable with it. I believe that we have found a formulation that is very coherent, where we dare to put words on the tradition we have in this country, and the story we have as a nation. That's why the Left, who has no strong tradition of being for purpose paragraphs related to particular religions, has supported this proposal, because we think it's actually more inclusive than what the Government's proposal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e592	The President would like to ask if the representative would like to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e595	I'm addressing proposal No. 9 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e600	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e603	The NRK has a strong position in Norwegian society, and it is true that there are few public broadcasters in the world who have a similar solid position in the population as the NRK has in Norway. There is a great deal of commitment about NRK's programmes - it has earlier debates in this room quite recently shown - but it is also a great confidence in the NRK. The NRK is a strong name that it is important to take care of. The Community's requirements for the NRC may today appear to be inconclusive, because they are spread in different governance documents, statutes, miscellaneous credit notifications, budget proposals, Document No. Eight proposals, etc. Therefore, there is a need for a single document expressing the Community's expectations and requirements for the NRC. It is paradoxical that there have actually been clearer demands for TV 2 through concession than what we as the community and owners have made to the NRK. That is why last year we invited over 800 hearing bodies to a large group work on the design of the NRK poster. A draft poster was sent out at wide consultation. The hearing showed that there is broad support for the overall requirements for NRK’s general broadcasting services being grouped and collapsed in a NRK poster. The structure of the NRK poster with five arrows was also supported in the hearing. The aim of the NRK poster is precisely to bring together the requirements and expectations of the size and community to the NRK. This will make it easier for the NRK to follow them up and facilitate Stortinget’s monitoring of NRK’s relationship with the signals from Stortinget. Maybe it'll also make it easier for us to think about which things we're actually going to interfere with, and which we're going to safely leave to the NRK itself. Many have strong opinions about NRK's offer, and as licensee, many believe that they should have an impact on the nature of the NRK's programme profile. I think it is healthy with public debate on the NRK's programme profile, also down to the individual programme. But we as magnification and government, we as owners, must have a slightly different approach through such a general NRK poster. The NRC is Norway’s main cultural institution, and therefore an open debate on what the NRC should be and how the NRC carries out its mission is important. It is important to distinguish between debate at the overall level on the provision of NRC and debate on individual programmes in the NRC. As politicians, we should and should not have the opportunity to regulate the content of the NRC in detail. On the contrary, the principle of editorial freedom is one of the most important principles we have to protect freedom of expression and democratic values. That is precisely why we have proposed to legislate this principle. I think we can all agree that the political governance of the NRC and the NRK's societal mission should be based on a general and principleal approach. The tool we have is the NRK poster. We've focused on not making the poster too detailed. It shall first and foremost express the overall requirements of the establishment. Then it will be the government's task to make sure that the poster is presented to the Storting if necessary. The representatives themselves may take the initiative to modify and clarify the poster so that it is kept up to date in accordance with changes in the media image. I want, as the NRK General Assembly, to ensure that the statutes are harmonised in line with the NRK logo and reflect the requirements that lie there. In addition, the statutes of the NRK will include a more precise and perhaps more detailed design of a part of the requirements. The NRK poster will also mean that the statutes of the NRK cannot be changed only with a pen stroke. It gives NRK predictability. At the same time, it ensures that the overall principles of NRK’s activities are effectively enshrined in the Stortinget. In addition, the NRK poster allows the public to easily inform themselves about the requirements of the country’s main cultural institution. We will ensure that the NRK poster is made easily accessible so that the public has easy access to information about the NRK's societal tasks. I think it's a very strong force for the NRK, for the public broadcaster, for the anchoring of the NRK in the Norwegian community, that there's such a wide connection to the poster in the Stortinget, both to make such a poster and to the contents of it. Fortunately, there are very small differences in the setting of the majority of lots to which the poster should contain. One lot stands out by repeating its overall message to sell the NRK. I think that would have led to a much worse broadcasting offer for large parts of the Norwegian population, but it is a big and important debate. I'm glad that the committee joins the NRK poster as a starting point for future discussions on what we require of the NRK public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e636	I will not re-open the debate of the recent Norwegian Presidency in the hope of saving the Stortinge for the sovereign dictatorships of the Council of State. But I'm going to focus on this that the NRK advertises with: «Something for everyone. Always». To the extent that we complain about the NRK here at Stortinget, it is often from people aged 50, 60, 70 + who feel that their music tastes, their program profiles do not come out in the NRK. The representative Lode of the Central Party said that this poster should be a political guidance document that can be developed if necessary and that it is a cultural order for the NRK. Does the Council of State believe that the NRK delivers to that group in relation to the cultural order? And can there be a need in this context for the poster to be presented as a political governance document?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e645	It's NRK itself that has to follow up the points that are in the NRK poster, for example. point No 3 f and g to at least 35 pst. of the music being played shall be Norwegian, and Norwegian culture and a wide variety of Norwegian artistic expressions shall be communicated. At least I'm convinced that having a public broadcaster that is licensed is the best way to ensure exactly the age groups 50, 60, 70 + a good deal, because the commercial players are targeting those they consider to be the most attractive to the advertising market, and it's people from 15 to 35 to 40. As a result, the programme profile is set up accordingly, and the older people lose their programme offer. So calling about NRK, not selling NRK, not privatizing it, is the best way to do this. Then we certainly need a lively debate. We will probably also get larger niche products. The NRK has launched its own channel, NRK Gull, which sends old classics to the joy of many older listeners. I think this is an important part of NRK's offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e654	I would like to ask the Council of State whether he would be in favour of the proposal of the partitioned opposition party that «the NRC should reflect Norway's Christian and humanist cultural heritage and the diversity of life views and religions in Norwegian society». If it were our purpose to impose a Christian purpose paragraph on the NRK, we would have formulated it in a completely different way. But we're making this proposal because it's important to use the words "Christian and humanistic heritage of Norway", because the words "religious heritage of Norway", as it says in the NRK poster, are much more diffuse in terms of what a real meaning means. So I hope that the Council of State, with closer reflection and having studied this, will be able to give a signal that the Government will be supporting it. I hope for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e661	I think the disagreement that's in the committee here might testify that you've taken a little too little time to discuss this and come to an agreement, because I don't think the difference is so big, fortunately. When we suggested this point, 3 in, it was because it's really about the religious dissemination to the NRK. In my view, it should be a point that gave the NRK a platform for, for example. continue to be able to send services, religious programmes, etc. There's been a discussion about it, and this point I mean gives it the platform. Whenever I am more skeptical about the opposition's proposals, it is not primarily about the use of the word «Christians», but more about changing the word «heredit» to «heritage», for this point is primarily about religion. It's about the religious programs. It's an arena for religious discussion, as the NRK should also be, and religious communication. I don't see the disagreement as very big, and I haven't had anything against the word «Christians» coming in here. But I think the wording of the opposition actually makes the point more unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e670	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e687	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes per party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e696	The decision that some institutions in cultural life should be able to obtain node status came for the first time in connection with St.meld. No 61 for 1991-1992 Culture in time. St.meld. No 10 for 2007-2008 on criteria and assessment of the node mission that we are dealing with today, underlines and reinforces the nodes as motors in cultural life. The Storing Message brings up some main objectives for institutions with such status. Node institutions shall focus on elements such as audience development, artistic quality and peculiarity development, and resource exploitation. Also, year-on-year continuity of festival activity, local/regional anchoring, and a broader geographical impact field national and international is important. A new element is that the node task should be long-term, but that the status is proposed to be evaluated every four years. Like the Department, I would like to underline the importance of the growing node festivals in the message on the basis of a strong local and regional initiative. Such anchoring is a prerequisite for ensuring the geographical distribution of the nodes, recruiting volunteers for the festival work and cooperating with business and society elsewhere. For the vast majority of nodes, localisation will focus on anchoring to one specific location or community. However, in some cases festivals may alternate between a number of sites. This does not prevent the obligation of connecting points, if emphasis is placed on building voluntary staff in the places concerned, or ensuring cooperation with community or regional actors in social, cultural and business life. Such practice requires that regional funding is ensured by the local communities or regions hosting the festival. The Storting Message stresses that artistic quality requirements must be attached to the nodes, while avoiding the need to assess quality on the basis of a hierarchical model, where some are always at the top. The perception of what is artistically leading will have to mean that quality is seen in a holistic perspective, where the ability of nodes to create and develop, to bet on distinctiveness and peculiarity and on the ability of professionalisation at all stages is included in the assessment. It is important to stress that the quality concept must initially be separated from whether an institution is defined as local, regional or national. The most distinctive local expressions can often be of high artistic quality and are of interest to both a national and an international audience. The message states that innovation and development must be important obligations for the nodes. The concept of ‘innovative’ has been interpreted by the opposition as opposed to having a programme, for example: traditional culture. In my opinion, this is a slightly sought objection. A term such as ‘innovative’ for a node may include both programming, dissemination strategies and technical/practical closure. And then it's e.g. so that traditional traditional substances can also be renewed through the personal intervention of the performer through its conduct practices, and through the way, for example. a festival conveys this culture. In St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007 Regional advantages - the regional future is referred to as appropriate practices for the appointment of members of the board of cultural institutions. The Regional Communication advocates that state appointments - which have so far been made to directors of goods and one member of the board of hub institutions - may be replaced by regional nominations as part of the decentralisation of decisions in the field of culture. The number of members of a board shall not be determined. It's, in my opinion, a reasonable way to fix this. I note that the opposition, and in particular the Right, believe that both state and regionally appointed members of the Governing Board are ulterior, because these may lead to premature leadership in the artistic conditions of a cultural institution. I don't think it's that far from the experience. I've been running a node institution for five years and I've been working a lot on festival work. I have simply never experienced or heard any other claim that publicly appointed board members have interfered in the artistic leadership's dispositions. A well-functioning board shall ensure that the activities are conducted in accordance with the conditions for grants and with the overall plans available to the institution. I trust that the competent and professional board will be able to do so, even if they have publicly appointed board members. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Culture and the Church has given focal points status to festivals that preserve a wide range of artistic diversity, and that the importance of such institutions being found throughout the country is underlined. The Node Point message shows that this bet is an important part of the Government's great cultural leap.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e715	It is good to have a review of the criteria for node status - especially since sometimes the Stortinget proposes which institutions are to be node institutions. Just over the last two and a half years, this has not been the case since the majority government took over. Nevertheless, it may be interesting to see which criteria are used. It is important that focal points institutions, which should be lighthouses both nationally, regionally and locally, have a predictable framework and criteria to deal with. The Contracting Party has taken note of the criteria on which the Government applies: anchoring to the place festival activity each year's leading coordinating national and international orientation innovative resource utilisation regional participation We agree with several of these points, but not all. Some of these criteria exclude some of those that might be suitable as node institutions, for example: city: Alarm, which moves from place to place and which is a very successful festival. Some have festival activity every second year, or even every third year, and are therefore excluded from these criteria. Several focal points institutions may well discuss whether they have good use of resources. So, if you were to follow these criteria that are referred to here as the dot and the dot, I'm afraid we'd lose some of the node institutions we have, pretty fast. The party with which the progress is satisfied is the quality requirements. We hope that when it comes to the notification that node institutions should be artistic leaders, it means that the notified evaluation and governance of the institutions will also ensure that the content of the various institutions is as expected. In my nearly seven years in the Culture Committee, I have visited a number of node institutions, and in the case of a few of them, I have been very disappointed with the content. Or, to put it like that, it's not always the festival that matches its title. But this, I think, is now addressed by the evaluation, and that it also sharpens festivals and focal points. Having said that, I would like to stress that I have probably also had some of my best festival experiences in a so-called relatively newly-appointed node institution, if we ignore the festivals I attended in the early 1970s. As far as the economy is concerned, the Progress Party is of the opinion that node institutions should also be given the opportunity to apply for project funding. Because if you don't, you also rule out the opportunities that node institutions have for projects in their different festival years. They may range from children’s and young people’s projects to some year or other that you would like to highlight, and that then blend naturally into the work of the focal point institution. It won't be right, as the Progress Party sees it, to exclude and exclude festivals from applying for project funding, even if they have a different funding initially. Of the 12 node institutions, seven have gained their status in the current period. All seven are geographically located in the central eastern region. If the Council of State plans to set up new focal points -- and I'm just saying this as a call to the Council of State -- I'll advise him to lift his eyes and look beyond the whole country. With regard to the public appointment of directors in the focal points institutions, the Progress Party, like the rest of the opposition, does not want to support the proposal promoted by the Council of State. It's not going to be an arm's length distance. Nothing becomes free and independent when the government or government appoints members of the board of directors of institutions. We heard the case rapporteur say that she had good experience with state-appointed board members, and that they did not interfere in the artistic design of the various festivals, but I think this is entirely dependent on the individual member appointed by those boards. With this, I would like to address the proposals where the Progress Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e768	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e771	In relation to festivals, the node concept has had little concrete content in addition to the fact that there has been a financing key that has been located between the state, the state and the municipality. As node status often refers to additional public contributions in addition to the grant schemes available for festivals in general, it is reasonable to also formulate some expectations of the nature of node status. In general, I think the department has done a good job in this work, and the criteria described are probably much in line with what is being worked after in the festivals today. I think few festivals will experience these criteria as some major change in relation to what you naturally report today. However, in the transition to a broader set of criteria, the Right believes that it must be important to provide good room for discretion in relation to potential candidates in the future. It is not good to know in advance what festivals you might be talking about. We have therefore proposed a few minor corrections to the criteria for location anchoring, and also that the festival should actually be held as an event every year. Even in the 60-40 distribution, which is the one that is well incorporated, we believe that it is necessary to be able to see these things as a whole in order to possibly open up festivals that may have an important national professional significance within a genre, for example, without necessarily hitting the nail in the middle of the head on absolutely all criteria. We have also noticed that the Government will also impose restrictions on node festivals in relation to the fact that enterprises with fixed State aid will not be able to obtain funds through the cultural council's arrangements. I expect that it was also the representative Woldseth in his post. The right considers that this is not an appropriate restriction, but would, if the Government is now committed to implementing it, believe that it must at least be important to lubricate the system with significant adjustments to the flat rate subsidies, if this is to be addressed. Nor can the right see the need for the public, it is the state, which today, or the county municipality, to appoint government representatives for the festivals in the future, as the Government has announced. The State has, through its great financial influence, its letters of allocation and its reporting procedures, as a result of the public funds, adequately met its control needs. The intention to keep a distance between the country and a free cultural life suggests that the state should not be allowed to participate in the festivals by appointing members of the board of directors. To the right, this is an ideologically important point. The question of the extent to which directors influence the artistic choices is likely to be slightly different. But we would point out that small institutions, with only one employee or perhaps just a few, will reasonably discuss with their directors strategies that also contain artistic priorities and artistic plans over time. It becomes artificial to say that there is in some way a fixed shot between the artistic activity and what the board will reasonably work with. In the Right's view, the festivals themselves are best protected to find the entire cabal for the governance they think is appropriate for themselves. It is about a broad range of competences and how these competences are put together. It is also a question of providing good space for those initiators and organisations that have often been behind the festivals. It is therefore appropriate to provide for festivals to adapt their statutes in such a way as to provide the functions necessary for the appointment of a Governing Board. For most people, this is about minor changes, as the statutes have usually had this as a starting point. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen raised the question of the term ‘innovative’. I am pleased with the precision that she put in in her post when it came to it. The reason why we have problematised this concept is that we have, for example: in the context of Norwegian cultural councils, it also provides content on the basis of the artistic choices to be made. It's important to stress that this is not the case here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e794	The purpose of the Storing Message Knutepoint is to renew the concept of ‘knotpoint’ and a broader set of criteria. The Knute Point concept was defined in the Culture Storing Communication of the time, which was presented in 1992. At the time, the node institutions were intended to play an important role in both national, regional and local cultural life, by focusing on self-production, dissemination and networking. A report on the content of the node mission, presented by the Ministry of Culture in 1995, pointed out that important criteria for the nodes in the future, among others. should focus on better dissemination, a stronger focus on children and young people, a broader geographical impact field, a strengthening of staff competence and emphasising networking. These factors are still at work, but a lot has happened in cultural life since then. At present, there is wide variation between the various focal points institutions, both in terms of width, artistic profile acquisition, scope and activities. This is a variation that is desirable to be maintained even in the future. In St.meld. No 10 the performance requirements on which the government grant to the node institutions is to be based are set out. Node institutions would agree that they have been given tasks in addition to their ordinary artistic activities and beyond their local anchoring. The arrangements for the assignment and its scope will vary, depending on the profile of each node institution. Node institutions shall be responsible for coordinating and cooperating with other festivals or party games. This will strengthen and legitimise the focal point institution in their region and contribute to positive cultural growth and skills building. It is important, in our view, that being innovative and development-oriented is a crucial commitment for the focal point institutions. Those concepts may include both programming, dissemination strategies and technical and practical closure. SV agrees that regional/local participation in funding is important, with a view to strengthening local ownership of focal points institutions. At the same time, it is important to stress that many focal points institutions, irrespective of location, are widely recognised at national and international level, both in terms of programme content and public impact. This does not conflict, however, with the fact that the focal points institutions have funding in which the State, region and municipality participate. As highlighted in the message, it is important and absolutely necessary to regularly evaluate the individual focal point institution in the future. It must be obvious that this evaluation will identify good and appropriate evaluation methods, which will respect the principle of arm's length and which will be based on the objectives of the focal point institution itself. It is also necessary to provide for a broad evaluation involving several parties, including the institutions themselves and the regional grant partners. SV is very pleased that the message proposes such an evaluation every four years. In our opinion, it's not necessarily so that 'once a node is always equal to a node'. The innovation requirement, contained in the criteria, combined with the possibility of evaluation, will be important and necessary to ensure the regular renewal of node institutions over time. SV is also pleased that the Department is now submitting a communication on the focal points institutions and agrees with the main conclusions and objectives drawn in the message. We believe that node institutions are important as hubs and engines in regional and national cultural life. We are of the opinion that the connecting points with their geographical distribution and artistic diversity are of great importance to cultural life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e820	Festivals have a very central role in Norwegian cultural life and are very important in ensuring growth and development within the different genres. Focus on ordering plants, various self-productions, festival composers and the development of new forms of presentation and dissemination are involved in doing so. The quality is consistently high and programming international, but adapts the individual festival's profile and local anchoring. The festival field in Norway is very dynamic. There is a wide variety of genres, form, organization and content. Today, when we are discussing the criteria for the node assignment, this must be done with respect for the different institutions' peculiarities. We have to take care of the shortage and the commitment that grows from below. The Christian People's Party wants a free cultural life that can evolve on its own terms. It doesn't mean that a non-entity setting is required for the node task. Just because the nodes are given a special social responsibility, the state has a legitimate right to enter into commitments with them. It's good with a review and a clarification of node criteria. The Christian People's Party, in all matters, boasts the Government's proposal for the criterion of and the Government's assessment of the node mission. However, some points should be commented on separately. For even if institutions are free not to search node status, it is important for those to whom the assignment is given that government requirements can be combined with the institution's own identity and development in a good way. That is why the Christian People's Party is critical of the public appointment of board members. The enterprise should develop on a self-contained basis within the scope of the assignment. At a superior level, the state should express expectations of the node through the given direction lines. Through reporting, monitoring and evaluation, the institution may demonstrate the degree of achievement of the objective. Elections of members of the Governing Board should be their own responsibility. The point must be that a meeting the cultural policy expectations of the mission does not mean that the state will intervene directly in the governance process. You need to trust the institutions here. The election of a non-governmental board of directors may, however, act as a catalyst and as a developer of the institution. The expression "innovative" is a relative expression, not least within cultural life. I agree that being innovative and developing must be an important obligation for the nodes. But we have to be careful not to get so one-sidedly focused on the expressions that we exclude expressions that are based on tradition and classical material. Some artistic expression will have elements of innovation and development in some form. The self-presentation of art is an innovation when the expression happens to new recipients. Often new presentation of classical material, not least within music, will challenge established performance practices. Here, focal points institutions have an important task both in renewing and in taking care of cultural expressions. Festivals are important administrators of cultural heritage by challenging new expressions, but also by making classical material and traditional material available to a wide audience. The government suggests that festivals that receive state support should not be able to accept support from the Norwegian Cultural Council. I mean, it might seem unfortunate. In its programme work, the festival often depends on solutions involving several sources of funding. Here, Norwegian Cultural Councils can be one of several public contributors. When the loss of this possibility of additional funding is not compensated for by an increase in the funding level of the institutions, I think the node festivals must be free to search for other public funding schemes. It may be decisive to realize a good project there is no room for within the ordinary operating budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e835	I remember a debate a few years ago. Then people thought that now there were no more festivals, because people didn't have time to go to so many festivals. After that it's really exploded in terms of the number of festivals. It's actually a pretty interesting phenomenon. Because it's a new form of volunteering, and it's a new kind of working with different art and cultural expressions that I think fit modern people better than other ways of working. Actually, there's a broad consensus relating to most of the things. It is considered that this is a type of financing model based on some criteria. The left's view is that the node really is linked to the Centre of Excellence, as in research -- that you have some engines, that you have some that's actually best, that you have something that you can stretch to, and that you have some that's good at art or other cultural expressions, that can teach people how to work. That's why the node status is supposed to be something you have to stretch for. But it's not just a funding model, it's actually a stamp we put to show that these are the best at this art expression. As I said, it's a very big consensus on the vast majority of things, but I want to raise two points that there's a disagreement about. One is what most people have commented on here: government representation. It's actually a little bit old-fashioned kind of thinking about control. In all other parts of society, we have realized that control is not best exercised by having elected representatives in all the boardrooms, but that you actually have good control procedures in other ways. To me, the idea of exercising control on behalf of the great community by putting in government representatives to represent the public is a rather old-fashioned form of control, which we have gone from in all the other social arenas. The rapporteur said that she had only positive experiences. It is because she has been lucky with the board representatives, but also because the institutions are being held responsible as a co-funder, by providing board representatives, who in fact make the control needs of the institutions difficult. And with regard to the festival the case rapporteur mentioned, it's not in line with what I've been given is the position of Norwegian festivals, where one was quite unison about not wanting such a form of government representation, but making other good control procedures for the public and their participation. The most important thing is that you might want the competence that people elected to understand the wrongs of public support and build an opinion around you. But it's a different approach to that. The second point that we in the left have also been concerned about is with other sources of funding. For me, the idea of this being the highest is a little bit broken, and the highest must be allowed to stretch towards other types of funding. That doesn't mean you're going to get it, but you're going to be allowed to go after it. I am of the opinion that everyone in all areas of society should be allowed to stretch to get better. Everyone should be allowed to stretch, also to get more support from others - if you are the best to get that support. Then there is the principle to be based on, and not the principle that you say no to some sources of funding because you've earned others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e850	Every year, the new festivals, spells and boards are established in Norway. Many of these are a cultural promise for the community and create a great deal of local commitment. They also contribute to positive ring-effects outside the pure cultural sphere, such as increased business turnover, full hotels, good times for trading and life and touching where the festival takes place. Over the years, twelve such institutions have become focal points institutions. Node status has been followed by rights, financial resources and some obligations. However, it was now time to have a debate around criteria to become a focal point institution and a review of the obligations and rights of such a status. Therefore we design St.meld. No 10, Node Point. It's a small but important part of the government's cultural promise. The message sets out clear expectations for enterprises with node status. The performance requirements underlying the grant are also clarified. The nodes will agree that they have been given tasks in addition to their ordinary artistic activities and their local anchoring. The arrangement of the assignment may vary depending on the profile of the node and the amount of funds involved. There is wide variation between node institutions, both in width and in artistic profile devices, in scope and activity. Such variations must also exist in the future, but some common criteria must nevertheless be used to assess and - not least - periodically evaluate the nodal point. There will be nine such criteria: location anchoring festival activity every year artistic leading coordination and cooperation national and international orientation innovative and development-oriented public development good resource use regional participation The Ministry will base its own annual reports on the evaluations, which should be carried out every four years, but will also be open to use external forces in such an evaluation. We expect that such an evaluation will provide us with knowledge and deepen the understanding of the artistic results of the nodes. There will be dialogue between the Ministry and the regional and local grant parties on the results of the evaluation. Such an evaluation may result in others getting the node status that someone else has had. We thus get a dynamic into the node system and also give new festivals the opportunity to be evaluated. The Node Point System has given festivals of particularly high quality an economic predictability. The current funding system will be continued with a division of the government grant to nodes of 60 pst. on the state and 40 pst. on regional grant parties in South Norway and on a 70/30 split for nodes in North Norway. The notification does not address the activities to be assigned node status in the future or the financial contribution related to such assignment. However, it should be pointed out that inflation should not occur in node assignments. New connecting points shall have a specific justification, either in the form of national genre responsibility or in the form of regional broad responsibility. Festival support under the Norwegian Cultural Council is and will be the main subsidy scheme for most music festivals, and the scheme has been significantly expanded after the government change. For 2008, approx. 80 festivals received grants from the scheme. I am pleased that the Committee is broadly behind the main conclusions of the Communication, that we are now getting a comprehensive focal point policy, and that we also agree with a regular evaluation. There are some-- I don't know if I'm going to call it the points of disagreement, but at least some divergent remarks. One goes on this with regular festival activity. It doesn't mean, in my view, that it has to be organized every year, but it has to be a regular festival activity - the word is chosen carefully. The representative Woldseth said that the new nodes have recently been very geographically concentrated in the Eastern region. I think that those who live in Hedmark or Uppland will not count the Festival games in Elverum or Peer Gynt as very Oslo-localized, and the Notodden Blues Festival is also not a festival that you can say is at the heart of the capital. It's true that Mela and the Øya Festival are in the capital, but I think that even in the East, geographical diversity must be possible, and there are important communities and large voluntary resources that are also deployed in these festivals - in addition to that it will mean a lot to the artistic product. Finally, I have to say that I am a little disappointed that the opposition is not with us at the thought that those who get large, direct, state, free resources, should not at the same time use their large administrations and resources to seek all the arrangements that all the little ones use. It leads to more bureaucracy, more money for administration and less money for the small, free groups that are struggling. I believe that we should agree on this - it is good for Norwegian cultural life - and we would rather add to the solid support, if that is the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e908	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e912	First, I have to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. I didn't say Oslo-orientated, I said 'the central eastern region'. Meg well - known lies both the Notodden, the Elverum and, to some extent, the Lillehammer - or Uppland - in the central eastern region. I thought more about the South, the West and North Norway. To the question, we've talked about arm length distances on several occasions. I could be very tempted to ask the Council of State whether he thinks - when one has both evaluation and reporting from the various focal points institutions - that it is necessary to appoint government directors in the various institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e919	I also heard that it was claimed by the NRK that the notification meant a stronger management of the node institutions. It's the opposite. The rule from the 1990s, under changing governments, has been the appointment of the Chairman of the Board and at least two members of the Board of Governors of the Node Institutions. Now we're saying that the government doesn't have to appoint the board of directors, it can be done locally. We also say that we need fewer government members, but perhaps also government members. We're going in the opposite direction of what's being said. However, when we think it makes sense for some members of the government, it's not because the government has to control the artistic content of the institution, but because we think it gives quality to what's involved in economics, accounting, administration, law, etc. It provides quality input to governments, which is important for a government in an institution receiving large public funds. But artistic freedom lies with the artistic leadership of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e926	I would like to follow up the question that Karin S. Woldseth was asking: what is the need? What is the public need to appoint members of the board in connection with the festivals? In response to Woldseth, the Council of State said that it was legal and economic control. These are professional institutions that have audits, which have extensive reporting, where there is a whole system that affects what is public contributions, and which should, of course, be there. When it comes to finding a cabal for how to put together a government, this is one of the skills you need. But isn't it better to have a uniform grip on how a government is put together? And: Wouldn't the festival itself be a better starting point? What is the need of the State or the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e933	This is mentioned in the big message on page 29, where we write that it is important that nodes have competent and well-functioning governance, that they are demanding to be put together, and that we should have it as a goal when we contribute. It also states that we do not consider the appointment of a board of directors as a management tool, but as a contribution to ensuring that the nodes are given competent boards to ensure that the management of the business complies with laws and rules, and that the nodes comply with the assumptions set for the institution. I believe this interaction between some publicly appointed – and much stronger locally appointed – board members and board members from another team gives the institutions the strength and quality needed. Then the artistic freedom and artistic management are in place. But the most important thing is that the millions of cultural vows contribute to these institutions getting a much greater freedom of action in the activity itself, many more festivals get support through festival support, more have become nodes, and the node status will give communities a tremendous boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e942	Then I would like to ask the Council of State a question related to this with the possibility of applying for the Norwegian Cultural Council. This applies in particular to more node institutions than exactly those we are talking about today, because this has been promoted in several contexts - that there should be a restriction on who should be able to apply there. The starting point for many of these is that the allocations are very different in size. When they entered the fixed position in the budget, no one thought of that limitation. It's a premise change signalled by the Council of State. I disagree with that premise change because I think this is about giving room in an entrepreneurship that it's important to get. But okay, if you want to implement this premise change - and you have a majority to do that - isn't it necessary to really go in and adjust the amounts that some of these get? We're talking about festivals that might get $1 million or less.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e949	I don't think it's one of the nodes that hasn't got a big, or a formidable, increase through the cultural promise. For example, the Bergen party games were awarded. in 2008 a sharp increase. The Notodden Blues Festival, Peer Gynt-Stiffet, Øyafestivalen and Melafestivalen have become a hub now. It's in itself a formidable increase - far beyond what you've received from the Culture Council in the past. My idea is that those institutions which have direct State support, which have some significant resources and large administrations, should not at the same time have focused on all the other state aid schemes in place. They should have looked at the activity, preferably at private funds, funds, other actors -- but they should not eat from the same pots that all the little ones get their food from. This is the cleaning up of public bureaucracy, for which the Right should have cheered. Instead, they fight for these institutions to burden all the other schemes, with applications, reports, treatment, etc. We have to get the money out for activity and less for bureaucracy. That should be right-wing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e956	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e961	First, I would like to make a little comment on the Council of State's articles on bureaucracy and festivals. So we're talking about a couple of festivals, it's not about a big cleanup in bureaucracy compared to the theme, the possibility of applying. Some festivals have been increased, yes. Not everyone's got it. Norsk Literature Festival, for example, has received some increase, but we are still talking about an amount at the bottom of a festival that has a large volume, which obviously does not compensate for the opportunities offered in applying for the various grant schemes that the Culture Council has. So then I look forward to the government looking at it and at the other festivals that have a relatively poor funding basis compared to the next state budget. So it's a theme I want to address, and it's about evaluation. The Communication states that the Ministry will carry out the evaluation of this, possibly involving external competences. Wouldn't it be an idea to spend the entire evaluation? We have organs, for example. in the Norwegian Cultural Council, which makes assessments in relation to the usual festivals on the grant scheme. Arrangements could be found to actually lift the entire evaluation out of the department and thus strengthen the distance between the department and the festival, and strengthen the arm's length distance principle, on which the Council of State has been involved on so many occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e975	Finally, yes, absolutely, it may be reasonable to use external forces and professionally competent environments to make that evaluation. The most important thing is that it is done at regular intervals, and that others also get the chance to get the status that ever was given--and that no one is given that kind of means forever. But then we went to this red tape project. Now I think we're going to continue for the next four years, but if we're not going to get it, this should be something that a total accumulation actually joined. I don't understand why not the Right, who usually talks about reducing public bureaucracy, making it as effective as possible and getting the most out of the tax money, don't do it in the cultural field. It could be that the Right thinks that now there's so much money coming to cultural life through the Cultural Promise, that now there's no need to pay attention to spending the money as efficiently as possible. Well, it does. Just when we have so much money, we should also be extra aware of spending them well. We had an arrangement under the Cultural Council where we spent 1 million. kr in the year of the administration to purchase art for about 2 million. kr. We abolished it, we spent all the money on the 15 art institutions that got the money and bought the art for $3 million. kr. There is a sensible system in terms of cultural money. The same was true of a 7-8 million scheme called ‘extraordinary support for cultural historical museums’. kr. We abolished it, because we saw that it was the large, heavy institutions, the Norwegian People's Museum on Bygdøy and Maihaugen, which got most of the money -- or large shares of them -- even though they had many millions in fixed state aid. It is unnecessary to have that kind of extra bureaucracy in order to allocate state resources. Get the money out, face the audience, face the professional, against the research and against the dissemination, and not against the state support schemes. A jazz musician can apply for several toll schemes for the same project. There are people in Norway who get money paid to help others write applications to the Council of Culture and others. Then we're on wild roads. It cannot be the best applicants, the best bureaucrats and the best administrators who get the best cultural money, it must be the best artists and the best cultural projects. We have to agree on that project, because it's just when we can make the changes, which are pretty hard to do. I wish the Right thought about one more time. Although I agree that there is a tremendous amount of cultural money going to the cultural field now, we don't have to be late and backward - we have to be equally active and use them well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e988	Just a little bit about governance: I want to stress that what the message is about is to decentralize the appointment of controllers. From my point of view, it is natural that it is the great grant parties and the owners who appoint the governor. The message does not specifically define that there should be an entire board appointed by e.g. a county municipality. I think it's very wise, as the message suggests, that you should decentralize the appointment of directors in the focal points institutions. So to that where you can search. There are two things here: it says specifically in the message that you want to raise financially the nodes that have the lowest funding, that is, you give more money to the node institution itself. Festivals have very often collaborated with free artists. Free artists in all areas of art are free to apply, for example: Norwegian Cultural Councils on money for projects that they present in many places, perhaps also at a node festival. It is, of course, an arrangement that works for free artists, with whom festivals often cooperate. And then I want to underline what I said in my post, and as the representative Woldseth commented, most of the festivals are anchored to one place. A few festivals can be anchored in several places. What is important is to take care of the obligations and mission contained in the node definition, namely to ensure that there are many different ways of anchoring in a community or region.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e998	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1001	Governments can feel absolutely confident that the Right will help reduce bureaucracy, and we will help get the money where they are going, where culture is produced. But it's really not what this is all about. The relatively few institutions we are now talking about, represented by bureaucracy, are no heavy burden. Then we'd better get back to this when the onion committee comes with their deliberations. Then I expect that we will have a good starting point for an overall debate on what this is about. What's the matter now, is that part of the institutions that are under Item 74, and some of the festivals that we're now talking about, are being abandoned because the premise is changing. Then it's worth noting the representative Knutsen, who thinks it's okay that the main source of what's most important for creating a festival, namely being an entrepreneur in the field and putting together projects, disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1008	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1025	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1044	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. [[See page 2553]] - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1071	Taxes, and perhaps special charges, have always played a special role in the political debate in Norway. Although we have a tax system that, in my opinion, most people end up - it shows the welfare state's emergence over many decades - there is no doubt that some taxes create more debate than others. The inheritance fee is one such thing. Today, we are discussing the proposal of Jan Tore Sanner, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and Lars Sponheim on a conditional exemption from the inheritance tax on generational change in family-owned enterprises and proposals by Jan Tore Sanner and Lars Sponheim on a conditional exemption from the inheritance tax on inheritance of family property. First of all, the proposal on the conditional exemption from inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises: the intention behind the proposal is nothing to say. Proposalers want a better framework for family-run farms in Norway. But first let me underline a couple of things. It is good to be a business owner in Norway. Driving a store or running a business in Norway is good because we have a stable democracy, and we have access to good and highly educated labour. Yes, a good part of the highly educated workforce is also quite cheap compared to elsewhere in the world. In addition, both the current government and other governments have tried to pursue an economically responsible policy to keep price increases and interest rates under control. After all, these are all the most important framework conditions we can give to the Norwegian business community - including family-run businesses. With regard to the concrete proposal for a generation change in family-owned enterprises, the Government and the majority of the population have already done something concrete. In 2006, an interest-free deduction scheme was introduced over seven years for inheritance taxes on just generational changes in family-owned enterprises. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the event of an incursion, it appears in other sections of the majority remarks ‘deduction scheme’ rather than ‘deduction scheme’. So the right thing is "deduction order" so that we get it fixed. But while we want to take care of and develop our business, we have to have a different dimension. We are talking about taxes and taxes in Norway. They shall provide income to the Community and contribute to the redistribution in addition. The inheritance tax contributes to the community and has a redistributive effect by paying more than those who inherit less or nothing. I understand that it can create challenges for generational shifts in individual family-run businesses, and understand that it is desirable that the company should remain at the hands of the family. But we can't imagine that in these families and those companies, it's a lot of value. And in Norway, we believe that those who have more than others should contribute to the community. Similarly, we can argue with regard to the proposal for a conditional exemption from inheritance tax for the inheritance of family property. The reason for the inheritance tax - let me remind you about it - is the principle of taxation according to ability. No matter who inherits, one must be able to claim that inheriting a property -- a house or a cabin -- is a good thing. Not all inherit, and the hard facts are perhaps unfortunately those who have much, also inherit a lot. Nevertheless, there is a difference between inheriting, for example: a family cabin worth $500,000 and a family cabin worth $20 million. kr - to take some extremes. Here is one of my main objections to the proposal. The principle of taxes by capacity is not respected when property that ordinary people can afford is taxed in exactly the same way as cabins and houses in the tens of millions of classes. It is important in Norwegian society that different taxes and taxes, including the inheritance tax, have a high level of legitimacy. The inheritance fee has many weak sides, I think we should be so honest that we say. We have also said that in the past. Not least, the valuation of various so-called heirlooms is very different, and the rates are high. Therefore, the government has announced that it will provide a full review of the entire inheritance fee in connection with next year's budget. The whole picture of the inheritance fee will be reviewed. The majority in the committee therefore seem to be somewhat unnatural to go into detail on the inheritance tax issue before we have the full picture in place. But I would like to stress that the objectives of the majority of the population and the government with the review are not the review itself, as some minority comments suggest, and which are certainly being addressed here today. It is not the review itself that is the point, but the review is to ensure that we get a better and fairer system in terms of inheritance tax than the one we have today. Either way, our basic attitude is to put in place a system that contributes more to redistribution than today. Then we have to base the view that people who inherit great values have to contribute more to create room for lower or no inheritance tax for ordinary people in our country. In conclusion, it is taxes and charges in Norway that may have a higher legitimacy than the inheritance fee - we must be honest enough to say that. But at the same time, there's no big crowd, or the red-green parties, have come up with to plague people. If you read the reports from, among other things: The Skauge Committee or the Zimmer Committee, which has passed the inheritance fee, will be seen to have a professional finding that it has a redistributive effect. And no matter how you turn it around, you'll have to compensate for the loss of income to the community if you want the welfare state to exist over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1092	The representative, Mikalsen, has made Stortinget aware that there has been an incurrency error in the setting. - It's noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1097	Inheritance taxes on generation change in family-owned enterprises bottle up holdings for equity. This reduces the economic robustness of enterprises and reduces their ability to invest to secure jobs and the future income base. While the government collects inheritance tax from viable companies and weakens their ability to expand, the government spends SEK 4.5 billion on Innovation Norway, which has the task of providing financial support for new, innovative ideas that lack capital. Does the representative of Micaelsen have a paradox that every year, at the same time as the same country injects billions into dissolved business concepts through Innovation Norway, it collects billions of amounts from competitive and value-creating enterprises that provide jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1104	No, I don't see it's a big dilemma. In order to argue along those lines, taxes and levies should generally be abolished for enterprises that are viable in Norway. The payment of taxes and taxes contributes to the financing of the community on which our welfare state is based. I believe that there must be room to say that the companies that live today, which can contribute to the community, will contribute, at the same time as we focus on innovation, on growth in the Norwegian industry. It'll always be that some businesses go over the end, and someone comes to. It's the entire dynamics of Norwegian business. We've been good at that, and we're going to be good at that in the future - so I mean, no, it's not a big dilemma the representative is going to pull up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1111	The Political Spokesman of the Central Party, held in Stortinget on 19 December 2006, stated that: ‘Otherwise, it is quite obvious that facilitating the generational shift by changing the inheritance tax rules is absolutely central.’ Committee member Heikki Holmås from SV is everywhere in the public debate and proclaims that the inheritance fee is a very good distribution policy instrument and that it should be significantly increased. Which of these most agree with the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1123	The case rapporteur has his opinion on the matter, in the sense that I am clearly behind the Government when it has now announced that we are going to review the entire inheritance tax spectrum, the rates, the structure, the system and the deduction in the same way that we have solved the property tax. It has shown that it is fully possible to reconcile several considerations, namely that the Community should be provided with income, and that it should be redistributed in the form that those at the top that can contribute and pay more so that those with a low inheritance value in this context can receive a somewhat lower inheritance tax. It is also the intention when we start this review, and we will of course come back to Stortinget when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1128	I noticed that the case rapporteur thought that there was no inheritance fee for plaguing people, and that is probably a good comfort to many. The representative also said that we should have a review of the inheritance fee, and that is what we should be presented in the state budget for next year. My question is: is the point of the review to get a better distribution within the proceeds we have today - about - or does the review also have the intention to increase the proceeds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1137	The whole point when you warn about a review of a system, a tax or a tax is that you have to do that review. One of the main problems as it is today is that there is enough evidence to say that the inheritance tax itself also re-distributes. But we're unfortunately missing some statistics as to how this turns out. That's the one side of the case. The second is that we may also experience that the inheritance fee has lower legitimacy than what we want it to have, because the system is unclear - or in every unpredictable way - in the sense that someone can plan out this and pay lower inheritance tax than you can, as opposed to ordinary people. That's the background for the review, and it'll be completely pointless to come up with what it will lead to. This gives us plenty of opportunity to debate when the Government presents its approach to the 2009 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1146	It was in the 1950s and 1960s, and perhaps a little in the 1970s, possible for ordinary workers to obtain fantastic cabins, for example. on the edge of the sea, and with great self-esteem, set up a cabin which has since been a collection point for many families. Many of these cabins are now the subject of a generation change. A lot of people probably want to keep these cabins a meeting place for the same families -- without the families getting much richer than they were at the time. Does not the representative have any understanding that the type of family property – where not five cents are to be realised by sale – should have been treated differently than cabins that come for sale, and where there is large amount of money in circulation that can be used for inheritance tax payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1153	Well, I have no problem understanding that many families want to preserve their family cabin or their family property, whether it's on the south coast or in the mountain resort. Personally, I have had my feet with my father, because he managed to throw a very nice cabin in Kragerø on the sea in the 1960s. They were going to sell this, found out that it was just nonsense. It was a very nice place. But I'll warn you that we almost make poor people who inherit large properties -- at least in terms of market prices -- and make them victims. Inheritance is a good thing, and I think we also have to base that on. As I said, we are going to have a full review of the entire spectrum, but I think it would probably be more reasonable for the representative Sponheim, who has, after all, been involved in presenting this proposal, to propose to abolish the inheritance fee. It's strange when those who want to keep a cabin are going to drop the inheritance fee, while other people who want to sell a property for different reasons are charged a full fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1163	Inheritance tax is payment to the country when values within the same family are transferred from one generation to the next - in many ways a tax on death. This is almost without exception values that have been processed over time and that the owner has paid taxes to acquire. So if you had used up the money, you would have gotten rid of this fee. Does the representative, Mr Mikalsen, believe that double taxation is an acceptable principle as long as one has a general purpose in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1168	I want to defend a tax system that is fair, where those who have more than the average contribute to the community more than the ordinary people have to do. And once again, I can just show that the most important thing is that we now get a full review of the entire inheritance tax spectrum with a view to going through the rates, structure, the whole system, to make it more fair, but at the same time make sure that the community keeps income. I think we should be able to do that. Then we will debate this in full, when the 2009 state budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1176	It is not exactly «breaking news» that the Progress Party is against the entire inheritance fee. We therefore believe, as we have also written in our committee comments, that the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the «conditional exemption from the inheritance tax of a change in the generation of a company’s business» and the proposal from the Right and the Left on the «conditional exemption from the inheritance tax on the inheritance of family property» are the first steps in the right direction to get rid of the entire inheritance tax. The inheritance fee, which we know is an old-fashioned fee from all the way back to 1792, is, in my opinion, the worst and most morally reprehensible fee we have in Norway. It is also the most hated charge among the majority of people in Norway, alongside the document fee. So if we are to listen to what the majority in Norway wants, these proposals should have a majority here today. Why is the inheritance fee so bad? Yes, among others. Because it's a double taxation. For example, you buy your home for money that you have been paid for, i.e. already taxed. Furthermore, you pay the document fee, VAT at the cost, annual property tax and perhaps property tax. So in addition to this, the state and graphs of the private economy come to dead people. So the death penalty must be paid to the state. It becomes even more unreasonable when the children inherit a dwelling in which they live, which is the childhood home, but which in its utmost consequence must be sold in order to obtain money to pay the death penalty to the state. How fair is that? And how often do we hear about heirs who have inherited a hut that the family has had for generations and that has now gained great market value. The inheritance fee is fast approaching 1 million kroner. kr. Because of the appreciation of property that leads to an increase in inheritance tax, many people have to make a generation change before you really want to, if you want to be sensible. Thus, the tax policy of the Government leads to tax planning, with all this leading to it. Furthermore, we often hear that there are arguments in connection with inheritance settlement, which, in the worst case, lead to legal expenses and broken families. We have several examples of how unfair and expensive for people most of this fee is. One example: you inherit mother and father, who have had an exclusive residence in Oslo east and a small cabin by the sea. The sales value is 5 million. kr. So to inherit your parents, you have to pay the state $828,000 because your parents died. Does the government think it's fair? Another example: you inherit a normal family cabin by the sea that, for example, might cost you $3 million. kr. Then you have to pay the state NOK 428,000. Is that fair? A third example: Mom and Dad have a house on the east side with a worn bath. The market value can quickly reach 4.5 million. kr. The heir must then cancel out with 728,000 kroner. How fair is that? This is small money for the state, but huge sums for those who inherit the house of mother and father. The government collects approx. NOK 2.6 billion in inheritance tax; there is no more than 0.2 pst. of the total tax revenue. When we know at the same time that last year the state got in approx. 42 billion more than budgeted for tax revenue in the domestic economy, it should really just be lacking that this does not benefit most people in terms of, among other things. tax reliefs. And then we have the inheritance fee for a generation change in family business. Should you inherit a family-run company, it may be very difficult to pass it on. It is estimated that almost 90 000 family-run enterprises will change ownership over the next five years, and not everyone will be able to do so. This does not help the state to have a death penalty here as well, which in the utmost consequence could mean the death of the company as well. Then it's a cross of thought, as also the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde mentioned earlier today, that we pay state subsidies, several billion dollars, via Innovation Norway to people who want to start a new company. It is good that the founder has now become a popular word, "in" among several politicians, and that we have begun to lift them up. That's very good. But when one so at the same time charges a death penalty if a company owner dies and the heirs want to take over, then it is wrong. Then it's illogical to me, even though it's not for the Torgeir Micah. What about agricultural subsidies? For example, Norway spends billions of dollars there. the argument that something is going to happen in the districts. We must not forget the framework conditions for the existing businesses, i.e. the family businesses, which are often in the districts and have inherited. These have built up values over time, acquired knowledge and experience over several generations, and would like to continue to run the business at the same location as has been done for several generations. Then it is bad that the family business has to be wound up, sold, sold, sold, that you have to borrow, or that you have less money to invest on because the government is charging a death penalty. Another example of taking one hand and giving with the other - with all the bureaucracy this entails. I would like to address the proposal of the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Left in case No. 5 and the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1202	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1205	The inheritance fee creates debate, and it arouses strong emotions. The inheritance fee means little to the state, but it means a lot to those affected. I am pleased that we have had this opportunity to discuss the inheritance fee, both the reason for it, how it may be set up and how it may be phased out. Although the Government is now in the think-tank as to how it will promote its proposals for the harvest, it is important that the Storting uses the opportunity to discuss this charge before the Government submits its proposals. Right, it looks fundamentally positive that families that have built something up over a long life want to leave values to the next generation. This is also a fundamental value in conservative thinking, namely that it is valuable that families leave something in at least the same good condition as what they themselves acquired. I still register that others see it differently. The complainant Torgeir Mikalsen argued primarily in respect of inheritance issues, that there were economic values that could be realised here. Those who inherit must not be made poor, said Micaelsen. No, of course I agree with that. But the challenge is that you have an inheritance tax that can contribute to weakening fundamental values in our society, namely, that a family or an individual builds something up through a long life and leaves it to the next generation. The inheritance fee is perhaps the most unfair fee, and it also affects very randomly. In this article, I would like to focus on the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left to grant conditional inheritance tax exemptions for the inheritance of family cabins or childhood homes. The reason why this proposal has become particularly topical is that in recent years we have had a rather explosive increase in housing and property prices. In a very short time, there is a cabin or a house that cost 1.5 million. kr, doubled in value. In other words, a house costing 1.5 million. kr, today can be valued at 3 million. kr. If a family of teachers inherits this childhood home, it as other families must pay more than 400,000 kroner in inheritance fees. For many, this means that the home you have lived in, or the cabin that has been the meeting point for the family, is sold out of the family, simply because you cannot afford to pay the inheritance fee to the state. I accept that the Workers' Party and SV see it differently, but for us this is primarily about family values, about fundamental values in our society, and not primarily about economic values. The representative Sponheim also referred in a previous reply to the rather dramatic increase that has occurred in the prices of cabins by the sea and in the mountains. I think it's a fundamental and positive value in our society that it's not just the richest who can afford to have a cabin in Kragerø or elsewhere along the coast or up in the mountain cottage in the popular places. But it'll be completely unimaginable for a teacher's family or for a nurse's family, even for a coffer's representative, to be able to buy a cabin in the most popular places along our coast today. With the inheritance fee that we are still living with, it is my prediction that in a few generations we will experience that it is only the most wealthy people who can afford to keep cabins by the sea or at the most popular places in the mountain resort. It should also be a paradox for social democrats, who have also been concerned that ordinary people should have the opportunity to buy a cabin and maintain a gathering place that has been in the family for generations. But through the symbolism and rhetoric that is now taking place in the field, the result will be very fast that it's just the very richest who can afford to keep the cabins in these places. I think that should be a paradox also for social democrats. I note that there are mainly policy arguments for distribution in the field. But if you scrape a little under symbol policy and rhetoric, you'll see that the inheritance fee is not a problem for the richest. The richest will either be able to afford to pay the inheritance tax, or they will organise their business in such a way as to circumvent the levy. That means that there are quite ordinary people who pay the inheritance fee, and they are the ones who are hit by it, and not the richest. So the distributional rationale, I think, is simply not valid, because there are no distributional political arguments that suggest that the wealthiest should have the opportunity to reorganize their business so that they do not have to pay inheritance tax, while people with ordinary wages have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars if they inherit their childhood home or family cabin. This is also why a social-democratic government in Sweden abolished the inheritance tax, precisely because there were difficulties in seeing the distributional arguments for the tax today. Finally, I am pleased to note that the bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction with regard to the inheritance fee. There are slightly different nuances in the proposals, but all four bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction, namely that they want a lower inheritance tax. On the other hand, I note that the red-green parts crack in all directions with regard to the inheritance fee. Per Olaf Lundtigen has in Stortinget clearly stated the following--and I would think that in this context he speaks not only on behalf of himself, but also on behalf of the Center Party: ‘In the case of inheritance taxes and dwellings occupied by succession owners and holdings which are heirs, this is a very important theme for the Centre Party. We have to keep track of what is required in time. The centre party is not foreign to think in the direction of conditional inheritance tax exemptions when heirs acquire houses or property to continue. It is an exemption with conditions close to the heart of the Centre Party.’» What Lundtigen here expresses is quite identical to the proposals that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party has promoted in the Stortinget today, while Heikki Holmås of the Socialist Left Party has argued strongly for the inheritance fee, and he gives an ideological defense for the inheritance fee and points out that it should perhaps be increased in next year's state budget. So as the Central Party points towards the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party in terms of the inheritance fee, we see that in particular the Socialist Left Party provides ideological defence for this fee, and rather argues that it should be increased. Also in this area is the root of the red-green camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1236	Our government has announced that the inheritance fee will be reviewed with a view to making it fairer, and to increase the price of it. The main result of this review should be that the inheritance tax is far more proportionate to the values transferred than it is at present. Taxes and taxes should not be higher than is necessary, but the collection of taxes and taxes is absolutely necessary to finance our welfare services, such as school, health, care, kindergartens, etc. The question is how to collect public revenue in the fairest possible way. It's a long debate, but I think it's fair that people who have been so lucky to have wealthy parents have to pay a certain proportion of the inheritance to the community. The inheritance tax should therefore have a place in a fair tax system. We all know examples of more or less ordinary people who have become owners of properties that through the coincidences of history have received a very high market price. In the process of succession, the inheritance tax on the property becomes very high, and in many cases the family is forced to sell. But I'm not aware that it's a very big problem to inherit a property that's very valuable. If you got a choice, most people would certainly agree to accept such an inheritance, despite the inheritance fee. But it is also not desirable that the most beautiful areas in our country become pure empires. It's a theme we're aware of. If it is possible to find solutions to this that do not open new gaps in the inheritance fee, we will come back to it in the review of it. It makes sense for changes to the inheritance tax to be made in the context of an overall review. If the president is in the lucky situation that he inherits a property worth 100 million. NOK, he must pay close to 20 million. kr in inheritance tax. If the president had inherited the same property, but this time as an asset of an unlisted limited liability company, he would only pay taxes on the value of the equity of the property. Let's estimate it by about 10 million. kr. In addition, the president wanted a 70 pst tax rebate. of the equation value. This way, 100 million could be. Actual inheritance will be reduced to SEK 3 million. kr before the inheritance tax is to be calculated. In addition, if the President inherits some debt, he will soon be free to pay the inheritance tax at all. I'm not a mind reader, but I know that the president would do the same thing as the Norwegian people most do. He would see to it that he was inherited from that property through an unlisted limited liability company and in practice escaped the inheritance tax. For the right-hand side, this isn't enough. They want to open new holes in the inheritance fee that - if the president allows it - will be the size of a barn door. Anyone who is able to place his or her inheritance in a family-owned holding shall, according to the right-wing parties, be entitled to an inheritance fee. To put it another way: the right-wing parties want Norway's richest to let go of paying some kind of tax. Our government is conducting a systematic review of the tax system to seal these holes. We've done a part with the property tax, where more real value of wealth has made it possible to increase the bottom line from 151,000 to 350,000 kroner. In this way, wealth taxes are now paid to a much greater extent by those who are actually rich. 300,000 more have since escaped to pay property taxes, while some of the richest pay more than 1 million. kr more in property taxes this year in relation to what they did in 2005. In Document No: 8:23 the proposers have described this conversion of the property tax as follows: ‘The Government of Stoltenberg II has proposed, in all its draft budgets since its accession, an increase in the property tax affecting family-owned enterprises and Norwegian ownership.’ It is close to interpreting this as if the proposers do not support our efforts to make the wealth tax fairer, but that they also want the richest in Norway to escape. Our government has announced that a similar review of the inheritance fee will take place. Let there be no doubt: for SV, it is an objective that this review should lead to a fairer inheritance fee as well. The proposal on the table today will make the inheritance tax more unfair. The bourgeois parties are now promoting proposals that will make Norway's richest people zero-tax contributors. Despite the consequences it may have for the president's future inheritance, I would strongly warn against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1265	There was a strong rhetoric in the previous article. I realized that the Christian People's Party was part of the right parties, but that's not enough. The representative Lena Jensen must also include Per Olaf Lundtigen and the Center Party in this directory of right parties that will the rich well and no one else. I don't think it's that simple, and I'm going to spend the most time on the proposal for a conditional exemption from the inheritance tax for generation change in family business, because I think it's an objective truth that this government is spending very little time on the issue of generation change, and especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises we're talking about here. It is enough to refer to the recommendations that come from the European Union, which Norway has largely not followed up. So the opposition tries to make some well-intentioned suggestions, and then they are rejected by reference to the fact that one is doing a job of reviewing the inheritance fee. Let's at least hope that this review starts with the need to have a viable business life, and not in the rhetoric about taking from the rich and giving to the poor, because this really has nothing to do with it. This is to provide for a functioning business, not least in a transition from one generation to another, which is to provide for this well-being that we will all live on in the future. So the proposal is that we want a conditional exemption from the inheritance tax for a generation change in family-owned companies, so that there will be no inheritance tax if the next generation has been operating for 10 years - and a write-off of 10 pst. per 1 % years on winding-up. It's not a trifle thing we're talking about here. We estimate that we have about half a million small businesses in this country, of which approximately 120 000 are ahead of a generation change in a few years. Then the question is too many: If there is no liquidity to pay the inheritance fee, should we rather lay down and apply for work duties on another team? For parties engaged in business in the districts, this should be a very important matter to address, and I'm not in doubt about where the centre party's heart is here. With reference to today's lookup in the nation, where it is stated from our team that old love does not rust, I can at least say that right at this point the Christian People's Party feels a close communion with the Center Party. And I encourage Lundtägen to give some signals in his post about what he sees as being that this review of the inheritance fee that is now on the stairs is going to lead to - whether there is going to be a redistribution, an increase, or whether he also sees ourselves as the best business and welfare seeker to provide a basis for small and medium-sized enterprises that are better than today. I recommend the proposal at its warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1278	The President feels that there has been love between the representative Syversen and the representative Lundteg. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1281	I can confirm, as usual on behalf of the Center Party, that there has also been a love relationship between different parties in which the Centre Party has been involved. We've had our experiences, and most people see where we stand today. [[Laughter]] It is, I think, quite fine that the Government will carry out a broad review of the rules on inheritance fees. Taxes on income and wealth and inheritance taxes are linked. The center party sees this in one whole. Our fiscal policy line is tax by ability, and we are the foremost in this room and in the public debate to foreshadow it, both as principle and as practice. Taxes by ability apply to the income tax. We have a hard time saying that the greater income, the more ability you have to pay taxes. We're responsible for the same thing with respect to property taxes. The centre party is basically a clear and warm defender of the principle of property taxes. Why are we doing this? Well, because the alternative to property taxes is property taxes, which the opposition usually does not mention is one of the degrees of the widespread tax form in other European countries and in the United States. In Sweden, it has created enormous debates, and is not least a major problem for the many who are also trying to get their own housing there. Property tax is a much worse form of taxation than wealth tax. Property taxes shall be an extra tax on a non-workable income in addition to what we believe, in a social assessment, that taxpayers should have an economic reserve to deal with the everyday lives of life. Corresponding to property taxes, the Senterpartiet is in principle an inheritance tax. It is referred here to the opposition's agreement. No, the opposition fundamentally disagrees. The Progress Party is in principle against inheritance fees. The other parties are basically inheritance fees. We are thus in a discussion about how the inheritance fee should be designed. The centre party is in favour of the principle of inheritance tax. The person who inherits much gets the ability to pay more in inheritance tax. So simple is the starting principle. But as I said, it is now important to carefully review the legislation on the inheritance fee. In principle, the turnover value shall be taken into account for the input values used in calculating the inheritance tax. This principle creates a number of dilemmas that need to be discussed in depth. Thus, large increases in the market values of personal owned family properties, houses and leisure homes create a basis for high and ever higher inheritance tax, this is a matter of little change in the return on work in the family business, or of a similar small change in living value. This creates dilemmas that the red-green government takes seriously, and that I had a little hope that at least someone in the opposition could see as a dilemma that one was happy that the government is going into. It should have been a long time ago, but it has not happened. We want to modernise the inheritance tax code. An inheritance fee is one thing. The inheritance tax base is the central basis for the calculation of the inheritance tax. The inheritance tax base must not be set up in such a way that the beneficiary of a family, personal activity or similar accommodation or holiday home of normal standard must sell the industry, dwelling or cabin for seagoing use. That, I think, is a very well-known principle, which must be borne in mind. As I said, inheritance tax is part of a comprehensive tax policy such as distribution, industrial policy considerations and our long tradition that people should own their own home of standard, and similarly should be able to realize their dream of having a sober holiday home, should help to realise. These different considerations need to be reconciled in a new regulatory framework adapted to the economic situation of our time. There is an important work going on here. There are important principles on which to base. It is important to change the system in line with the economic situation we are in today. I'm sure the red-green government will find a balance in this. There are very many of those who previously named themselves sails that are not so mediocre, who are now inside this reality where one acquires property that has a low return value, but for which others may be willing to pay very much for. If the price level is to be taken into account for the inheritance tax, what most people in these circles consider to be a fair and fair practice of the inheritance tax is broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1302	I hear that the representative Lundtigen praises the modernisation he expects to enter the state budget for the autumn. I have also registered some of the points that the representative Lundtigen points out, and he is looking forward to doing something about them. Both Lundtigen and the rest of the Red-Green politicians and the majority of the Financial Committee are committed to constantly pointing out what is to come to the harvest. Could the representative Lundtigen perhaps tell us what, in his view, is the most important thing about the modernisation of the inheritance tax system which he now expects the red-green government to promote in the state budget now until the harvest, and which people can look forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1309	This is a type of case where it is not particularly wise to go very carefully into what changes we are going to make. Former governments have carefully explained the changes they were going to make, and this led to tax adjustments that were not good for the ordinary taxpayer. That's why I don't want to go into it very carefully. I have just said very clearly that inheritance tax is linked to entry values, and the determination of entry values is usually an important part of the discussions we are talking about here. In this context, it is essential to take account of different considerations. I mentioned distribution reasons, business considerations and the considerations that are totally unorthodox, I would say, namely, the fact that there has been a broad political consensus that individuals should be able to obtain their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1316	Lundtigen has lost all tax debates internally in the red-green parties. He has ordered a higher tax on income. The red-green parties have provided them with large tax reliefs up to government salaries, no tax reliefs to them with low and common incomes. Lundtigen is against taxes on wealth on working capital. The red-green government has increased the tax on working capital. Lundtägen also disagreed with the Government's shipping tax proposal. I am recording that Lundtigen in Stortinget has expressed his agreement with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on the conditional inheritance tax exemption in the case of houses, dwellings and businesses, while SV has called for an increased inheritance tax. What was the point that Lundtegen, when he has lost all the other tax debates in the red-green parties, would win in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1325	If Mr Sanner's reality is correct, there is no reason why the representative Lundtigen or the Central Party will win anything in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1330	At least then I believe that the representative Lundtigen and I would agree that we should hope that the representative Sanner is not right, otherwise it will be a sad day to day - at least for the representative Lundtigen. I want to go back to the love conditions, with which I realized Lundtigen had different experiences. Who was the coin on, he might have the opportunity to say something more about it. With regard to the inheritance fee and the companies that pass over a generation change, I would like to know if the representative Lundtägen agrees with a description that is as follows: Two generations have in fact been working together for 20-30 years, while the company has been in the oldest generation, and there is a generation change with subsequent inheritance tax, which in reality means that the next generation, who has worked all of it, also has to pay inheritance tax for what he has been working on. Is it reasonable or unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1339	Every day is now quite pleasant, then! There are many who rejoice both in this room and in other rooms. Fortunately, some of us are also out in the open, and it's very nice to work with and look at. As far as love is concerned, I think we can go into it in more detail. The example used by the representative, where one in one generation starts its business when one is 30 years old, and when it's 30 years old, the next generation comes and brings it on -- they've jointly worked up the values that apply here, and that's going to be transferred legally from one generation to the other -- is some of what we have to go into, seasily, because here the values are worked up not by one generation, but by two generations, and then it has to be reflected in what goes on. How to do that is quite demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1346	I would like to encourage the representative Lundtigen to give some signals of hope for those who would like to take over a family property, for example. a cabin by the sea, built 30-40 years ago, when it was possible for ordinary workers to obtain a measured area by the sea and set up a cabin with great self-sufficiency. Now they're facing a generation change and don't see the possibilities to take over, because they see that this is now a well-valued cabin, as you can see from advertisements in the newspaper almost every day, to 3-4-5-6 million. kr. It is not a tax on the ability to take over such an inheritance tax within the family when it does not flow one penny in cash flow, rather on the contrary. It's not tax adjustment that's dangerous here. All they can do is postpone the next year to make that family transfer. Can the representative Lundteg give a signal that it is his vision that will win, and not the vision that SV has expressed here in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1353	As I said, we've been on the topic we're talking about here, also in connection with the income tax on houses and cabins. There I have some experience of how those debates have gone and how they go. The situation of the people who take over the naked houses and the naked cabins is being brought forward here. They must be taken care of, while those who take over houses and cabins far beyond what is necessary must be protected by the same legislation - whether in the case of income taxation or inheritance tax taxation. The party left was of those who went into ambush on what in my previous period was the proposal for housing taxation. If we had received that house tax at the time, it would have been possible to get a very favourable tax on the cheap homes, the house-bank homes, while at the same time having received a tax on what was beyond that. It was torpedoed, and it was very negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1362	When I pointed out that Lundtigen had lost all the tax struggles so far, it was in the hope of giving Lundtigen some arguments to win the next discussion. I regret that Lundtegen was then apprehended by the senses of the tongue and then pessimistic on the next round. I still want to light up a new hope, because Lundtigen has, as we have referred to earlier today, given an estimate where he points in a direction: that when a generation takes over, whether it is a company, family cabin or childhood home, and drives it on, it should be a conditional inheritance tax exemption for it. Is this proposal that the Central Party will stand by and fight for in the further budgetary process? Or is that how you might get the impression in the previous line answer, that you've already given up initially? I register that in the public debate it is Heikki Holmås who primarily sets the agenda in the direction of increasing the inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1369	The centre party has not given up. The center part leads a line in this hall and outside, and what's said from our side, it's solid. It's not withdrawn. We stand on that line: Do your duty, demand your right! We're on the balance between the different considerations that we're going to try to take care of here. If the party Right would go on board in a more sober discussion about this, perhaps the possibilities of getting to the necessary renovations of the arrangements -- which would be an advantage in the situation we're up in -- would be better. So the hope is there, I can only reassure the representative Sanner with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1374	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1378	First, to the representative Lundtigen's linecode shift and posts. He used some notions of income tax on houses and cabins in his reply to me that I think it is necessary for the representative Lundtigen to update our legislation. Very well-known was the law on beneficial taxes on owner-occupied dwellings, which was an income tax, abolished by the previous government. So it's not a house tax anymore, thanks to the previous government. Then the representative, Lundtegen, made a claim that the Left had torpedoed the attempt to create a different tariff system for housing and cabins that were being treated in the mid-1990s, more than ten years ago. The current Minister of Finance was also involved in that treatment, and in that case he was probably involved in torturing it at least as much. As far as I can remember, the reality was that the minority government of the Workers' Party gave up getting such a new system. The Ministry of Finance failed to deal with the signals received from the case rapporteur, Lundtägen, at the time, that there were plot sizes so large that there was room for an attachment and space for a harebike, and the Ministry of Finance had problems converting this into tax legislation. It's better to say that the whole problem boiled away in the cabbage than that someone helped to torpedoes it. The historical coincidences contained in these valuations remain, as you know, constant. For the two proposals we have to deal with today, it could be said that at least they help raise the issue of inheritance tax. In the eyes of me and the Left, and in the eyes of the proposers, there seems to be obvious unfairness to the current inheritance tax regime, and the two proposals capture two completely different aspects of the inheritance tax regime that many people experience as unfair. It is not at a few dinner tables around Norwegian families this these days is a big theme, a theme of despair, because there are as many properties that families own as they want to remain in the family and could have an opportunity to continue to own, which makes the inheritance fee very problematic. When it comes to the question of acquisition of family property, house or cabin, it's basically just saying that it hits me almost every day when I browse the ad pages in the newspapers, how many new and beautiful properties are still being sold. Many of them are of course for sale because you want to realize large values. That must be absolutely right. Then it must also be completely right, as long as we have an inheritance fee, to go into the large cash flow that then flows, and charge an inheritance fee. But unfortunately, it's a good part that's sold because you can't afford to take care of the place of your family, whether it's a house or a cabin. We may talk very often about cabins by the sea that have been given huge increases in value, because it is no longer possible to take many of the beautiful areas into use for cabin construction. After this proposal was presented, after this whole issue was raised, there are a few other issues that I feel have hit a nerve out in people, than this particular case. I've got an incredible number of letters from people who in their despair have cut out the ad for their property--very often a very nice plot by the sea where there's a quite simple cabin--that's got a huge rate. They should have kept the property, and in their despair they send a copy and say that this is something they are forced to do, because they cannot afford to pay the inheritance fee, possibly redeem the sibling, in order to continue to have such a property in the family. That is the background to this proposal. There is also the background to walking this border between real estates that are actually realised is sold, so that there is a large cash flow to hang a fee payment on, and properties that you simply want to remain a collection point for the family, and from which there is no one crown to be realised. This is real. I don't want to make anyone poor. That is not the basis for our successful society. But there are a lot of people who in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s were able, as I mentioned in a couple of lines, to acquire the kind of property that has always been in use in the family, and which you still want to have in the family, but which is now difficult to take care of, because of this. I have a past and a childhood in Eastfold. I am very well known in the archipelago of Eastfold, not least on Hyler, where I understand that the Prime Minister has his holiday paradise. On that island and on many other islands in the 1950s and 1960s, it was very good for ordinary workers to obtain beautiful plots. I have contact with many of them yet. I know that there are many of those who are now standing in the middle of a generation shift, who are forced to sell these properties, even if they don't want it. There are simple cabins that they have often built themselves, but with plots that make them worth millions of dollars. These are the ones we want to make with this proposal. It will surprise me very much if, not least, the main party of the government also receives many requests that you have to try to have a boundary line between the kind of family property and other properties where big money is realized. You can also do the same reflection in the case of childhood homes or housing. Maybe there's another kind of injustice here. It's about those who are so unfortunate to have their childhood home in Oslo. They are in an unusually more difficult situation to be allowed to stay in and take over the childhood home, with the same reason, than many of those who have their childhood home far outside Oslo. While a childhood home that you want to take over and continue to live in, and thus do not realize any cash flow to which the inheritance fee is linked, can come up in many millions of dollars here in Oslo, it is so that in my municipality of origin it is hardly possible to see that a house can be sold for over 1 million kroner. kr. Thus, inheritance tax will never be a problem related to a childhood home. There is obvious geographical discrimination here. But the reality is no different. You want to take over and stay in the home where you're born and raised. It seems to me that in central parts, and not least here in Oslo, where residential property is something quite different than in other parts of the country, should be a little busy. You make it impossible to have a childhood home here in Oslo, it's going to be a commercial sales product, while everyone else in the country can be allowed to relate to the childhood home and even to be able to keep it. Then it's the other proposal, which in many ways raises completely different issues, and connects other values to. It is to make it possible to take care of perhaps the most stable and important form of ownership we have for the smallest enterprises in this country, namely family businesses. One could have had a big and certainly stirring debate with today's government on ownership of business at all. I'm of that opinion, and the party I'm part of, is of the opinion, that it's absolutely crucial and has its own value to take care of the private, Norwegian, long-term ownership. The most private and the most long-term I think is related to the family businesses, especially the businesses that go through generations. It is the basic core of Norwegian enterprises, whether they are Norwegian farms, shops or very many other types of family farms. We know that in Norway we are now facing very many generational shifts in this type of enterprise, as elsewhere in Europe. We see that other countries in Europe may have greater attention and a clearer policy that they want to make it possible for this type of family business to remain in the family and not be accumulated by participating interests, large chains that want to take over them. This is true if not agricultural holdings so at least shops etc. It should be a self-esteem. This proposal may not be the decisive and greatest in this context, but one important contribution and a key sign of value that we want family businesses to remain, as far as possible, in the families. So finally a little bit about the process on. Although the proposals that could have been given a majority today do not propose to change the rules, but provide guidance for what the Government is going to come back to, they send out some clear values in this area. However, I believe that this is being dealt with, and that attention has been paid outside this room and outside the political environment, also putting pressure on the Government and the Minister of Finance to deal with these inheritance tax issues and other inheritance tax issues against the 2009 government budget. I hope people see their visitation time as to what is happening now. As far as I can interpret him, the centre party and the representative, Mr Lundtigen, have announced that there will be proposals that will move in the direction of what the proposers have put forward. It should be linked to expectations. People should use the opportunity forward, including the voters of the red-green parties, and put pressure on the process that is. I think it's important. I also believe that this debate may have helped many to engage in the future. That's hoping. It would have been tempting in a day like this to draw up a debate on the red-green principle of justice. I think it's interesting when the SV team announces that it's going to be a fair system. I fear a little bit of the red-green principle of justice, what that will mean. But I don't think we should take the last day before Easter, but maybe we will have to take it when the 2009 state budget and the so-called fair inheritance tax system are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1407	I repeat what I said: the left was involved in torping the new tax system and rules in 1996. There were taxing rules for which there was a majority in the Stortinget between the Workers' Party and the Center Party. They built on technical values, not on sales values - that is, what the representative Sponheim now celebrates, and which he then opposed. The system was adopted at Stortinget. There was calmness, and there was a sense of hope in many rows. Unfortunately, it was not realized. Left in government--what's that? Well, one took away the income tax on housing and retained a full deduction of debt interest - an elegant breach of symmetry by the fact that income and expenditure in relation to the same tax item must be seen together. But the many people who have to rent a dwelling do not get a deduction for rent in their income. The question is, is the Left's leader satisfied with such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1414	I think that the reason for Lundtegen's permeable bitterness is evident when we now hear that it is the treatment of the equation tariffs 12 years ago that is still pending. But now Lundtigen has the full opportunity to go to his own government and do something about this. What was then, I understand, a clear policy between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, there is full opportunity to implement. Then we'll see if there's any applause for it around. Then I was surprised that the representative Lundtägen is attacking the fact that the benefit tax has been removed and that it is a deduction of interest. That means that we might have even greater reason to be horrified for the autumn, if that's the case that the Centrette will now fight to reintroduce the benefit tax on housing and cabins and limit the right to deduct interest. Then people with ordinary, simple homes have real reason to fear Lundtigen. The whipping of Norwegian villages can be quite ugly if this becomes the policy for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1421	I get to go in between here and take another point first. In the case of the proposal concerning the inheritance of family property, proceeds amount to 800-900 million. kr - Ministry of Finance figures. After all, there is a significant share of the total amount of the inheritance fee that we collect each year. Is it so to understand that we can expect the Left leader and the Left to defend the inheritance fee as a fee in principle? And what's the reason why parties that want people to be allowed to choose themselves are in favour of this? I am aware that many people may have to choose to sell because they cannot afford to pay a fee. Then you might want to look at the system, so that you can better protect those who have -- let's say -- more middle values that go to inheritance, and put more on those who inherit large amounts. Can we expect support from Lars Sponheim and Left for defending the inheritance fee as a system, but in a different form than it exists today? Or will he liquidate the entire arrangement as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1428	The left today has no program formulation about removing inheritance fees, and I will not advance the political processes that are going to be around these things in the future. But at least we want to contribute to what I would call a fairer charging system, namely that in that case the fee is linked to actual cash flows, sales values of which it is possible to pay taxes, and not to properties that just stay in the family, and where there is not a single penny in the amount of sales, you have to raise loans, etc. to take care of the property. A proceeds estimate of 800-900 million. kr will always be on an uncertain basis, for one does not know how many will actually realize such an inheritance or keep it in the family. But anyway, I think this is such an important value that I'm willing to prioritize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1433	That's interesting. The Left Party has not determined whether one is for or against inheritance tax now or in a later constellation - the party that claims to be social-liberal. The social side does not seem to be particularly prominent, when one is even discussing whether or not to have an inheritance fee. But what made me take a reply was this with the establishment of the inheritance tax base. The representative Sponheim spoke in large words about the values of urban dwellings versus built. The reason for this is that it is maritimely related to the sales values. I don't understand it any different than that Sponheim, in principle both in this context and in other contexts, has become a spokesman for the sales values, and then it has exactly the consequences that he himself calls unfortunate. At the same time, the deduction of rent is not included in the system of the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1440	Let me first say that's settled. The left has no program formula to remove the inheritance fee, but we are very much for a fairer inheritance fee, especially in those cases where you do not sell so that there is no cash flow to pay the fee, but you take care of what is – in the view of the left, at least – a long-term value, namely that families should be able to sit in generations on family properties. I understand that there can be questions about what Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie think about it after today's debate. It will be able to clarify the harvest. So I also want to make it very clear that the left is to keep the interest deduction for loans, among other things. to the house and the cabin. I understand that in this debate, too, Lundtigen has been able to create uncertainty about what will happen to it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1447	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1450	I'm going to focus in my article on the proposal for a generation change in companies. But first let me straighten out an incursion in the comments of the opposition parties, which is where we write about the interest-free repayment scheme over seven years, and that the majority government has stopped it. They don't, and it has to be corrected. It has not been our intention to add stones to the burden for the government parties--it is enough to take off anyway, to say it that way--in this case. What gets a little lost in the debate here is that the background for this is that two out of three Norwegian companies are family businesses - small and medium-sized. They stand for 40 pst. of value creation and workplaces. 97 pst. of all these enterprises have fewer than 20 employees. That means that every 25-30th year these companies are to be re-started, with a new generation. We often celebrate new ideas, innovation, unborn businesses and entrepreneurial activities. We establish investment funds, etc. This is honorary words that we cultivate. We should also take care of the continued value creation of companies that are in good hands, which have proved for many years that they have the right to life. What we're discussing here today is that these companies are going to charge us with an extra tax of up to 20 pst. by the values to be allowed. Then it is not without reason that the European Commission recommends that Member States use as much resources on generational shifts as on innovation. Probably it should have been used more, because the starting point for generation change is so much better, so much closer to successful business projects than to innovation. There should be incentives instead of taxation. There are a number of examples of large and medium-sized enterprises – also, for that matter – undergoing major changes in product development, innovation and productivity through generation shifts. These are changes that require a lot of resources and are very much reminiscent of new start-ups. That's why it's a shame to minimize the size of the proceeds here. This applies to individual enterprises, and not least to very many of them in the coming period. The majority of the parties state in their comments that the law is so favourable that what is called heirs and other recipients of gifts is simply a low tax burden. I think a lot of companies will take care of themselves to be called gift recipients. The case rapporteur said that it is good to be a company owner in Norway. During the hearing on this matter, for which there was also a great deal of interest, we heard quite clearly from a third-generation hotel owner how this works. Either you use very large resources over a very long time to adapt, or you get an extra calculation on this. Then it is a pity that we have not had a debate on business policy in connection with this, but a debate on distribution policy. The representative Lundtigen challenges the Right and the opposition parties to take seriously the dilemmas that government parties take seriously here. The dilemma he describes is how businesses will continue to function in a generational shift when you have to pay inheritance tax on the values. I would like to say to Lundtegen that that is why we have promoted this proposal. The representative of Lundtigen can only vote for it. What is the problem in this case is the formulation that the inheritance tax should be made more equitable in the area of generation change, and that it should be increased. This describes the representative Lundtigen as a dilemma, just as we do it. We have taken responsibility for it and promoted this proposal. But the rapporteur says, with a clear address for a generation change in companies, that large values should be taxed more. It is quite obvious that there are often relatively large values in enterprises. The representative Jensen of SV goes even further. She says briefly that it's fair that companies pay more - point. The big problem here is that there has been a debate on business policy, i.e. a debate on facilitating business, for a policy debate on distribution. There I feel that there is a big crack in the government. I also feel that the Norwegian business community, which sits and listens to this debate, would be well served by a clarification - not a clarification as to the details of the budget coming to the harvest, but at least a clarification as to which direction to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1475	There was a little bit of fresh air here instead. There may well be someone who now wants this debate to end soon, and that it will be possible to get some fresh air during the Easter holidays. However, I do not like to make any comments related to this discussion. First of all, I have to say that I largely share a comment that the representative Sanner made on a kind of value-conservative mission, but that I regard as an important societal task and an important personal mission, that of entrusting to the next generation something that is equally good or of equal value to what was acquired from the generation before. I think that applies both to what you might be responsible for in the family, and to society as such. If we're going to have a social perspective on it, one of the important values in our country is that we have a society with relatively less differences between people than you have in a lot of other countries. Being able to keep that perspective in all tax debates and how to set up our society is important. We know that inheritance is a source of further inequality. It is an important starting point for participating in this debate. Since everyone has now been inside all of their cabins and all of their homes and all of their private experiences, I am not going to go into it completely. But it is clear that, as values in the Norwegian society are now distributed, there is an important reason that in the housing market in the press areas, perhaps on smaller apartments, there has been a significant increase in costs over the last few years, that the parental regeneration of many newcomers, in the 50s, who have inherited from their parents, does not need to use the inheritance itself, but has put it into homes for their own children, thus contributing to the raising of prices. So you could say that wealth spreads to the next generations. Although there should be no reason to wonder whether the system of interest rebates is being debated, there is an important point the representative Lundtigen has to make in this area that it is expensive to be poor. Because if you're never in the position that you can get a bank loan, and never in the position that you have some parents to inherit, you're there that you have to live and pay rent and not get any subsidies in society. A lot of what we now see of wealth and inheritance is also built up through significant tax subsidies, which the interest deduction actually means. Inheritance taxes, property taxes, interest rebates - all that discussion - are about distribution in the big picture, but also about distribution between generations. One might say that the interest deduction is a way of borrowing in the first generation, and then it's through the property tax and the inheritance tax you have to pay back some of the subsidies you've received. With regard to the value of dwellings and cabins, which have accelerated in many of the major press areas, it is clear that there is a challenge for all inheritance settlements. First of all, it's a challenge for the sibling to buy out each other. Then we talk about completely different issues than paying a smaller inheritance fee, after all. But there are obvious challenges to it. I find it very difficult to share the reasoning in relation to taking over a childhood home that the representative Sponheim and others were in. Because in any case, if you can take over a dwelling according to the inheritance fee, you have a significantly more reasonable dwelling than if you were to buy into a market. So let's nuance the debate a little bit. What I cannot understand, however, is that the proposal on the inheritance fee relating to the cabins and dwellings that are retained would lead to some greater justice in the context of inheritance settlement than what I believe is the alternative, namely to create a fairer system for the inheritance fee we have, with increased deductions and fairer distribution. You can only imagine all the examples of people who, let's say, inherit a house in Oslo, but who are never going to move there, and are going to share with the sibling and are forced to sell. They will then have to pay the full inheritance fee. But those who live across the street can only move in and not pay the inheritance fee. There is a line of unfairness in that discussion, if you first think you need an inheritance fee, which will then occur. I am concerned that we should do something for the inheritance tax that goes in the same direction as we have done for the property tax. We have made major changes in the taxes on wealth that affect ordinary people who do not have all the world with neither money in the bank nor housing wealth. There are more than 300,000 people who now do not pay taxes on wealth compared to what it was when we took over the government power, and approx. Half of them are pensioners. There are 890 000 people who have lower taxes on wealth now than before, because we have reduced taxes on wealth. In addition, we've done it this way that married couples -- that was the agreement, I'm told -- have each their bottom subtraction. So there have been significant changes to bring about a fairer wealth tax. It is according to the same lines that I believe we have to think when we discuss the inheritance fee further. Something more in detail than that I don't intend to go, because all tax issues are of the kind that those who have the most resources are quick on the track and quick to adapt. Then the representative Sanner and others had various visits to the representative Lundteg, as if the correct picture of our government's tax policy was that the representative Lundteg and the Senterpartiet never got there. I just want to cancel that impression right away, and especially in these areas. What we have done in relation to enterprises in terms of generation change and these seven years of postponement that we have introduced is one example of an initiative that came from the Central Party. I would like to cooperate with the representative Lundtigen and have many interesting discussions with him on how we can achieve an increasingly fair tax system. And then I have to say -- a little visit at the end to the representative Sanner: it's almost incredible sometimes to hear what you allow yourself in tax debates. I don't know if the representative has such a long memory that he remembers the tax reform that former Minister of Finance Foss presented, and what kind of tax bill it was at the top of the revenue of that proposal. I'd like to remind the Right of that. It was a doubling in relation to what was actually introduced, as well as wanting to remove the property tax -- two grips that had one outcome, namely significantly increased differences and most for those who have a lot from before. I'm glad we're going the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1506	It could be exciting to be flying on the wall in the future talks that the Minister of Finance will have with Per Olaf Lundtigen, but we'll see what comes out of it. So the inheritance fee is one of the most unpopular fees we have here in the UK, and it is quite interesting that the majority, the government parties, in their comments in the vote actually say that you are aware that there are weaknesses in today's design, and that what you are going to do in the budget this autumn is going a little towards making the inheritance fee more fair, to increase the conclusion about it. First of all, do I wonder: does the Minister of Finance realise that a province-neutral system of today's inheritance tax should be created, so do you still want to charge the same amount of inheritance tax as you did for 2007-2008? Or do you realize that with the changes you're going to make, you're actually going to cut the inheritance fee? How does the Minister of Finance see the need to be able to increase the rise in inheritance tax, when so many people consider it to be so unfair?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1513	I'm not going to give any details about what kind of tax changes we're going to make for 2009. One important reason for this is that they have not been finalised and that the state budget is not presented until October. However, I can confirm that we are working to raise the deductions from the inheritance tax, and I do not imagine that the sum of the inheritance tax will be increased, so you do not have to go around and scare anyone with it. But how we're just making the tax bill for next year, I'm going to come back to. So I have to say that if you're busy with people most, you should also be concerned about those who never have any inheritance in sight, and who never got anything free from any generation before, because we know that inequality in wealth and the ability to inherit is going to increase the inequalities in society in the future. There are many, especially many young people -- I've met many of them in Oslo -- who have gone on display, and who don't have parents who can stutter up a million or two and help them get started, and who see how much impact this has on the distribution of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1520	I note that the Minister of Finance is primarily concerned with the economic aspects of the inheritance fee and to a lesser extent they see the values and the strong feelings associated with keeping a family home and a family cabin. With regard to the inheritance fee, I also note that the bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction, namely the desire for a reduced inheritance fee, while the red-green parties are breaking in all directions. While SV's representative Lena Jensen said that it is fair that companies pay more inheritance tax, and the representative Heikki Holmås provides an ideological defence for the inheritance fee and would like to set it up, the representative Lundtägen pulls in the opposite direction, saying in Stortinget: "The centre party is not foreign to think about the conditional inheritance tax exemption when heirs take over the house or property to move on." Which of these directions does the Minister of Finance agree with? Does she agree with SV's representatives, who want a higher inheritance fee, or with the Senter party, who wants a lower fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1527	I am very happy to have this question, because no one in SV has said that it is a goal for us that the inheritance fee as such should be higher. The goal for us is to have a fairer arrangement of the inheritance fee, for which I myself have now had many good reasons. It is a direction in which all three government parties fully agree. On the issue of generation change, and perhaps especially on the business side, I believe that there is a problem that needs to be taken into account when discussing inheritance tax and how to get a fair system. So here's two things that have to be weighed out: distributional reasons and how to ensure that very much of what are Norwegian small businesses, which are family-run enterprises, have reasonable framework conditions. So it's in this area, as it is in very many areas, slightly different considerations that need to be weighed out, and we have to do that before, and we're going to be able to do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1534	The Minister of Finance will probably draw up a broader tax debate than is the case in the two proposals under consideration today. But I would like to remind you - and that is in particular the reassuring thing under today's government - that there are two factors that stand out in terms of taxes. It is that the tax reform is firm, and that is that the tax level per person. 2004 has to be firm. SV was well outside the tax reform, but this makes it impossible for the rhetoric we hear about, tax on ability, interpreted as increasing progress taxes on income, if the two conditions are to be established. On the other hand, it is possible to take out their laying on a property fee and inheritance fee, and that is what I fear might be the case. My question is related to the following: Does the Minister of Finance see that simple family cabins built and provided for cheap money come up in staggering amounts, and that inheritance fees, like sharing between siblings, can lead to such cabins being sold, which you really don't want? And does she also see that the fact that such properties are sold leads to many rich people getting hold of beautiful properties that would not otherwise be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1541	I see that this is a problem, but I do not understand that we can solve it through the proposal that, among other things, The representative Sponheim has come here today, without introducing significantly greater injustice between them, for example: in any case, a cabin shall be sold by the heir, and those who, if any, wish to take over a cabin which they have the opportunity to inherit. So I think that the way to go for people to have more opportunities to sit with family cabins that may have gained a significantly greater value is through increased deductions in the inheritance fee, because I can't help but understand that the result you get by going a different way will make the injustice much greater. So I have to say that it's the combination here that's often what's people's big challenge. Because if you're going to buy out the sibling, it has a much higher price tag than the inheritance fee for the seventh and the last, and then it's the inheritance fee that's going to be the key to people's frustration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1548	Governments have a strange idea of what justice means. Equality seems to be the mantra itself-- the more like, the more fair. No matter how these values are worked out, or how the family has acquired these properties, equality itself is the mantra -- then it's fair. Quite the same-- quite fair, that's what Kristin Halvorsen is saying on the pulpit every time she's in this room. There is a fundamental disagreement between the Party of Advancement. Is it fair to tax people simply because they have values? Is it fair to tax values that have been taxed before, and how many times, if any, are taxed? These are my questions to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1553	Yeah, it's fair to have a tax system that means you pay taxes according to your ability. The wealth and values that are not necessarily employee income or capital income also have the ability to pay taxes. It's not that with the greatest assets and the greatest values in society, they're the ones that contribute most to the treasury in relation to what they actually have. Therefore, it will always be a challenge for us to make sure that we are striving towards a fairer tax system. Then I think that the representative Tybring-Gjedde now shows the distribution profile of the Progress Party very clearly. It is clear that that proposal from the Progress Party to remove the wealth tax is the same as giving the 100 richest people in Norway 7 million. kr in tax bills every year. - Well, I have numbers on it, so there's no reason to shake it's head. - The distribution profile of what is proposed in other areas of taxation means that much of what we manage today in common to the richest people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1560	I think the Minister of Finance has been clarifying in this debate. She has said that the changes will consist of increasing the deductions. It should be province neutral, and I also see that she wants to look at taking this back by changing the inheritance tax on ownership and on Norwegian companies. That's what very many people have been anxious about in this formulation that there should be more justice. The justice - the Minister of Finance will cancel it if I have seen it wrong - is due to the fact that Norwegian ownership should be charged higher, short and well. That's what I got out of the debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1568	The representative Fleet does not have any coverage in any of what I have said, to draw anything like that out of this debate. The representative of the fleet has coverage for this is our desire to increase the base deductions in the inheritance fee. Then I have said that I do not imagine that the total proceeds from the inheritance fee will be increased, but I have not committed myself to keeping the proposals within a province-neutral framework, or to something in the discussion on how to tax what is inheritance in connection with nutrition. I think the representative Fleet will stick to what I have said, if he is going to participate in this debate further forward, and that is a very clear signal that we want to make the arrangement of the inheritance fee more fair, but nothing more than that. There are good reasons for that. But at the end of the seventh, I want to say that we know that what's about property is very different. That's the sum of property taxes and inheritance taxes, along with a fair tax system, or else, that can make us come out with justice in sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1573	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. [[See page 2553]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1583	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1591	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2-8, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left The President noted that proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is available in a rich edition in the seats of the representatives. There will be a vote on proposal No. 9 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a more technologically up-to-date and social way of financing a public broadcaster than today’s licence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1620	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘pilar 3 point (b): the NRK shall contribute to strengthening Norwegian language, identity and culture. A large proportion of the offer shall have Norwegian anchoring and mirror Norwegian reality. The NRK shall have an offer for minorities.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘pilar 3 point c: the NRK shall disseminate knowledge and reflect the diversity of the Norwegian society. The NRC shall provide the venues for debate and information.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Pilar 3 point (d): the offer made by the NRK shall consist mainly of Norwegian language content. Both official target forms may be used.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘pilar 3 point g: the NRK shall communicate and produce Norwegian music and drama. The NRK shall communicate Norwegian films and stimulate the Norwegian film environment.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Pilar 4: NRK shall offer an offer in accordance with the wishes of consumers.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Pilar 5: NRK split and sold in parts in such a way as to achieve effective competition and achieve cultural policy objectives’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the gradual phasing-out of the television licence system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1668	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘pilar 3 point i: the NRK shall reflect Norway’s Christian and humanistic cultural heritage and the diversity of life views in Norwegian society’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1699	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Location anchoring is not used as a node status criterion.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The festival criterion shall be replaced each year by continuous operations requirements to an extent appropriate to fill the role of professional hub within its genre’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «Cross-point festivals must be free to apply for other public grant schemes for the development of their projects.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «Pointing-out institutions are presumed to adapt their statutes so that the election of members of the board of directors may take place without public interference.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1747	There will be a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 26 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with an annual report on the economic situation in Norwegian Typing’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1766	Proposals will be submitted from the Odel Stingen meeting on 28 February 2008. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to investigate and promote the Stortinget proposal to amend Section 30 of the Children's Act in line with the intention of Document No. 8:31 [[2007-2008]] The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to vote against the proposal. The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast for the proposal and 40 votes against the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.35.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1782	I ask that we have a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1787	Is there anyone who is willing to admit that they have voted incorrectly? - There were a lot of them! In other words, the Progress Party does not have 40 representatives in the Chamber, it will only be after the next elections! [[Laughter]] Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1805	During the debate, Jørund Rytman put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to the Storting to introduce changes to the inheritance fee, which means that the person who inherits a dwelling or a leisure dwelling and takes it into service will not be able to pay the inheritance tax, but that the fee will only be triggered if the dwelling is sold. The cancellation asks the Government to consider practical limitations on the number of properties that can be transferred under this scheme in the design of the rules.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1832	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to the Storting to introduce a right to an inheritance tax write-off over 10 years in the event of a generation change in family-owned enterprises. If the holding is wound up within a 10-year period, an inheritance tax reduced by one tenth for each year shall be payable.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-14.ana.ud1821e1862	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President will take the opportunity to wish all the representatives, members of staff and others who are working in Stortinget a good Easter. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
