ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e22	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e25	I am delighted on behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself to propose the winding-up of the system of state scholarships and guarantee receipts to artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e30	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e56	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Heidi Grande Røy State Council Board Vegar Solhjell The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e75	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. It is now social security settlement time. Minimum pensions in Norway are well below the poverty line in the EU. The minimum Danish pension is approximately NOK 200 000. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed a strong increase in our minimum pensions. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the red-green lower proportion promised. The result has been an increase every year. The minimum pensioners are major consumers of this, so they get a worse offer. Owner trust has sessioned. More and more pensioners are buying private health insurance because of long waiting time and poor treatment. It helps create a class distinction between well-managed pensioners and the least-pensioners in society. In the revised national budget, the government manages to increase the amount of fuel and diesel tax at the top of the market increase that has occurred on petrol and diesel. This leads to the announcement of NOK 18 per person. litre for fuel - which the minimum pensioners also have to pay. We have a super expensive agricultural settlement, and the bill has been sent to the users. One expects an increase of approx. 10 pst. on food prices, which, of course, the minimum pensioners also have to pay. Private sector wage growth seems to be at 6-7 pst, and we are now going into the government payroll, which can be the same or more. The costs of pensioners, and especially the minimum pensioners, those who have been with and built this country, have increased sharply lately. Then my question to the Council of State is simple: can the Council of State guarantee here and now that the minimum pensioners are covered by these costs and get an increase in their pensions in line with the other workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e88	The answer to the question is yes, the wage development of pensioners will follow the other wage developments. The Government aims to implement the social security system fully in line with the guidelines adopted by the Storting. Those guidelines are very clear, in the sense that you're both going to see if there's any lag from last year -- and that's this year, and that's what needs to be paid after -- and then you're going to compensate for the expected wage development this year. The same thing happened last year. This led to last year's best social security settlement, because wage developments were generally high. Last year, the minimum pensions increased by more than NOK 10000. Everything suggests that we get into the situation that last year's best social security settlement is this year replaced by the best social security settlement of the time, precisely because wage developments are as high as they are in society. In the last big period, as Vice-Chair of the Social Committee, I worked closely with, among other things. The party of progress and then the committee leader John Alvheim, and we were in a very active position to make the guidelines that we are now implementing the social security schemes. They're very precise, clear and clear that we're not going to underregulate G in terms of wage developments, and we're going to follow those guidelines now. Then during the autumn, the Stortinget will be presented with a legal case in which we will establish new guidelines for the regulation of pensions in the future. But per year. Today, it is quite clear that the Government will ensure that the social security settlement this year follows the wage trend that the general population has had, and all indications are that it will be the best social security settlement of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e99	There is nothing that delights both me and the Progress Party as much as we get a good settlement. The problem is that what the Council of State calls the best settlement of the time - which we had last year - led to minimum pensioners with 120 000 kroner a year, far below the EU poverty line. Compared to Denmark, where the minimum pensions are nearly SEK 200 000, the Norwegians are far, far behind. So it's about giving the people who, through a long life, have built this country, stone on stone, a good offer. Then the question is, does the Council not support the minimum pensioners who have helped build the country, a higher pension? Will he take the initiative to follow up the proposal of the Progress Party on a number of occasions, namely a minimum pension of between 130 000 and 140 000 kroner?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e108	Now there's another question -- what was the main requirement -- was that we should follow the social security policy and that pensioners should have the same wage development as everyone else. I have recorded that the Stortinget, not least the Advance Party, is very often concerned that the Government must be responsive to the decision and signals of the Stortinge. I agree with that. In any case, we must be very committed to following the decisions, and there is a very clear and clear decision in the Grand Duchy on the guidelines for implementing the social security system. The Progress Party has been active in shaping this, and we are going to implement the social security system in line with those guidelines. This will result in both minimum pensioners and other pensioners like everyone else getting a very good paycheck this year. The pensions, like the salaries of people, will be raised, so I think we can all count on a real wage increase in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e115	There will be follow-up questions--first Dagfinn Højbräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e118	The Christian People's Party is concerned with justice in the pension system both for the minimum pensioners and for other groups. Many have experienced becoming minimum pensioners or getting a low supplementary pension because they have taken care of their own children at home. It has been and is a task of great value to families and society, but until 1992 there has been no census in the form of service provision. The Christian People's Party has long called for retroactive power to be given to care generation legislation in favour of this group. We are satisfied with the pension reform, which ensures the vesting of pension entitlements for unpaid care work in the future as well, and we support the Government's proposal on the retroactive effect on care scores for this group of people who become subject to new retirement rules for retirement pensions, i.e. in whole or in part for persons born after 1951. But this in any case has no consequences for those who are already old-age pensioners. Will the Government initiate a more detailed retrospective assessment of care scores for this group, and if so, when can we expect a more detailed review of this need?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e123	We have no plans to implement such a return of care services. What we are now working on is a pension scheme that will in the future be such that those who earn new social security benefits will have a retrospective provision of care in new social security. This is related to the fact that those who earn a new pension have an annual rule that counts when they have to calculate their pension, so that every year counts. Thus, it is important that those who are out of work for some years because they have care tasks get a free-of-charge earnings for those years. In the existing public interest, there is a best-year rule that applies. That's why we didn't think it was important to go back to before 1992 with a generation of care for those groups, precisely because it's very difficult to document what happened before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e129	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e132	The government parties promised during the election campaign that they would eliminate poverty. Young and elderly people living with the minimum pension live below the defined poverty line, and several of these depend on housing support and social support. The Progress Party therefore believed that the Government would support us when we have repeatedly made proposals for a strong increase in the minimum pension so that individuals can live on their own pensions without being dependent on support. After the social security settlement last year, the minimum pensioners experienced a cut in the housing allowance, which meant that they did not get an increase in purchasing power. I understand that the Council of State cannot give concrete figures, even though he has here given signals that the social security scheme will be good. My question is yes/no question. Can the Council of State promise the more than 200,000 minimum pensioners that, overall, they will have significantly increased purchasing power after this social security settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e139	I am very happy that the questioner does not define whether I have to answer yes or no, so I answer as I intend to answer. The answer to the question put by the representative is that everything indicates that all groups can expect a real wage increase this year. Wage increases are so large - and this gives an estimate of the social security situation, because it follows wage developments - that even if we record price increases in some areas, the overall price increase in 2008 is lower than the total wage increase. Then, normally, everyone can count on a real wage increase. And that's good, positive and great, and it's important that it also concerns the pensioners -- including the minimum pensioners. So there's every reason to stress that I don't agree with the presentation that all the minimum pensioners are poor. It's actually wrong. Many minimum pensioners state that they have a liberal and good economy. It must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e148	The story goes to the next main question - from the representative Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e151	My question goes to Councillor Solhjell. The Vice-Chairman of the Education Association, Per Aahlin, has been quite as open about the situation in school lately. He says, among other things:\t\t You can "I think it's sad. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's goal is for Norway to have the best school in the world. Creating the world's best school without qualified teachers is just nonsense.' It's a recruitment crisis in Norwegian school. It's tried to draw the right and the rest of the opposition's attention to quite a long time. However, all concerns and proposals made have been rejected and voted down by the government parties. It is now reported that there is a shortage of 3,500 teachers, that preschool teachers are on their way into school, and that school owners employ people without approved education. This applies in particular to professional subjects. These, of course, are entitled to take up education. The problem is, according to the Vice President of the Federation of Education, Aahlin, that the requirements are not followed up. This puts the problem of competence and recruitment at school, and it breaks down the status of the teacher and the school. That's the opposite of what we need. The status of the teacher and the school must be increased rapidly, and it is urgent. Several hours at school will require more qualified teachers. Three lost years in school policy is enough. The councils have said that he takes the situation seriously and keeps it under observation. Now, however, is the time for action. What are the five concrete measures taken by the Government to ensure a school of qualified teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e165	Ensuring enough teachers is one of the most important issues in school policy for years to come. That's why we work a lot with both of them. In the long term, we face a major recruitment challenge, including: because many of the teachers are over 55 years of age and will soon retire, and we have too little access to teacher training today. The most important long-term answer is to get to grips with the nature of teacher training and make it even more attractive than today, while at the same time ensuring that the school becomes a more attractive workplace that can recruit over time. But we also have to act quickly and do other important things. Let me give you some examples of things that have been done, things that have been done this year, and things that we'll deal with in the future. Firstly, we have now introduced a requirement to have one year of further education - an in-depth study in key subjects such as Norwegian mathematics and English - in order to be able to teach in the youth sphere. It is important in order to gain the skills of the central subject of youth. We have a large continuing training lift of 375 million. kr in the year that we have also continued from previous years, and similar amounts are used by local authorities. It makes it more attractive to work in school, and it allows teachers to develop further. In addition, we are working on a message about teacher training and other measures that will focus on how to recruit more people for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e174	This government is an expert in big business, but it doesn't come out very much. They talk about ‘one of the most important tasks’ and ‘in the long term’, but this is about solving the problem today. And I can give the Council five concrete measures. He was talking about the level of competence. But there have been no signals from the Government if you want to extend it for the next three years. That's what the opposition wants. Action 2: working with the business community, lecturer 2 positions. Action 3: the cancellation of parts of the student loan for the completion of education for teacher students. Action 4: bonus and working time schemes for teachers over 55 years of age. Action 5: Strengthened school management. The question then arises: Which of these measures will the Council of State address immediately? They're already down in the Storting, but it's pretty likely to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e181	Important measures are being implemented today. So today's main picture is that we have enough qualified teachers, but we have to get the teacher training search up, so that we have enough teachers in the future too, and we have to make sure that many of the teachers who don't work in the school find it attractive and exciting to come back again. This means that continuing training, which we carry out, the possibility of improving skills and the existence of other good conditions, is necessary. There are also other important measures. For example, I agree with the representative that assessing additional opportunities for schoolleaders training is an important measure. Several of these measures will come back soon, when we present a report on quality in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e186	There will be four follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e189	This is a matter that the Progress Party and an overall opposition have raised many times in this Chamber, because we have pointed to the challenge of getting fewer and fewer people who are learning as teachers. We are getting more and more teachers who choose other professions, and we have teachers who now belong to a generation that will soon retire. For the first time, the Council of State is now saying that this is a major recruitment challenge, and I think we should be pleased that the Council of State and the Government are now recognising for once that this is a major recruitment challenge. But it is strange that all the proposals that a single opposition has made in this room are voted down by the government that has Solhjell as the Council of Knowledge, and that the Council of State itself chooses to focus on old actions instead of new ones to address these challenges. How will the Council of State ensure that the quality of initial training is optimised when we are faced with a situation where there are increasing numbers of vacancies in the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e196	Repeatedly, I have said that we are facing a major recruitment challenge in the years to come. It requires us to implement the measures we have already seen, such as better opportunities for continuing training, which makes it more attractive to work in school, and it requires us to work systematically to ensure even better recruitment in the future. Then one of the core questions is teacher training. For too long we have had knowledge that we need to improve teacher training, without it being taken care of. Now we're going through how we can make it more attractive, but also to qualify the candidates who are going to school to become even better teachers. In addition, we need to look at other recruitment tools so that it becomes attractive to work in school, and not least that one can get back to school with many of those who have graduated as teachers but who work elsewhere. It's a big, common challenge that we'll have for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e202	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e205	The Christian People's Party is also concerned with getting good enough teachers. That is why I was very surprised when an overall opposition was ready to continue to invest in continuing education, even though the period is now over, and registered that the government said no to it. We have a huge challenge now. There is talk of a message about the teacher’s training and the role of the teacher. It's too late. We already need to put some immediate action into the teacher training we have, because every year we are now producing teachers who are going out to Norwegian school, but I haven't seen any action to put in immediate action to make any changes that make us get better teachers and more teachers into what is. Rather, as previous respondents have said, the government has said no to recruitment plans, they have said no to both the one and the other. My question is, isn't the right approach now to focus on it and not introduce even more hours in school that will make us even more lacking teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e217	It's completely wrong. On the contrary, it has been implemented and implemented, a series of immediate measures aimed at teacher training, particularly in the light of a critical report on teacher training which came several years ago. My predecessors start a series of trials when it comes to invalid teacher training, how to organise education and training differently and better. We also have a major and important project to guide newcomers in the first few years. Unfortunately, we know that some of the people who start working in the school will stop quite a short time later. One reason is that they get too little and too poor follow-up out in school. That is why it is important and necessary. In the case of continuing education and training, in 2008 the funds for continuing education and training were released in the budget for 2008. To what extent there will be a commitment to continuing education next year, we will return to the budget for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e224	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e227	The council is a general man, so he both will, dreams about it and wants it, but he doesn't. For it is the case in this Chamber that when proposals are made to assure us immediately that the current teacher training follows up the promise of knowledge, it is downrooted by the red-greens. When a proposal for a national recruitment plan is put forward, it is voted down by the red-green ones. When proposals are made to ensure better working conditions for seniors, red-greens vote for them. Then, according to the predecessor, the Council of State came to the covered table. Since the table was covered, this representative's observation is that the council has enormous energy in the kindergarten. Taking the party leader to a place in the East to tell her to sneak up a compulsory school for five-year-olds, the council has energy to do, but to make sure that we recruit enough teachers and promote a national recruitment plan, he doesn't have the energy to do it. When will the Council of State bring together the National Recruitment Plan we need to get enough Norwegian schoolteachers, who build status, who provide systematic further training, and who ensure that seniors get a handshake from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e236	The SV and the Government are lucky to have energy to prioritize both school and kindergarten, not just one of them. That is why we are now actively working on recruitment and implementing a number of measures in the area of teacher training, continuing education and training, this year, and we are working on a big message where we are looking at how the future teacher role and teacher training can be designed to ensure a good recruitment for years to come. In addition, we're forced to think forward. The fantastically important and good offer that children in kindergarten have today, we now know that there is a connection with better learning in school. Children who have gone to kindergarten get better results in reading at school. How are we going to develop this further, so that there is a good supply for everyone on the children's own premises and ensure that there is still good learning in the school? Focusing on both kindergarten, schooling and the recruitment of teachers is necessary if we are to ensure a good schooling in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e243	Bent Höie - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e246	The world’s best school requires the world’s best teachers. The head of the Federation of Education, Helga Hjetland, is quite right when she in today's VG states that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is more concerned with financing his own election campaign than with creating the world's best school. She says, "I feel that the schoolwork is perplexing around Jens Stoltenberg and he is sitting and watching it fall." - It's the description of what people who experience everyday life in Norwegian school experience here and now, today. It is not useful that the Government repeatedly points out that the Government is thinking, that the Government is working on, that the Government is assessing - when Norwegian school today is experiencing a recruitment crisis that will only reinforce itself every year, because there have now been three lost years with SV in the Ministry of Knowledge. When will the Government take over the exposure of the opposition to the Storting and vote in favour of our proposals for: [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e256	Government Board Vegar Solhjell has the floor!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e259	The Prime Minister has opposed the idea of focusing on the school and giving priority to the school. Then the situation is that under the previous government we experienced dramatic cuts in the transfers to the municipalities, which are the ones that finance the schools, with the result that there were fewer teachers compared to eleven years ago in Skule-Noreg. Now these developments have stabilised, and the transfers to the municipalities are strengthened under this government - so the developments have turned around. Then we're going to make a strong commitment to the school today. There will be several hours in childhood, there will be further training for teachers, and there will be higher requirements for the competence of teachers to work at the youth level. We have to do more in the years ahead. We need to be more clear about early efforts, everyone needs to get basic knowledge early, and we need to bet even more on the teachers, who are so important to what students are learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e268	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e272	I also have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. I was amazed when I heard the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Finance's last play. Of all the things it was possible to grasp in the Norwegian school, one would now sneak into forced school start for the five-year-olds in the kindergarten. Then I thought to myself: in all days, is this the first council of states to be able to get on? One thing is the ideology of this, who's responsible for the children, and who's going to decide, and how much mandatory it should be -- there I think the SV and the Christian People's Party are fundamentally disagreeable, so we can leave that debate behind. But does the Minister of Knowledge really think that this will give more glowing and more motivated students? We know today that we have a frightening high drop-out in high school, with unmotivated students, with many school-tired students in high school. I believe this is one of the things we should have taken care of. We often compare with Finland. I know that the Council of State has been on a study trip to Finland, but I wonder if it really has made any impression on him. In Finland, when you are seven years old, you start school and you have a preschool for six-year-olds on a voluntary basis. In the case of school hours per person. years, they have 61 hours less a year -- and that was before the government began to increase. Finland is often considered to have a good knowledge school. So maybe we should look a little bit more at what they're doing. Everything suggests at least that more time does not give more motivation or knowledge. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that this proposal will dampen the rest of the kindergarten for pedagogues. The 0.4-year-olds will be harmed because the nursery has to invest resources in the last year. We believe that the whole kindergarten needs educational follow-up. The whole proposal testifies to an incredibly clever view of knowledge, that it is in kindergarten and school you learn and not elsewhere. SV agreed with us that the six-year-olds should not enter school. What happened to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e285	My visit to Finland was very inspiring, not least when the emphasis they put on in Finland is that young people who need special help and support must get it as early as possible in the kindergarten, that everyone has an iboane apprenticeship and a desire to get out of school, which one must also get as early as possible in kindergarten and early school. This is about recognising the amazing work being done in kindergarten today, where a child's natural curiosity and learning ability is used as a starting point for knowledge, and where one uses the natural situations in which they are, to convey learning and knowledge. So we now know that there's a clear connection between going to kindergarten and later learning. Children who go to kindergarten have better results in reading at the age of five. We know from considerable research that it plays a role to go to kindergarten with a good quality offer. During this period, the government has built tens of thousands of new kindergartens, so that almost everyone - 98.4 pst. - to last year's place. We've seen the price down sharply. It is now possible to give you the right to a children's garden space, while at the same time improving and developing quality. 95 pst. by parents to have their five-year-olds in kindergarten. I believe that we need a debate on further developing this offer towards the next enlargement period, so that we can focus on language stimulation, social skills, etc. for five-year-olds, which provides a good basis for later learning. That offer can apply to everyone, so that everyone gets a good starting point for the start of the school. It will be an important knowledge effort. My basic view is that kids love to learn. Kids love to be stimulated on their own premises. We can make better use of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e296	I feel like I've heard this debate before. That's exactly what we were talking about when the six-year-olds were going to school: we were going to motivate the apprenticeship. We were to use the time and take advantage of it. But what has happened? Now we've been through a lot of coal after the six-year-olds got into school. You can go into any high school and see if there's more motivation. Has it happened that we wanted to happen when the six-year-olds came into school? It's all wrong. If that's the case, now we have 700 million. kr, to which VG has prescribed it - it's not always we're going to trust VG, but we get to take the number we've got from them - this shouldn't have been inserted, for example. in high school to be able to get more motivated students there, get more teachers in who can create something? I think this is going to be a completely wrong priority. Does not the Council of State think that there are other things that are more important to grasp before another extra coal is introduced into school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e303	We have major challenges in the youth school and further education. It's a far too high non-response. That's pretty dramatic numbers. Many fell mentally from during youth school and did not get the practical challenges they should have had, and do not take any motivation into account. But I don't think that's because they've been getting too much knowledge and learning from previous years, but because they often bring too little of it. Many students in the youth school report that they are getting new eight grades that lack entirely elementary reading and computing skills and social skills. Lessons from Finland and other countries indicate that we need to address the challenges at an early stage. Everyone who wears something needs to be followed up and helped. Therefore, the kindergarten effort is so important for the knowledge and learning effort in the school. But we also need to strengthen the efforts of the early school years, especially against language development and reading, which are so important to everything else. I think that if you can give this stimulus in a good way, it can give us more knowledge, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e308	There will be follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e311	Energy focus is important for a Council of States of Knowledge. The Council of State itself says that there are major challenges within the existing school cycle. The level of knowledge of high school graduates is deficient in many areas. He said it himself right now. Then we get into a situation where the Council of State, instead of focusing on knowledge in school, combines kindergarten and school in a mandatory preschool for five-year-olds. It's a strange energy focuser. The board believes kindergarten should be kindergarten, school should be school. In order to improve the quality of the school, the State Council itself has announced that he will be submitting his own quality report in June. I'm worried if the quality message in June is that we're going to mix kindergarten and school instead of focusing on the quality of school, where we're going to primarily disseminate knowledge. I have a direct challenge for the Council of State: Can he confirm that it is not the government's policy to mix kindergarten and school in a forced preschool for five-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e320	We just have to have more ambitions than the Progress Party here has. Learning starts long before the child starts school, and continues long after it has finished compulsory school. Therefore, we need to think about the knowledge policy of kindergarten through elementary school, continuing education, higher education, continuing education and lifelong learning. We need energy to think about all the parts of that race, not just one part of it. The ball is the government's main priority when it comes to improvement, because we've got results that make us have to deal with it. We are submitting a quality report in a month, with extensive efforts on the school run. There is no current government policy, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, to introduce a mandatory pre-sole offer for five-year-olds during this period, but there will be an important and necessary discussion into the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e327	Gunnar Gundersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e330	When this proposal was presented in Dagbladet, the council said some interesting things. He said that there should be a requirement for skilled educators, that the promises should not be fulfilled until the end of the next growing period - then he is in his ace, since he is the next person who is going to comply with this - and that he has thought a lot about how the offer should be designed. So he says this in a situation where preschool teachers are in primary school, so there is a lack of competence in kindergarten. There's a lack of teachers already, and if we go back to kindergarten for preschool teachers, it doesn't get any better in school. I could have thought of a knowledge minister who had rather thought a lot about how he would fulfill the promises and expectations that have already been created, and meet the challenges that we face in school today, instead of creating new expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e335	I can comfort the representative that I have the capacity to think a lot about many different things. I repeat, we have to have bigger ambitions than just thinking about one thing. Education and knowledge are about the entire course, from children to further education and lifelong learning. Then, in a short time, the government will present a big message about quality in school. We also present a big message about language, which will contain extensive measures when it comes to language betting in schools, because we have discovered that reading skills in Norway are too bad for students. It is very serious because it will have consequences for all other subjects and for the possibilities of working life and adult life for children later. But in addition, we need a discussion about how we can make use of kindergartens as a basis for learning better than we already do. Right has a good tradition of being a brake pad when it comes to the development of kindergartens, and it's not surprising that they've intended to continue with it. But that discussion is necessary for all the others who are occupied with knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e342	President: Odd Einar Dørum - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e346	What we're facing right now is SV in a known freestyle. Instead of doing the job where he is now, as a school minister, the Council of State dreams of a compulsory school obligation for five-year-olds - 12 hours a week is what you're supposed to have. If you're going to call it what it is, it's SV's known distrust that parents can set up and cooperate. When the Council of State is on this dream tour with the Minister of Finance and the party leader, he fails to provide the dream of those who are in Norwegian school today - who, according to the Prime Minister, are going to get the world's best school. He doesn't make sure we get school buildings that are fresh. He has removed the interest compensation scheme that could have provided it. He does not make a national recruitment plan for teachers, which everyone wants. He does not focus on systematic further training of teachers, as our neighbouring country does, and which is carried out in Oslo in negotiations between the Left and the City Council, but which the red-green parties are unable to do. When will the actions come and the heart come also in the case of school, and not just the kindergarten--for there's the heart full, that's what we all record?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e353	The actions are there, and there are going to be more. A total of NOK 375 million is spent on continuing training of teachers throughout the country, as well as many municipalities and counties. So it's Dørum asking, it's already happening today, and we'll come back to the budget with any bets for later years. There will be five new schoolrooms in the first to fourth stages in Norwegian, math and English from the fall, which will give several hours to the whole central subject. We have introduced stricter requirements for in-depth training for young people and a number of other initiatives that are just making sure that we are gradually getting a better education. Other things will come in the quality message later, because the bet you have made now, have been important, but there will be even greater demands on the school. But in addition to that, we have to look at a babysitting facility, a preschool facility in charge of kindergarten, because we know that kindergarten plays a role for learning and for the results of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e358	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e361	The Christian People's Party is concerned that children should be children, that kindergarten should be kindergarten and not primarily preschool, and that learning should take place primarily through play and free activities. The Christian People's Party believes that the students come quickly enough on the school bench and in organized training. The system we have for today's six-year-olds was an exciting project, there's no reason to lower the school further. I record that the Minister of Knowledge has drawn up a debate that can be understood so that it will go from a right to a nursery place to an obligation to a nursery place. In addition, he talks about the content of kindergarten: there will be more focus on learning, the ‘school’ learning. Many of us see it as a sneaking-in of a compulsory school start. Is it so to understand that the red-green strategy in the future is to introduce an obligation to kindergarten, which gets more ‘school’ content, i.e. school start for five-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e368	I'm against a previous level start. I'm also against a sobbing start of the previous level. On the other hand, I am very much in favour of the nursery service we have, and I believe that it can be done even better and apply even more. One has to ask himself the question: Does the Christian People's Party think that children today are not having children? 95 pst. by all parents, children should go to kindergarten, which already has an offer that focuses on learning. Play is the natural method and access to learning for young children. Everyone who has young children knows a lot about this. In addition, it is that incentivising language development in the natural situation of children is in, and in other ways use kindergarten as an arena for learning, it is already happening today, but we can develop the supply even more and provide a good basis for starting school to even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e373	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e376	I have a question for the Grande Røys Council. On 13 March this year, the Left held a well-attended consultation on the Data Storage Directive here at Stortinget. There were many independent participants from business, academia, the police, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and Data Protection. Of course, the Data Protection Authority was present; they have a key role to play in important debates on privacy challenges. Through the Official Journal of Bergen and Nettavisen, it has been found that the Director of the Data Protection Authority, Georg Apenes, has been punished by the Ministry after the hearing because he expressed the opinion of the Data Protection Authority on the matter. Apenes writes in a letter to the ministry - which is among the public letters: ‘The management of this case may leave the impression that the Ministry of Justice is not familiar with the independent role of the Data Protection Authority and the intended independent vote in matters where the Ministry has opinions other than the Data Protection Authority. The procedure in this case seems to have the aim of influencing how I and the Data Protection Agency as an institution for the future present our views and address our arguments.’ As this State Council is responsible for the Data Protection Authority, I wonder if she is familiar with the important role of the Data Protection Authority in terms of data protection, and whether she is familiar with this way of dealing with supervision, supervision that is to have an independent role in relation to the Ministry, and whether she is satisfied with the way this has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e390	I am absolutely very pleased with the role of the Data Protection Authority in the public debate on privacy. This is actually in their instructions. It is also the case that politicians should not in any way instruct the Data Protection Authority in individual cases or individual decisions. It says the Data Protection Agency quite freely and autonomously - as they should. I have been very busy in my reign to strengthen the Data Protection Authority's ability to be a stronger spokesman for privacy. We've strengthened the data protection work by over 10 million. kr. Not all of them have gone to the Swedish Data Protection Agency, because we have also created a Data Protection Commission, in close cooperation with, among others. Left. But it is quite obvious that we are totally dependent on the fact that the Data Protection Authority has a strong, free and clear role and talks about privacy, but I also want many more people to be in that arena. For this I am also pleased that the Left organized the seminar, which was well attended, and where my department was present. Because we need to debate different issues and how they affect the privacy of each one. Then I would like to say - without going into any detail about the content of the leadership talks that my department has with its leaders in the media - that it is common to have such conversations once a year. Then one takes up several matters, but the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has in no way felt that one has given someone retribution in any conversation. On the contrary, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has great support in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration for its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e399	I am not familiar with what is shown in conversations, but there are some public correspondence regarding this matter. One of the letters is from the Departmental Councils of the Ministry of Justice, where he writes to the Director of Data Protection: “The intention to raise the matter has been achieved with this, and we do not see the need to proceed with the matter.” What I'm asking is, what is the purpose of dealing with the matter, what is the achievement, and what was it that you wanted to achieve in trying to correct a free oversight in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e409	Exchanges of letters between the Data Protection Authority and the Ministry of Justice almost require the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice to take responsibility for the reply. I can't easily answer for that. I haven't been part of that correspondence, it's outside my area. My task is to strengthen the Data Protection Authority and the work they do in the area of privacy. We have. We have had great cooperation in these years, including: with campaigns aimed at children and young people, which we have also expanded with a film project that we launched in March, and which we will have new projects in connection with beyond the fall, including an art project. We have been recognized abroad for the way we have dealt with the problem with children and young people. I will continue to strengthen my work with the Swedish Data Protection Authority, to which I give a great deal of recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e414	There'll be three follow-up questions-- first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e418	There may seem to be different views in the Government on how the Data Protection Authority should operate. The Progress Party has supported all of its time the Data Protection Authority and not least the Apenes leadership of the Data Protection Authority, which in our view should be a vigil for the privacy of people. When we record that it happens, what happens from the government's side, and what the state council says, I'm a little surprised that there's so different views of this from two state councils. I note that Heidi Grande Røys is the main controller of the Data Protection Agency, and I am then a little surprised that this Council of State has let the Minister of Justice lease the reactions to the Data Protection Agency. My question is: will the Council of State now confirm that it will consider the role of the Data Protection Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e425	The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is the Administrative Board of the Data Protection Authority and has several meetings with the Data Protection Authority in one year, both formal and informal. I have invited the Data Protection Agency to several meetings to have professional discussions on various issues that are being dealt with, or international trends we see attacking privacy, and want to right the Data Protection Authority's voice when it comes to how we as the Department can deal with individual matters. I think it's exciting to have a computer monitor that has the role of being a free and independent body, highly up-to-date and up-to-date professionally, and that gives me challenges and good insights into how we can approach the privacy challenges from a political point of view. So I think I'm going to say - I've expressed it before - that there has also been a different attitude in the Progress Party to the privacy area, among other things. one in the crime area has not always focused on privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e434	Bent Höie - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e437	I expect the Minister of Renewal to deal with this immediately with the Ministry of Justice and get cleaned up, so that we are sure that we have free and independent data surveillance that can participate in the social debate without having any ties. The debate on privacy goes every day, and the Government has set down a privacy commission, but it does little to help when privacy loses the daily fight. The Government has sent to the hearing a new regulation for the Credit Authority’s ability to collect traffic data. Among other things, the credit supervision may collect telecommunications information without the data being assumed to be relevant to evidence. The collection includes traffic data for both suspected and witnesses, without notice or consent. This means that this agency is given greater powers than the police. Will the Council of State take responsibility and put its foot down for this regulation, which is, in fact, a sneaking-in of the Data Storage Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e446	We have free and independent data supervision, and we're going to continue to have that. Nothing that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has communicated to the supervisory authority has changed. On the contrary, as I have said, we have strengthened the privacy area by over 10 million. kr at the time we have ruled. The Data Protection Authority has got a good deal of it through the projects we have supported them in. We will continue to support the Data Protection Authority in their various approaches to privacy. We have several issues for debate that challenge privacy - yes. The matter referred to by the representative Bent Höie is his responsibility to the Minister of Finance, and I entrusted her with the argument. So it's quite obvious that when we discuss such issues in the government, we have different approaches when it comes to getting them enlightened, but when the government makes decisions on such matters, the whole government is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e455	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e458	This case has shown that the Ministry of the Government has broken the Public Administration Act by not filing a letter to the Ministry. I understand that the department has also accepted it. That's wrong enough, and that's the responsibility of the Council of State. Much worse is it that, following a case in which it raises uncertainty about whether the Data Protection Authority and the Chief Data Protection Officer are hereafter dared to say what is right in the fight for privacy. It is attached to this case after this round of the Questionnaire, where the Ministry of Justice has taken action and has stated after a meeting that the purpose has been achieved, that we do not know what purpose has been achieved. As long as it is suspended in the air, there is uncertainty as to whether the Data Protection Authority has in any way been restricted in its watchkeeping role. The Council of State has a job to do to clear up the Ministry of Justice and adequately explain and document to the Storting that the uncertainty many of us feel that the Data Protection Authority has reduced its independence here is being cleared up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e465	To the extent that someone creates uncertainty about the free and independent role of the Data Protection Authority, it is at least not the Council of States. On the contrary, I have repeatedly asked questions from representatives in Stortinget that the Data Protection Authority has, and will always have a strong and independent role, at least as long as we are in government, and as long as I am in this chair. I have strengthened the Data Protection system's muscles so that they can do a bigger and more important job. I have seen down a data protection commission in good cooperation with the Left to get more actors on this track, which unfortunately the Data Protection Authority was very alone in the past. Now there's more on this path, which means that we get personal effects in many more forums, including in Stortinget. We need that. And we need, as I said, the independent role of the Data Protection Authority. Then someone gets the same or not as they say, but the point is that they've been assigned to be independent and pointed out consequences for the privacy of different issues. Then the government gets to take the argument into account in the different matters we're going to decide, and then we're going to see what the outcome of them is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e472	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e475	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. We are currently experiencing a dramatic increase in the influx of asylum to Norway. Yes, I would argue that Norwegian asylum policy is in fact out of control when we experience a doubling in the asylum flow to Norway compared to the corresponding period last year. Unlike in the past, there is no such thing as the level of conflict out there in the world that can explain the increased inflow. On the contrary, it seems obvious that a very liberal asylum policy conducted by the red-green government, coupled with a situation where the rest of Europe is tightening up its asylum policies, leads to increased influxes to Norway. The revised framework outlines some measures to meet this challenge. There are measures on the entertainment requirement, which were already adopted in the context of new foreign law, the Dublin II Regulation, which is a matter of course to be followed, there is an increased pressure on return, which should also be a matter of course to be followed, more border controls, which should also be obvious - a number of measures of a cosmetic nature and which will not help the situation in Norway with the increased influx of asylum into Norway. What would have worked, on the other hand, was the introduction of stricter requirements to stay in Norway on the basis of an asylum application. So these other proposals that are being revised will not help at all. Will the Council of State take the initiative to tighten up Norwegian asylum policy, so that happinesses who do not have a basis for being allowed to stay in Norway will not be able to abuse the system and stay here on the wrong basis, thus reducing the asylum flow to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e486	Let me just first say that it is not the ‘maintenance requirement’ that is tightened up into revision, it is the maintenance requirement, which is two different things, especially for those that apply, I think. I disagree with the questioner that not a substantial part of the explanation for the increased influx of asylum seekers may be that the level of conflict outside the world is increasing. If you look at the countries from which we receive the most asylum seekers, it is Iraq, Afghanistan, Chechnya and Sri Lanka - that is, that type of country. A lot can be said about developments in Iraq, but the problem is that many things go from bad to worse. As a result, more people in the world are fleeing, and several of them are also coming to Norway. It's an important explanation of why. But then part of the problem is that many who come -- and what suggests being an increasing proportion -- are also people who don't need protection. I am promoting that claim by seeing that the rate of rejection in the UDI rises. Several are refused; others do not need protection. What the government is very concerned about is giving a signal to the world that there have been no changes in Norwegian asylum policy that make there other reasons than the need for protection to stay here. Therefore, it would be unfortunate both for Norway and for that country to come here and apply for asylum on a different basis from the need for protection. By giving some signals, the government wants to clarify it. However, those in need of protection have every reason to come to Norway, and they will receive a good treatment here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e501	It is not that the measures outlined by the Government in the revised, including the maintenance requirement under the new Foreign Affairs Act, will lead to a reduction in the flow of asylum to Norway, precisely because these are cosmetic changes that will not lead to a change in reality compared to the influx we experience. Now the government has got a lot of criticism because you have to use tent clays, which is a clean and cut necessity when the red-green government has lost control of asylum policy. The need to place people in tent camps is, of course, not an optimal situation. So I challenge the Council of State on another point: what about using asylum reception abroad? Will the Council consider buying places abroad to place asylum seekers in reception there? Then you can save both money and get better living conditions for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e511	What is strange in the debate that has taken place in the wake of the increased influx of people who want to seek asylum in Norway is that the measures we have now promoted are described by the representative Amundsen as «cosmetic changes», while I see that yesterday's daily newspaper in the chair writes that we «close the borders». Both descriptions of reality can at least not be correct, and my opinion is that both descriptions of reality are incorrect. These are neither cosmetic changes nor border closures. There is a signal in the world that the basis for seeking asylum in Norway is the need for protection. And the worst thing that can happen to people is that for different reasons, for example. poverty, refugees to the western world, seeking residence in Norway and being denied because there is no need for protection. Then, as returned, you will come back poorer than ever. It is an accident for those affected by it, and therefore it is important to correct an impression through some measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e516	It's going to be four follow-up questions-- first Bjørg Tørersdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e519	The Christian People's Party is committed to a fair asylum policy. That is, we give protection to those people who are in need and risk being persecuted and harassed in the country they came from. We know that very many come from conflict areas, where it is difficult, and seek shelter in Norway. The Christian People's Party is committed to having an effective return on unfounded applications, and it is right, as the Council of State said, that now the influx has increased. But one also rejects several, and one rejects them with unfounded applications. It supports the Christian People's Party. But the Christian People's Party is critical of the increased influx, is what one does in terms of the increased need to obtain lodging and a place to be for those who come to Norway, and now the Government has been a little diffuse as to why it has started planning to accommodate tents. I would like the Council of State to respond to the question of whether a person is capable of getting something different and more valuable for those who come here than a place in a tent, which is more suitable for speeders and youth on the road. And the second question is, what is the rationale for using tents? I hope you don't do that bad for those who are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e526	I am pleased with that question, because then I also get the opportunity from the Stortings pulpit to stress that if we have to use the tent -- and that's still a if -- it's because we have no alternative. Now there is a critical situation in the transit reception, that is, where you are the first days and weeks to complete the asylum interview, before you are placed in an ordinary reception. On Tanum, the capacity is now detonated. We are working intensively to find alternative solutions, we want to get Dikemark, but we have problems getting permission from Asker Municipality, we are looking for opportunities for set-aside, etc. But if there's no alternative, I think it's better to place young, lonely, healthy men in tents for a few days than just to have to reject them on the border because we don't have any place to do with them while we do the asylum interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e531	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e534	I don't share Amundsen's view of reality. In the last ten years, the number of asylum seekers in Norway has ranged from 17 000 to almost 1,500. In the last year, 46,400 asylum seekers have arrived in the Nordic region, and all of them, most of them, 36,000 of them, have been accepted in Sweden. And if you think that there is no reason for an increase in asylum applications now, you have to be among those who skip the foreign drug in the newspapers. It is at least quite amazing when you have voted in favour of the war in Iraq. What I'm asking is: why is it that the Council of State shares the reality of the Advancement Party and the Right here and does not support the reality of its own government parties, that this actually goes up and down with the international trends, and does it not necessarily come from being so liberal? Why does he not rely on his own governmental parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left in reality here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e539	I'm trying to rely on what is at all times the fact of inflow, and the assessment that the Government is making on the basis of the need for action based on our analysis of reality. I agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that there are many conflicts in the world that make it natural with an increased influx of refugees into Europe, and we will deal with that in line with the best Norwegian traditions. But it is not a good thing for anyone, neither for those involved, nor for Norway and Europe, if we also experience an increased influx of people who do not need protection. This is something the representative of Trine Skei Grande can do very much about, because the Left has also been in government and rejected applications from clearly groundless asylum seekers. So that's where I thought we had a fairly common sense of reality, that it's those who need protection that are going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e544	Kari Lise Holmberg--to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e547	According to the director of the UDI, the large increase in the influx of asylum is not due to international conditions. Today's newspaper says she's writing it. It also agrees with the Right, because we believe that the reason why asylum policy is now out of control is the Government's own policy. On the right, the Government has consistently opposed the fact that asylum policy has been facilitated by the Government. We warned against lowering the threshold for the conversion of decisions, and we warned against the introduction of the three-year rule. We have warned against giving people false hopes, we have warned that signals out to the outside world of a smarter Norwegian asylum policy than the neighbouring countries are leading will cause more people from poor countries to sell everything they own and come to Norway, and that only makes it worse. In particular, we have warned that adults would use the children as doorkeepers to get footholds in the country. We've unfortunately got it right -- it shows the numbers now, and the government's genius has led to twice as many coming here. [[The President announces Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen]] [[the President re-announces the Council of State]] Will the Council of State reverse the asylum policy back to the one we had earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e552	The Council of State gets the floor!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e556	In fact, more people get protection - in terms of the number of people, not the proportion of applicants. This is because more applicants come from areas where conflicts are serious, and many of those coming need protection. But then we see that the proportion of asylum seekers who are rejected is increasing, and that suggests that, in addition to the more people who are in need of protection, there will also be more people who do not have that need. And then there's a complicated world out there we're going to try to give a signal to, that they need protection, they're going to be able to get protection in Norway, but they're not supposed to come, they're going to get rejected, and they're going to be transported out. I hope that it will be possible for the Government to have a good dialogue with the Right on what signals we are going to give to get this out in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e561	Ib Thomsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e564	I now see that the Workers' Party and the Government are strongly pressured to establish more asylum recipients in Norway, after the large influx we see today. However, UDI has almost unlimited power with regard to the location of new asylum recipients, despite the fact that such reception has a significant impact on the community. It is a serious violation of local democracy, even though the Labour Party and the Government have said that they want and will strengthen local democracy. So it seems that the Workers' Party and the Government's main argument against local veto law is that state control is more effective, because then the state can quickly increase capacity as the flow increases, without the local democracy having an impact. The party of progress, on the other hand, is for local democracy and sees its own value. My question is: will the Council of State work to ensure that the UDI respects locally adopted decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e569	It is not that local democracy is without effect. What we are now seeing about the problems of establishing Dikemark in the municipality of Asker as a transit reception is precisely that the objections of the municipality of Asker have led to the fact that what we planned to establish early in February is still not established. It's this kind of dialogue with the municipalities like as a result, the UDI has reduced its plans to establish a 300-place transit reception in Dikemark to 100 places. So UDI is in dialogue with the municipalities about setting up asylum recipients. At the same time, however, it must be that Norway has an international obligation to accept the asylum seekers who come here and to give their case a good, individual treatment. Norway, as a nation, has to have an apparatus to receive those who come here, and it must finally be such that the country has the opportunity to cut through to ensure that it has enough reception facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e574	Let's go to the last main question - Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e577	We cannot let a whole spontaneous hour of danger pass without the Council of State being confronted with the single area where the Government has undoubtedly failed the most, namely when it comes to combating poverty. My question therefore goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. One of the most concrete and binding promises made by the red-greens in the 2005 election campaign was the abolition of poverty in Norway. The country's current finance minister, Kristin Halvorsen, who is sitting on the money bag, actually went so far as to say that poverty could be eliminated with a pen stroke, that it was just political will it was on. Now the situation is that the government in which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen participates sits on the largest purse that some Norwegian government has ever had at its disposal - almost 160 000 million. kr in increased tax revenue, inter alia. Thanks to the Right Growth Promotion tax policy of the previous period. In addition, the red-green government has a majority, can do just as it pleases, and has no one else to blame. Many had therefore hoped, believed and expected that the sitting government would do something for the poorest, those sitting at the very bottom of the table. But then, the promise of abolishing poverty was almost unremarkable and suddenly transformed into a goal. The working line is well and good and has the full support of the Right, but what about those who do not have a chance in the labour market because of the intoxication, psychiatry and lack of basic skills? They're stuck in a hopeless life situation because of the government's paralysis of action. What will the Government actually do to lift those sitting at the bottom of the table out of a hopeless life situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e586	These are important questions. I am very pleased that the representative Martin Engeset says that the Right supports the line of work. It is important to analyse: who are the poor? The poor have many faces, but to the extent that poor people in Norway have one common feature, they are out of work for some reason. If you're working in Norway, like most people, you'll have a salary -- because we have long traditions with good collective agreements around it -- that will enable you to take care of yourself financially. Therefore, the main strategy to combat poverty must be to get people to work. Then I am absolutely sure that you will wear different glasses to analyze the results, but the fact is that since the government change in the autumn of 2005, 200,000 more people have come to work. Now the government won't take all credit for it, but the government will take no credit for it. That's why I'm very concerned to say that claiming that we haven't fought poverty in a very effective way since the government change is wrong, in my opinion. When you manage to lead e.g. a labour market policy that makes so many people come to work, it is clear that we are fighting poverty. So the question is, now that we've gotten so far that we're down to just 40,000 unemployed, just 30,000 who live on economic social assistance, how are we going to move on to get them to work as well? This is the main response to the NAV strategy, the qualification programme - putting in place additional measures for those groups that are still out of work. It's completely possible, and we see that the so-called marginal groups are now going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e595	It is true that every government must be measured by its results, even in relation to the promises and guarantees given. It is interesting to hear the council boasting that many people have come to work. That's all reason to rejoice, but I think the explanation is completely different from the government -- what it's done. We are in a situation in Norway where 600 000-700 000 people in working age are out of work. It may not be so much to be proud of and boast of. When we have an acute shortage of labour, but are unable to raise those groups that sit at the bottom of the table, and which have a hopeless life situation, into the labour market, in a situation where we have had the longest and strongest economic recovery in Norway in modern times, I may not think that the government should be so very high in terms of its own results. Then I think it's time to get a little more humble and admit that you haven't done very well in the individual area where you went top of the track and promised the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e602	I'm very surprised if the answer that I gave in the first place is considered to be very high. I tried to give a fairly sober analysis of the fact that the main challenge of combating poverty is getting people to work. Then we don't have to argue about who has the credit for it-- let's now it's right here and now. In fact, when 200,000 more people come to work, we've been fighting poverty in a very active and good way. Then get the honor that should be honored. But I agree with the representative Engeset that that means we're not in the goal. That is why we are now in the midst of the greatest reform that this society has ever implemented, the NAV reform. That's why we're now using billions of dollars to make NAV work, we're putting all the new measures into action, so that in the future the welfare system can help even better and even more than the 200 000 that we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e607	There will be two follow-up questions - first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e610	Kristin Halvorsen said in the election campaign that poverty could be eliminated with a pen stroke. I do not know if her pen has gone out of ink, but the pen cover has been missing, and almost nothing has happened. The government has presented a poverty report with some measures, such as the workline and the Qualifications Programme, which are good. However, the problem is the lack of measures and, not least, the lack of requirements which lead to the opposite of eradicating poverty. Because, according to the Central Statistical Office, there is growth in the number of poor people. Many who are categorised as poor are drug users, social welfare recipients and, in fact, some minor pensioners. When drug users who want and are motivated for detoxification have to wait for months in line for treatment, when the demand for social assistance recipients to stand up at eight o’clock in the morning is cancelled, and not least when the minimum pensioners have a pension well below the poverty line, and in all likelihood, what does the Council of State intend to do to reverse this trend with more poor people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e618	One of the biggest challenges in combating poverty is that it is part of the groups to which the representative Svendsen refers, among others. social welfare recipients, where we see that there are many who have lived through many years of economic social assistance, and we see that there is an overrepresentation of people who are struggling with drug problems and mental problems. And it's just to try to tailor an offer to these groups that the government, in good cooperation with the Stortinget, has invested so much in getting up a qualification program where you can combine qualification measures, training measures, with treatment. You can treat your problems as part of a qualification program. I now spend a lot of time and effort getting the Qualification Program started in the Municipality of Norway and in the NAV offices. It's demanding, and it takes time. So far we don't have the world's best result to refer to, but I'm very optimistic that it's now getting loose, so we can see that relatively many are starting up on this program.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e625	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e628	Whether or not the Government has granted money, whether or not unemployment has fallen and many things have gone in the right direction, it is a fact that there is one group in particular that we should worry about, and that the Council of State should take even more into account, and that is the young unemployed and the young people outside the labour market. Very often it's the same people who have dropped out of school, who have never actually been to work, we find in the statistics as social welfare recipients or as young disabled people. Unfortunately, we have not managed to solve the challenges for this group. I want to challenge the Council of State to take new steps to see the relationship between ‘drop-outs’ in high school and those who are out of work a few years later. Is it possible to work together to get some targeted actions for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e635	I believe that the Qualification Programme is a very important instrument for that group as well. I am very busy working together between the follow-up service in high school and the NAV office, precisely so that young people who drop out of high school will not go on for a long time without active follow-up. So there's a question of whether that follow-up is going to happen in high school or in NAV; I think we have to deal with that for each one. But that's how the Qualification Program can be a very good alternative to catching up with young people who have fallen out. They will then receive a security of income, but will have to participate in activities that are targeted towards work. The few results we have from the Qualification Programme so far indicate that it works very well for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e642	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e647	There will be one change in the question list, and the President will refer in that context to the paper distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 4, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, lapses when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e659	‘In the last 30 years, the fishing industry has had to share the sea areas with the oil industry. Fishermen have shown great tolerance for this because they have seen that oil production has been important for the welfare development of the whole country, including along the coast. Now also comes the sea windmill industry and will be able to push fisheries forward. Can the Council of State guarantee that state-funded wind turbines will not divert the fisheries from the fishing banks, for example: by establishing a national plan for which sea areas are to be opened up for wind turbines?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e671	To respond to the last, the government has committed itself through the climate agreement to create a national strategy for power generation from offshore wind power and other marine renewable energy sources. We're following this up. This work will also focus on the spatial aspects of offshore wind power and the concessional approach to be taken to ensure official control of which areas can be developed and to ensure that such development takes place in a way that takes into account other interests, including fisheries, and I could also mention shipping. Furthermore, offshore energy production is a separate investigation theme under sub-research petroleum and energy in the ongoing work on the overall management plan for the Norwegian Sea. This investigation is now open to wide public consultation. Offshore energy production will also be included in the work on the North Sea management plan in an appropriate manner. Furthermore, I can assure the representative that the State will take an active role in clarifying the relevant areas for offshore energy production. All relevant sectoral interests will be involved in such work and transparency and consultation will be emphasised. There is too much evidence to suggest that any offshore offshore wind turbines will become relatively flexible with regard to location, which may offer similar opportunities to adapt installations to other considerations. Offshore energy production is an exciting concept, which can have a significant impact on Norwegian energy production and exports, and not least on Norwegian technological and industrial development. Whether offshore energy production can be realised and can provide a seed bottom as a new Norwegian offshore industry, the time will have to show. However, I have great faith that it is possible to achieve a good co-existence between fisheries and energy production by being aware of the challenges of such co-existence already at the beginning of the process of establishing a legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e684	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State has previously said that sea wind turbines will lead to a lower level of conflict, because no one sees them. So today’s windmills have such a technology that they can’t stand on larger seas. It may be possible in the future, but today they cannot stand on larger seas, they must stand on sea grounds - grounds that are largely similar to fish banks. Then my question is: does the Council of State understand that when the Council of State says that no one sees these wind turbines, it may be appropriate to provoke an entire profession, a profession that contributes to the creation of value in Norwegian society unsubsidized, in the order of NOK 100 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e693	Let me just first stress that I experience it so that I have good dialogue with the fishing interests on these issues, and I am definitely concerned that the fishermen's interests should be taken care of in this process. It's important when we discuss seamills, that we distinguish between bottom-mounted installations and floating installations. From a perspective of the future, I have good faith that we should be able to use liquid seamills. They'll be far more flexible than the bottom-solid mills will be. I can assure the representative that we must take good care of fishing interests in this important work in the future, and we must have close dialogue with them, so that we can achieve the coexistence that is necessary and that we have succeeded in doing so, I would say, to a very great extent within the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e702	Dialogue and involvement of other sector interests and industries, co-existence, has probably also been an ambition for seismic shooting in Northland VII and Troms II. I interpret the Council of State as having ambitions to facilitate a much lower level of conflict in sea wind turbines than has been seen to have developed in these areas outside the West and Lofoten. I thank you for that, and would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that there is the ambition and a goal that the Government will place great emphasis on in the further work on sea windmills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e707	I can assure the representative that we are doing everything possible to reduce the level of conflict now in Northland VII and Troms II, and we are actively dealing with the situation that exists in this area. Then I am very pleased that the Progress Party is now showing a considerable reluctance to the fishermen's interests. We have experienced well in the case of oil, that it is not necessarily the fisheries interests that have been the highest on the agenda of the Progress Party. The Progress Party wants growth in oil extraction without geographical constraints, and they further believe - and their programme says - that increased oil activity is compatible with fisheries interests. If the questions that the representative Lien is now asking about fishing interests and co-existence, are also based on the approach of the Advance Party to petroleum, I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e719	Let me just first confirm that my question is consistent with the game program, just as the previous questioner's question was. My question is: ‘A number of coal and gas power projects have been launched in Norway, including Hammerfest Energi’s project at Melkøya, Skagerak Energi in Grenland, Sargas coal power plants at Husnes and Industrikraft Møre in Fränna. These could contribute to a broader commitment to CO2 capture and storage, but all gaps in the explanation of the framework conditions and state contribution on the CO2 side. When will the Government provide predictable guidelines on how the Government manages projects beyond Mongstad and Kårstø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e736	Through the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has set itself a very ambitious goal for the investment in environmentally friendly energy. In addition to the commitment to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, the Government's ambition is to help us find the best solutions for the capture and storage of CO2. The Soria Moria Declaration provides the framework for this work. It's called: ‘By means of economic instruments and by investing in new technologies, we will ensure that new gas power concessions are based on CO2 removal.’ This is the basis for the State’s commitment to the establishment of CO2 management installations in the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad. A main objective of the Mongstad and Kårstø investment is to promote technology development and reduce CO2 capture and storage costs. The development of cost-effective technologies is essential for CO2 capture and storage to be a good instrument in the fight against global warming. Through this commitment, we are committed to ensuring the development of the best possible technology so that CO2 capture and storage can become a real alternative, national and international. By ensuring that we secure experience and knowledge from the ongoing projects, the investment will also benefit new projects. Furthermore, the framework for the Authority's contribution to research, development and demonstration projects on CO2 capture and storage technologies is well established through the CLIMIT programme. The return on the Gas Technology Fund of more than 80 million. kr per year shall be used to support projects for the development and demonstration of CO2 management technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e776	I was really standing here waiting for the answer to the question, because what the government is doing on Kårstø and Mongstad is well known. It's really discussed the Stortinget, at least in the case of Mongstad. Kårstø we have never had a real case about. It's also known that the government itself says it has ambitious goals. The problem here is that it has absolutely unpredictable and unexplained instruments for other projects. When Skagerak Energi wants to build a gas power plant in Grenland, when Industrikraft Møre wants to build in Middle Norway, they don't know what it means in concrete politics when the council says they're going to make a government contribution. There is no one who can plan a project with a promise of a state contribution when one does not know how large this is, either in percent or in dollars and cents. That is precisely what needs to be clarified if we are to get actors who are willing to come up with other projects. Does the Council of State here say that until Kårstø and Mongstad are realised and evaluated, is it not desirable with other gas power projects? Or does the Council of State want one to try to build gas power plants elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e785	It is absolutely necessary that we have a realistic approach to these issues. And what do I add to it? Well, in that I add that we per. currently does not have technology that can be purchased in a store and applied to any gas power plant, coal power plant or similar. We are simply there in the process that we are dependent on technology development. Technological development is not something to be decided upon. Technology needs to be developed over time. That is why the full-scale plant on Kårstø is important, so it is not least the test centre on Mongstad that is absolutely crucial. We have to allow ourselves to go step by step in this process. In fact, today we cannot go to the store and buy CO2 management technology. The government can't do that, none of the companies that have been mentioned here can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e793	This is like hearing the 2005 Progress Party, when the Government decided that by 2009 there would be a full-scale sewage treatment plant at Kårstø. We then pointed out that that technology does not exist, and therefore it is irresponsible for a government to demand that that technology should be put in place. Then the government itself has gradually seen the light. A realistic approach is very important, but then the government has to clarify to all other actors who think, want or consider building gas power plants, and say what kind of requirements it has. Should there be CO2 cleaning at start-up, as this State Council has previously said - which is currently confirmed will not be realistic for a long time yet - or should one be able to escape this requirement because a wish to try to realize gas power plants? As I understand the Council of State, the Council of State here says that the requirement that she herself has made about cleaning at start-up is not feasible. What the Council of State actually says is that under the regime of this government it will not be possible for any actors besides Kårstø and Mongstad to build gas power plants. Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e805	It is absolutely right that the Government and the Advance Party have quite different approaches to this issue. The government has had and has strong ambitions in this area. In the long run, we're going to drive forward the technology that makes it possible to clean both gas power and coal power. Then the government's policy is very clear. We have said that new concessions can only be given in cases where you can have CO2 management. Then there's one gas power plant that has all the permits, and that's Forest. They had the permits before this government joined. If they get profitability in their project -- well, they can only get started. But now it's important that we use all our energy to ensure that we get technology developments that will be relevant to what can become a number of coastal projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e818	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Refers to a look-up in Troms Folkeblad on 15 May 2008, where it appears that the owner of a tourist facility is not allowed to build a service building because of the fact that it is not possible to build a tourist facility. that the reindeer industry claims to be built in a calving and grazing area. What will the Council of State do to strengthen private ownership so that business development can also take place in the districts, and does the Council of State believe that Sámi interests should prevail over local needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e827	This question concerns the responsibility of several ministers. The answer will be given in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Environment. I do not know the decisions in this specific matter. In general, I express my opinion on construction matters. In a construction case, there are a lot of concerns to be taken. The care of the landowner weighs heavily. It's his favorite that triggers construction work, and the municipality must have a clear place to say no to the project. When assessing a construction project, there are also a number of other requirements imposed by society. The fact that the landowner can initially control his own property does not go so far that other considerations, such as: safety and environmental considerations may be disregarded. The importance of reindeer operations is another example. Securing the basis of life for the Sami culture is an important objective. For construction purposes it follows from the planning and building laws that the municipality cannot grant start-up permits until the relevant governing authorities have given their consent, when it follows the law that consent or permission is required. This is because there should be no doubt that the measure has been clarified and that all considerations have been taken into account. The use of property is often guided by municipal spatial plans. The Planning and Building Act provides the basis for decisions on the development and use and protection of resources. This law is central when it applies to land management within the pastures. The district management of the reindeer can counterbalance the area part of the municipal plan and the regulatory plans, and may complain of dispensation decisions that give negative consequences to the carrying out of the reindeer operations in the Sami reindeer areas. The plan part of the proposed new planning and building law emphasises that the concerns of Sami interests should be reflected in the same way as other important national and regional considerations in the planning - compare § 3-1c of the proposed law, which states that plans under the law will ‘ensure the natural basis for Sami culture, nutrition and social life’. Let me stress that in construction matters and other matters relating to the use of private land, there will be a question of a balance between the landowner's wishes and the concern for the environment and society. In some cases, the concern to care for the Sami culture must lead to the concern of the individual landowner. It is important that this does not happen more than necessary. The right to appeal shall ensure the defence of a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e838	I thank the Council of State for a general answer to a specific question. It disappoints me that the Council of State does not want to go into this matter more specifically, as it has been dealt with in various bodies. Decisions and issues should actually be very easy to perceive. Then the general word around this is that Sami interests are to be cared for. Had they asked the question in another way, they would have answered that local interests should be taken care of. So it comes out very little concretely of the answer given by the Council of State to a specific issue, because it is a fact that there is a conflict of interest between Sami and local interests. This reindeer takes up the possibility of compensation if it is built. Does the Council of State mean, then - to reverse the issue - that an owner of property can also be compensated, in the same way that partners demand compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e845	Let me first say that I am a little surprised that the representative of Korsberg, with as long a seagoing time as he has in Stortinget, expects the Council of State to go directly into a matter mentioned in the Troms Folkeblad, and come with advice, point of view and even conclusions. As I have pointed out: these are complicated issues, when one on the one hand is to carry out basic ownership interests and initiatives, according to the law, while one on the other hand in a specific case, according to the same law, should take different care. Whether or not this might be a question of replacement is a question that is not my own. It's a question I can't answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e852	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I must say I am disappointed with the response of the Council of State, which has long seagoing times both here in the house and as the Council of State. I had actually expected a more concrete answer. As I have seen the Storting regulations, it is permissible to ask specific questions about concrete matters, and not just on a general basis. The problem as such is not new. I have raised these kinds of questions in the past, and I note that this government only continues what has been an established policy, namely, that the Sami interests are actually ahead of local interests. You just get to register that. Many samars claim that this is happening within their territory. To ask a specific question, to which I hope I get the answer, does the Council of State think that there is now a need for documentation from the group that can almost prove that this is happening within their core area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e863	I believe that the representative of Korsberg and I will agree on one issue, and that is that the specific issues raised by this matter are difficult and complex and require the handling of cases by bodies to bodies according to the rules that apply to them. So I'm going to give the representative of Korsberg right at one point, that today's government is busy keeping the international obligations to the people of Norway, as well as the 1966 UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, as well as ILO Convention No. 169 of 1989 on indigenous peoples. But then I would like to stress again that it does not mean that all of their interests should always lead to other interests. There will be a balance in each specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e880	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e887	‘New holiday arrangements for the Austevoll municipality after the opening of Austevollsbrua have been the subject of questions before, but unfortunately must be left. The invitation to tender for the ferry section between Krokeide and Hufthamar is in accordance with the staging proposal for Austevollsbrua. The old assumptions used for future ferry services include: not take into account strong traffic growth for many years which shows a high need for ferry capacity. Two ferries and lower speed will provide better solution than one big new ferry. How does the Council of State help Austevoll?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e894	In St. prp. No 30 for 2004-2005, on the development and financing of R & D. 546 Austevollsbrua, alternative use is provided for the rescued ferry services from the national ferry services and tolls. The alternative use of integrated ferry charges is set for 15 years by a reduction from two to one ferries in the Krokeide-Hufthamar connection. When handling the case, the municipality of Austevoll decided to accept a reduced ferry frequency in order to put Austevollsbrua in place. The Ferjestränninga Hufthamar-Austevollschella was closed when Austevollsbrua opened in November 2007. Replacing two ferries with one major ferry was an important commitment to providing funding for Austevollsbrua. In order to avoid future traffic growth, therefore, a large ferry was added to the main message so that capacity per year. The hour approximated the capacity of two smaller ferries. A proposal to replace one ferry by two will therefore break with the base for the whole system associated with alternative ferry charges. The connection is currently operated by the ferry MF “Great”. Ferja has a capacity of 107 cars. The Directorate of Roads reports that if we compare the 1st quarter of 2008 with the 1st quarter of 2007, we see a traffic growth of 3 pst. This is a growth inside you can expect. In addition, the Directorate of Roads informs us that per 1st quarter of this year it has been said that 15 runs. The reason for transporting dangerous goods is not the capacity of the ferry in the connection. According to the Directorate-General for Road Transport’s assessment, the traffic settlement in the connection is satisfactory. In connection with the launch of the competition, the Ministry of Transport has chosen a shorter period of operation for the Krokeide-Hufthamar link. The period of operation is set at six years, starting from 1 January 2011. Reduced supply period is intended to reduce the uncertainty associated with future traffic development. The offer criteria do not set requirements for faster speed in the connection than is normal for national road transport operations. I am aware that there is a great deal of local notice about the connection and new offer announcement. In short, the Ministry of Transport will have a meeting with the municipality of Austevoll on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e907	Thanks for the answer. It's good that there's going to be a meeting. It's even better if there's better ferry capacity. The numbers that the state council referred to are probably right. But what's important to use in this context is the traffic forecast in St.prp. No 30 for 2004-2005, which we dealt with in 2004. The traffic figure in 2007 is then 13 pst. above what the grossing-up proposition took into account. There is no doubt about the assumptions contained in previous decisions. There is also no doubt that the world looks different today, not least that traffic looks different today. This is primarily what the Austevoll municipality and the Hordaland county municipality have very clearly asked the department and central government authorities to take account of. The councils are opening Austevollsbrua. She mentioned the job with the ferry connection and said she worked under pressure and pressure. Can that job provide a better ferry connection than is now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e916	It was a great day at Austevoll when an open Austevollsbrua. It's one of the nice experiences a Minister of Transport gets to participate in. When it comes to the ferry, it's quite right that I also said that I'm working on it, and there's a leak in the fact that we have a meeting with the municipality in the near future. What's important is if there's a large percentage of remaining cars on the ferry link. It has one per. current date not. We know that, among other links along the coast, there are links that separate have greater involvement than one has in Austevoll. It will then be necessary for me, who will be responsible for the whole country, also to look at the relationship that is consistent with what has been entered into in the past, what is in line with the NTP standard, and what is not. Therefore, of course, this distance must also be seen in conjunction with other distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e925	Thank you again for your answer. I understand that very well. However, we must ensure that what was a major gain of land, namely getting better internal connections in the Austevoll island municipality, does not result in a worsening of the ferry link - as the only link - to Bergen. There is no re-routing at all, and traffic growth is well above what was required in the staging proposition. So it's important to add that it's not just about the number of passenger car units on the ferry. It's also about the opening time, that's when the ferry goes, and how many times the ferry goes. If we look at the volume of traffic in relation to the NTP standard as I have understood this, the solution chosen will be significantly lower for this society in the future than will apply to other connections with the corresponding capacity. It also has to do with readiness if you choose one ferry and not two. If one ferry is out of play, you're paralysing the entire island community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e934	Of course, it is important that you have a good relationship. So when we look at the capacity now up against what was before going over to one ferry, it is so that in 2006 there was 3 100 remaining running speed, or 1.2 pst. of total traffic. The corresponding figure for 2007 was 1,814, or 0,6 pst. From week 47 in 2007, the link has been trafficked by one ferry. Except for two Tuesdays when one has had the transport of dangerous goods, it has not been added. So the reason for the remaining cars these days was the transport of dangerous goods. There were 31 remaining cars in December 2007, compared to the corresponding 65 in December 2006. As the Council of State, I'm forced to relate to that kind of number. I'm forced to relate to reality and look at how it is here versus other connections. So I'm going to think about the persuasion. today, this is not a problem. If it's going to be in the future, I'll evaluate it. That's why we've seen the bidding period of six years and not eight years, which is the usual.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e946	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to Oppland Arbeiderblad, the Labour Inspectorate for Inner East has assessed the closure of Rv. 33 Gjövik-Minnesund due to danger to professional drivers. The road is sinking on the outside towards Mjøsa, resulting in heavy transport being strongly pulled against the auto protection/slope. In the long term, parts of the road will crash out. The Council of State is probably already aware of the matter, but what kind of action will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e955	It is true that the Labour Inspectorate has informally asked the Norwegian Road Administration questions about the safety of heavy running noise on the Rv. 33 between Minnesund and Gjøvik, and especially on the route through Byrudberga in the municipality of Eidsvoll. The reason for this is sentences in the roadways and narrow runs, which makes it difficult to run there, especially for heavy runs. The Swedish Road Authority has replied that they are aware of these conditions, but that they do not consider it necessary to close the road for heavy running. They will, however, implement immediate measures to improve the situation by introducing a temporary reduced speed limit and correcting the worst sentence damage with asphalt masses. A recent inspection with an engineer geologist shows that there is a movement in the road foundation past Byrudberga, so that a greater reinforcement work must be carried out on this route in a few years. This is why the state road authority will now launch a plan to implement a reinforcement project for Rv. 33 in the 2010-2013 action programme. This will depend, of course, on the fact that the county also prioritizes the road in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010-2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e964	I am very pleased that the Council of State has grasped it. Now she says it's from 2010. Still, I am satisfied with it, even though it is a little bit ahead in time. Abroad has been one of the worst states in terms of accident statistics -- it was at the top last year -- and unfortunately, statistics for this year are also bad. Here the road is exceptionally bad. Can the Councils expedite this? And how large will this reinforcement project possibly be? Would it be so that two trailers can easily meet in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e971	I don't have the full list of deadlocks in Oppland this year, but if we look at past experiences, both in Uppland and in other states, it's not on the narrow and curved roads of the deadlocks. They usually happen on the good roads. Because that's the speed that unfortunately usually kills, and speed gets faster the better the road gets. It's a paradox that we unfortunately see. And there may be one reason why some Western states are low on the accident statistics, because the roads are so poor and narrow that you can't run any faster. When it comes to the design of the road, I said in my main response that one should now start planning work. So I don't have an answer to that question right now. The work to be carried out by the State Road Administration must provide an answer. But we're going to give room for the state roadway service to initiate such a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e978	I'm very pleased with the Council of States--for once, I kept saying. - Yeah, I think it's positive that the Council of State would take care of it-- I think so. At the same time as rv. Thirty-three races out, the foundation of the Gjøvik track has also broken out. The Gjøvik track was then closed for a while. So it's clear that the foundation of both rail and road is bad in Uppland. At the same time, it's not the speed that creates the accidents in Uppland. If we look at E16, it's so narrow that two trailers can't meet. There are enormous accidents, and they continue into this year too, unfortunately. So I wonder if the state council will reconsider a little bit of that perception that it's not the speed that does it in Uppland-- but it might be that it's the same in other states.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e987	There are clearly more causes when accidents happen. It's important to clarify it. When it comes to E16, the Minister of Transport then travels and water along that road. It's not long since I ran home along the E16, and I have to say that I'm a little worried about the culture of traffic. As the Council of State and otherwise, I try to keep the speed limits. Not many others did that Friday afternoon. Where I ran in 80 and a little over, there were a lot of people running in far over 100, as I could judge. So the speed can be done to also get on the E16, even if the road is in a state that means that one shouldn't run at that speed. It is probably the combination of a road that is not suitable for that speed, and many people are still in a hurry to get there quickly, which makes the road unclosed. It is clear that that road is one of the ones that we now assess in the national transport plan context, for repair.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-21.ana.ud1553e996	This means that today's maps are ready. - The meeting's been cancelled.
