ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e22	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi For the Hordaland County: Sigrid Brattabø Handegard For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Modulf Supplement For Oslo: Khalid Mahmood For Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling, Bente Thorsen and Kjell Arvid Svendsen For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Laila Milkevoll and Bjørg Mikalsen The requested alternate of Akershus County, Cathrin Bretzeg, is requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the respective representatives Sonja Irene Sjøli and Jan Petersen's leave from 10 November to 19 November, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Second and third alternates of Akershu County, Sylvi Graham and Haarek Riveres are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e80	Sylvi Graham is here and wants to take a seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave on days 13 and 14 November, from the representative of Tore Nordtun on leave from 14 November to 18 November and from the representative of Per Ove Width on leave from 13 November to 19 November respectively – all to participate in the autumn session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Valencia, Spain from the Group of the Progressive Democrats on sickness leave for the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Thore A. Nistad – both from 12 November and until further notice from the Working Party on sickness leave for the representative Irene Johansen from 12 November to 12 November and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For East-Agder County: Ingrid SkårmoFor Northernland County: Toril Ø. HanssenFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Rogaland County: Unn Therese O. SørensenFor Westfold County: Jan Fredrik VogtFor Eastfold County: Thor Erik ForsbergSylvi Graham, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Jan Fredrik Vogt shall be elected to the Lagtinget for the time they meet respectively for the representatives Jan Petersen, Thore A. Nistad and Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e149	Ingrid Skårmo, Morten Ørsal Johansen and Thor Erik Forsberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e155	The President will propose the election of three presidents of the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen and Anders Anundsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortingets this week. The representative Ib Thomsen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e162	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ulf Leirstein, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I would like to promote a proposal by a representative for a pilot scheme with closed asylum facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e167	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e170	On behalf of the representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I would like to propose a strategy to strengthen the active private ownership of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e176	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e179	On behalf of the representative of Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I am pleased to propose that the investment funds for North-West Russia and the investment fund for Eastern Europe be merged and that the management of the funds be added to the Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e184	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e209	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Peder Breck State Council Trond Gian State Council Sylvia Brustad The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e228	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. In recent weeks, energy and industrial politicians from the Progress Party have traveled around the country and visited large industrial companies. We have been to Elkem Aluminium Lista, at the Eramet in Sauda, at Tinfos in Kvinesdal, at Finnfjord Smelteverk on Finnsnes and at Hydro Karmøy, Rogaland – to name a few. What we're meeting is a power-processing industry with great optimism, with great innovation ability, an industry that is a cornerstone enterprise in many parts of the country, which employs tens of thousands of knowledge-rich, out-of-work people, which makes Norway not only a raw material supplier of energy, but is actually also an exporter of processed metal that achieves high prices on the world market. Through a large industrial cluster, we've got environments that create new products, that develop more energy-efficient production methods, that cause a discharge of less harmful substances into air, water and soil, and that also make these production methods an export industry for many of the companies. Without this industrial cluster in Norway, we would have increased emissions of environmentally harmful substances, increased energy consumption and poorer products on the world market. Through this high productivity and innovatory capacity, these companies can offer better wages and working conditions than competitors, and nevertheless be profitable. And so it should be. At the same time, these companies are very exposed to international competition and need competitive framework conditions. All enterprises have shown a willingness to invest in Norway, given that there are two prerequisites that come into place. One is a CO2 quota regime that is in line with the EU's, which is not stricter, as the Government wants. The second is an industrial power regime in which Norway can take effect under the same conditions as one can, for example. in France. Then the question is, when will the government bring forward this industrial power regime that they themselves have notified ears once in the last three and a half years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e244	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative in how important this industry is to Norway, and therefore also how important it is to have framework conditions that make them still find it interesting to hold on in Norway, and that in this way we manage to maintain the good competence that is in many of those companies, and not least to recruit even more. I also want to say that at the time we're in now, it's even more important to keep up with innovation, that is, to change to new times. It's also quite right, as the representative says, that several of the companies we're talking about here are cyclical. That means that for several of the companies that the representative here mentions, the world is, if it's not completely turned on its head, at least quite dramatically changed in a short time because of the financial crisis that we now have and that started in the United States. It makes sense that we follow that situation closely. In the context of the budget, the Government, as the representative knows, and I, together with Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, on behalf of the Government, have said clearly that we are positive about the establishment of companies, for example. a purchasing consortium, which has been a requirement of the industry, according to the French model. We also have clear expectations that an important company such as Statkraft will use the opportunities they have to enter into even more long-term power contracts, such as those. did with Boliden, who was very good for Oddas, for the industry, the workplaces and the local environment there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e251	There's no news here in what the Council of State says. Unfortunately, both this Council of State and the previous Minister of Industry in this government have said the same thing. The problem is that there was never a framework that actually makes an industrial power regime viable. There were never any fundamental clarifications that say that after 2012, the CO2 quota strategy in Norway should be in line with the EU rather than be much more stringent. When one does not get the framework conditions in place, the business community gets stuck on the fence without making investments, investments that would benefit from a low economic downturn, because then one has access in the construction industry to enable the investments to be realised cheaper, but not least one has a more forward-looking industry that can produce and compete on the large market once again. So now we see that Hydro Karmøy is laying down 450 jobs without the government having provided the necessary clarifications regarding the industrial power regime to make a new investment decision for future production. Then again the question is: When does the Government come up with the concrete clarifications regarding industrial power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e261	It is completely wrong when the representative of the Advance Party here says that the Government does not deliver. If it is the case that the representative believes that what may now be in the process of happening, for example. on Karmøy, has something to do with what the representative here takes up and says, it is wrong. Hydro Karmøy has a per. now in force and they have an emission permit. What is the situation for Hydro Karmøy now, and that several similar companies can come up with, is that we have a financial crisis that makes the world turn around in many ways. This means, among other things: the total change in the aluminium market in a very short time. This is not about what the representative here is trying to draw up as a problem - the government has delivered. But what it's about now is to stand in the situation we're in, deliver measures like the Government has done, both through budgets and bank packages, and the Norwegian Bank has reduced the interest rate on governance. It's about it, it's not about what the representative here is talking about. Furthermore, we have delivered in connection with the budget, and we have clear expectations that State power will deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e266	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e269	It is rather discouraging that the Council of State meets a fall in demand for Norwegian goods and services with a series of away explanations. There is no doubt that everyone today can record that the government’s policy has contributed to making Norwegian jobs less robust. Of course, the questioner is quite right about the example of Karmøy, where the government knew that the industrial power regime had not been delivered. The offer of new renewable energy in Norway has been a single long-term flop – tax incentives and falls in the research and development effort. Then you face this situation of taking from the Norwegian industry the power they themselves had. So that's the answer from the Council today, where thousands of Norwegian jobs are at risk. How many thousands of jobs must be lost before the Government chooses to listen to others than to itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e276	What Mr. Kristiansen here says is completely wrong. We don't have excuses we deliver. We deliver through the budget, we deliver in relation to this purchasing consortium that the industry has asked for, and we have – and of course the Stortinget has adopted – a new regime in terms of repatriation. This means, for example: that in the case of Carmøy, they are in force and they have an emission permit. So it's the way that the right doesn't want to hear, I understand that this is a whole new situation. I notice that the Right answer to that is more tax-free, which many experts in today's and yesterday's newspapers say is not at all what will work in the situation that we are now in. We are following this situation very closely. This means that I have a close dialogue with, for example: Hydro in relation to the situation on Karmøy, which is worrying, and which we follow closely. But Hydro is also very clear that this is about framework conditions that come from other countries, and the aluminium market, and not about what the representative from the Right is trying to say that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e282	Kjell Arvid Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e285	I'm from one of these industrial sites that experience this on the body. In fact, I have been rapporteur in Karmøy for the last thirteen years. I was in the election campaign three years ago and heard the red-green parties swooping down on a council of states from the same municipality for incompetence. It would take two to three months, and then it would have been done with the power regime. That was the promise to the people. After the election, I have visited two government councils, both the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Minister of Industry: we will sort this out, and we will guarantee it within a year. This has not happened, it has not been delivered, it is not enough power, and it is not long-term contracts to Karmøy factories for any expansion and K6. Now the whole community and trade union movement are asking: what tools does this government have? And if so, when does one intend to use those tools? The whole community knows what's promised, but one has not delivered in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e294	In the case of Karmøy in particular, which is in a worrying situation – that concern I fully share – I believe that the most important thing about Karmøy is to get something new and deal with the situation that is there now. We have a close dialogue with Hydro about that. In the case of long-term power contracts, which I fully agree are crucial for the Norwegian industry, an agreement has now been concluded with Boliden Odda. That's good. But, on behalf of the state, I have clear expectations that several long-term power contracts will be concluded, which is also absolutely necessary. We also have a dialogue with the Government on that, seafaringly. So to this purchasing consortium, which industry would like to launch. We've said that we're positive that they're coming back with a proposal in that area. We're going to get more long-term contracts that will enable us to secure the industry for a long time in the future. It's not right to say that we're not working on this. So let's do that. There have already been results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e301	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e304	It seems as if the Government will make North Rogaland an exhibition window for its breach of promises. There is the gas power plant on Kårstø, which was to be cleaned by 2009. Now there are more and more signals from the Government that indicate that one will not clean the gas power plant at all. In North Rogaland, Hydro's company is located on Karmøy, which had clear expectations of a new power regime if one got a government change, because that was what was lifted from the government parties – a new power regime. What was needed was government change and will. The government has now announced that such a new power regime will not come. Does the Council of State at all fail to understand that many in Industry-Norway feel tricked by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e311	I'm taking a distance from sayings like "breakup". We are very concerned about this industry. That is why we also have close dialogue with industry. That is also the case with Carmøy and Hydro. I think it's now very important that someone take over what's the cause of the acute situation they're in, that it's the world around us that has contributed most to it. I also think it is important to try to help put something new in place that is more forward-looking. I have also experienced that the Left is busy. We've been sailing close to dialogue about that. But it's the board that has to make those decisions. We are working intensively on this with a view to getting more long-term agreements. What's in place is good, but we need even more. There is clearly something that we also follow up when it comes to, among other things. State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e318	Kåre Fostervold – for follow-up questions. The President would like to remind you that the representatives should stand clear down here when they have to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e323	I think the Council of State has an approximate relationship with the truth, because what I am experiencing now is that the Council of State is advancing the financial crisis as the basis for lack of investment. What was involved in industrial power was future investment. The government has certainly not delivered in that area. Now it's back to business itself. All the election lifts are broken. Does the Council of State, on the basis of the argument put forward here in the Chamber today, believe that the Government has delivered what it has promised with regard to the industrial power regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e330	We can refer to several conclusions of long-term agreements that are good for Norwegian industry. I hope there will be more. We have clear expectations that this will happen. I know there's a disagreement about the repatriation scheme in this room. There, Stortinget has made its decision. In the case of some of the companies specifically mentioned here, among others. So Karmøy, that's how they have power, and they have emission permits. It's trying to create a sense of what's happening, for example. there, it's not about the situation that's now around the world, it's just not right at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e335	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e338	The Minister of Economic Affairs may stand still. The self-satisfaction with which the Government is now facing downturns is in stark contrast with the unrest and insecurity that is now spreading in many communities. On Monday, VG was able to show an overview of 178 small and large companies, from Finnmark in the north to Kristiansand in the south, who have started the downsizing, and who have started cancelling employees. The government's response to enterprises fighting to save jobs is higher taxes, higher taxes that do not primarily affect the rich, but which require the withdrawal of equity in small and large enterprises, equity that should have been used to invest in new jobs. This comes at the top of the fact that in the last three years the government has increased the taxes on business by over DKK 10 billion, and that the competitiveness of business has been weakened every year under red-green rule. This affects companies in District Norway. In Firda last week we could read about the hotel owner Sigurd Kvikne in Balestrand. His family has operated family hotels since 1877. He could tell that the government's property tax and inheritance tax are a threat to the family businesses in District Norway. Last week we were able to read about Måløy-patriot Gunnar Carlson, who, because of the government's policy, is now abandoning the plans to invest in a new design centre that would create new jobs. When will the Council of State realize that increased taxes are not medicine to save businesses fighting to save their jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e356	The government is not satisfied with the sea. We take seriously the concern that some individuals now feel, and as some companies around the country report. There are some industries, especially construction, that are hard hit, as it looks here now. What we might see more of is that it'll spread out a little bit different geographically, because the companies are operating in different places around the country. This is also why we have close dialogue with business organisations. That is also why the Prime Minister and several government councils a few weeks ago had a meeting with the main organisations both on the employee and employer side. They had one clear message for us, and it was that the most important thing now is to make monetary policy work again and make the banking system go around. This is important to make the wheels of business go around. None of us can say for sure what this picture is going to look like. But we have delivered a good government budget, we have delivered a bank package that the representative knows well – and we are pleased to have been adopted in Stortinget, which is absolutely crucial – and Norway’s Bank has reduced the interest rate twice, as the representative knows. Then we have a high level of preparedness. That means that we're following developments very closely. I record that the right recipe is the same as it has been in almost all the years I have been in Stortinget – almost 20 years – and that is that the taxes have to be reduced. That's what we heard last year. I'm recording that more experts, in newspapers both yesterday and today, say that it's not the medicine that's going on in the situation we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e365	If the Council of State does not want to listen to the Right, she may also be able to listen to those who run small and medium-sized enterprises around Norway. I agree with the Minister of Industry that the recession is going to turn out differently. This will particularly affect small communities in the district of Norway, where the main emphasis of family and small and medium-sized enterprises lies. We do not disagree with the importance of bringing interest rates down and making the money market work. But what I asked the Council of State is whether the increase in taxes proposed by the Government in its budget for next year is proper medicine. When companies are fighting to avoid downsizing, they send a higher tax bill to the same companies. We see in the evening post that Aass Brewery is now being punished for indifference and gets a triple of the inheritance fee from the Government in next year's budget. Does the Council of State really believe that tax increases are medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e372	We are, as the Right, also maritimely concerned with both the family-owned businesses and the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of Norwegian business. But then the question is, what's the situation? It is not the case that Norway is a poor country in which to engage in business. We recently received a report from the World Bank, where Norway is number ten of the best in the world to be able to do business, and number four in Europe. There's nothing to be ashamed of. So that's the question of inheritance and wealth. Firstly, I believe that the overall framework conditions for doing business in Norway are good. So it's true that the government has put up with a new grip – a fairer grip – on inheritance and wealth, but that's also the case, as the representative Sanner has just chosen to jump over, that about 90-95 pst. will receive a lower inheritance fee with our scheme. So lower taxes are not the answer in this situation. Almost everyone who has notified us back supports us in the policy we have to deal with the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e381	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e384	The economic outlook has changed since the government budget was presented. It's a business that's taking over. The response from the Government – also in this case – is that it follows the situation closely. The current experience of business is, among other things: capital drought. It affects individual enterprises, and it affects industries. Although the financial industry has received a crisis package of DKK 350 billion, there is no willingness to take a special risk of borrowing funds. The Progress Party considers the situation to be serious, and we are strengthening Innovation Norway, among other things. with 160 million. NOK in our alternative state budget, and NOK 5 billion more to Argentum. What will the Council of State do to enable business to access capital to investment and also to operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e393	We believe, as I have said, that the most important thing now is to move in the money, i.e. to make monetary policy work, and get the banks to roll again, so that business can also roll better. That's an important answer. Then we've been searing an instrument, to which the representative refers. And the government also presented – as the representative has been well aware – a proposal to extend the framework for GIEK from 50 billion to 60 billion, as it appears that the Stortinge will adopt tomorrow. At least there is a unanimous position on the part of the Financial Committee, as far as I know. That's good! It's also absolutely necessary in relation to the situation we're in. I think the most important thing now is to have ice in your stomach, in the sense that we have put forward a good budget, that we have presented a banking package that the Stortinget has adopted, that the interest rate has been reduced twice, and that we are prepared and follow the situation very closely. Then it's a very important point, as we see it, to put in the right action when the time comes. That means that it's not a floss to talk about that we're following the situation closely. We're doing it, and we're ready if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e402	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e405	Having ice in your stomach can be an advantage sometimes, but it can also lead to frost damage. The situation now requires action. The Christian People's Party wants an additional package of measures in the government budget of SEK 4.8 billion to dampen the unemployment that will come. We see the construction and maintenance of roads, railways, schools and hospitals. This can be done quite quickly. Federal Leader Arve Bakke requires additional measures, and the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs writes to the Minister for Transport and asks for immediate action. Every day, I meet people who don't understand why the government can't do anything. People are worried, people are worried. What's This By? Why does the government not want to do anything - does it have an uncritical faith in some economic model? Does the Council of State think this is going to go over itself, or does the Government know something that we don't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e412	It is completely wrong when the representative Sørfonn says that the government is not acting. It is not possible to say that the Government does not act when we have submitted the state budget we have done, when we have submitted the bank package we have made, and when the Norwegian Bank has followed up reducing the interest rate. We have regular meetings with business people every week — perhaps several times a week — to hear what the situation is like now. It is then important to be prepared so that proper action can be taken when necessary. So it's saying that, yes, it's clear we're taking seriously the concern that some people are now going to know, both individuals and businesses. As the representative also knows very well, the budget for the next year has not been finally adopted, and it does not come into force until next year, so you cannot expect the effects of it already now. We don't know all about what the situation is going to look like in a few months, but that's exactly why it's so important that we follow it closely. It is also important to say that Norway is better equipped than many other countries, because we have been pursuing a responsible economic policy for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e421	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e424	The government's government budget contains a number of tax reinforcements to the business community against which the Left is opposed. What is needed now is an industrial policy that stimulates value creation and stimulates new jobs. The left is happy and appreciates those who create the jobs, and we want to give them a pat on their shoulders instead of putting more stones in their backpack. It was worrying to get the report from the Statistical Central Bureau, and we recorded that in the third quarter of this year there was an increase in the number of bankruptcies of between 40 and 50 pst. I want to challenge the Council of State: does she admit that the diagnosis of business was made at the wrong time when the state budget was created, and that it is also therefore the wrong medicine that is now in the state budget for next year in view of a value-creating business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e432	I do not believe, of course, that the state budget is wrong medicine. We believe that the state budget will deal with the situation we are in, in a good way, together with the other things that have also been implemented. One of the things in the state budget, which the representative is very well aware of, is an offensive effort not least on the road and the road – where there are now some industries that are struggling – a commitment to public building, it is in the care of the elderly, student housing, colleges, for that matter, and many other things. There is also a rather massive focus on research and empowerment, not least in times such as these, which are very important, among other things. If we turn more money into industrial research, as the business community has been asking for for many years. So, CHOOSE is a new example that we act when the situation warrants it, and we follow the situation very closely and are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e439	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e442	I think it is particularly important that in this situation the government prioritises attacks on the rich in society in front of securing Norwegian jobs. I think it is particularly important that we explain to the Minister of Industry in Norway that there is a link between the company's equity and the way they have to handle their employees until next year. Yesterday we could read how the Government's tax increase works. The NHO president has to pay 2.2 million. DKK in tax on income of 1,8 million. His sister has to pay $1.1 million. NOK in tax of an income of well NOK 400000. The consequence is that the enterprise has to collect equity to pay the owners' property taxes, and the tax is wholly independent of profits or losses in the enterprise. This symbolism policy will affect hundreds of family businesses in Norway, which must therefore weaken their equity to pay the Government's property tax. Has the Labour Party become so arrogant after three years in government that one is more concerned with symbol policy than with securing equity and jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e449	I think it's interesting that the Right calls what the Government has done in this situation, ‘symbol policy’. The fact that the Right and Government parties disagree on fiscal policy is nothing new. There's also nothing new in the right, as I've read it, has presented in its alternative budget, it's just that it's now being sold under a slightly different heading than what was the situation last year or the year before. Yes, we disagree with the question of lower taxes. I believe that Norwegian business has good framework conditions in relation to the situation we are in, and they have also reported very clearly that the most important thing now is to get the money back. That's what's most crucial to keep the wheels moving well forward, even in relation to the situation we're in. That the Right is not so concerned with fair distribution, I do not experience anything very new either. That there are some companies that are going to notice this is obvious. But it's like that between 90 and 95 pst. I am going to have some relief with our inheritance fee schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e456	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e459	I also have a question for the Minister of Industry, so it can just stay standing. I have listened with interest to what has been said here, but I perceive the main message from the Government so that they will follow developments. We have to assume that since the budget was presented, the budget has changed dramatically, and even more so since the premises for the budget were presented. There are many, many individuals, families, etc., who are now deeply concerned and worried about the future – it is about individualism. There was a depressing reading in the VG on Monday, where there was a list of over 170 companies across the country that are now the victims of the financial crisis. I want to read a little bit from that list. This is serious, this is about the individual, the individual, and this isn't theory, these aren't models. Glava AS in Askim has already six to twelve annual workscuts. Flexit AS in Ørje has quit adding nine. Noral AS in Ørje has approx. 65 is added, and of them ten are resigned, three are permitted. Moelven timber company in Moelv should remove 200 out of 3,300. Bergene Holm AS wood in Larvik cuts 70–80 of 481 settings, and Fibo AS, aluminium producer in Holmestrand with approx. 80, we have to permit – and this is how we can continue. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State have to say to the reality of which this is a little bit, except to say that one follows the evolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e470	There is no doubt that there are individuals who are now walking around and have hurt their stomachs because they are concerned that they have either been licensed or are about to become so, and how they are going to manage to pay the mortgage, for example. We're going to take that very seriously. I also know someone who is in that situation. The financial crisis with Norway has also been worrying for several enterprises, and in particular some industries in particular. But then it is following the situation that is now maritime, in addition to the steps that the Government has taken, has proposed, and which it seems the Storting is going to join. Close contact with those concerned is essential. It has the government in the broad front, and we also have the readiness if necessary. But it is to do not just pee on, but rather put in the right action when the time might be right for it. But it is clear that we are following this very closely. In my own department, we have our own groups, for example. which follows this from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e479	Here we try to be constructive from the opposition's side, come up with solutions, extra packages etc., but we don't get through. It increases with people who are afraid of losing their housing, losing their jobs. They're really worried about the future. And I just started reading the long, depressing list in the VG. In my own home country, Hordaland, I have Munck Cranes in Bergen. They're constrained by twelve added. The original group of architects in Bergen has added 13 and they have issued a four. Henrik J. Askvik's sons, boat manufacturer in Os, have 119 permits, there are only 16 left at work. Does this impress the Council of State? Can she really sit down and see that this developer is doing nothing more than following developments and contacting business? Quite other measures are required if one is to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e488	Neither I nor my colleagues in the government are calm about this situation. Once we have presented the state budget for next year — which will not work until next year, it is only then that one can see changes of a positive nature, for example. in the construction sector, if the Storting joins that budget – we believe that that budget is well adapted to the situation we are in, together with the banking package and with the basis for getting lower interest rates. So we're not sitting down. We're following it very closely and very carefully, and we're taking very seriously what we're now seeing clear trends in different parts of the country, it's spreading slightly different because what industries we're talking about here. We believe that we have put forward a good proposal with several parts that are well suited to dealing with this situation. And it is important to say that we are so lucky in Norway that because there is a responsible economic policy over many years, we are also better equipped to deal with this situation than many countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e495	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e498	The Progress Party has met with a wide range of companies and organisations. What they are concerned about is the economic situation in the country, and they ask for action to be taken to address that situation. Then it's not just the interest they're busy with, but they're simply busy getting speed on the Norwegian economy again. And then it's important to take a number of measures, such as investment, such as improving the environment for consumers, in order to speed up the economy. We see that there are things that are about to happen. So far this year, there's more bankruptcy than it was last year. There are far fewer business start-ups than last year, and in the third quarter the decrease was over 12 pst. in the case of new business start-ups. What will the Council of State actually do to counteract this negative trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e508	I would like to repeat the answers I have already given with regard to the state budget, the banking package and the reduction in the interest rate, and that we are following this situation very closely. But it's really nothing to laugh at, that a whole business life, at least as we hear it, clearly shows that the most important thing is to get monetary policy to work again. That's why it's vital that banks start borrowing again, that there's going to be a flow there, to keep the wheels going in business. Otherwise, it's interesting to note that the financial crisis that started largely in the United States, which was largely due to market forces being controlled, has not exactly been a good medicine either for the United States or for Norway. And the last country needs now, there's a lot of experiments. What it needs now is a bad course, and that's what the government adds up to. We are also ready if there is to be a need to do something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e517	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e520	In the stream of words that the Council of State has now managed to keep up for half an hour, the Council of State has not at one time, not at a single time, been able to answer or explain to some why it is necessary — at a time when Norwegian companies have problems getting money to invest and renew — to take out more of their equity from their businesses, to take out the savings that companies have just to be rusted out in a situation where there is a decline in order to keep people in work. At this point, perhaps the worst-case moment, the government is choosing a strategy where it collects the savings, the equity, of Norwegian companies. Why is it an essential measure for this government to fight for, other than that it is part of the electoral campaign strategy of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e527	I think, obviously in contrast to the Right, that there are good conditions for doing business in Norway. I believe that the overall framework conditions for this are good in Norway. That we disagree on what has been presented in terms of inheritance and wealth is not new either. We take into account the possibility of a generation change, which I fully agree with the representative of Solberg in, is very important, by keeping parts of the stock abate in the inheritance fee. This is also how, as the representative of Solberg is well aware, we are making it possible for ownership to be planned and carried out over a longer period of time than has previously been the case. What's interesting is that in the stream of words from the Right is the lower tax that comes every single time, and it's very interesting that more experts that I don't exactly suspect to vote on this government, say there's completely wrong medicine in the situation we're in now. It is also interesting to note that the right in its alternative budget cuts in labour market measures, increases waiting time and takes a lot of other measures that do not have a positive effect on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e538	President! Isn't it a prerequisite in the Questionnaire that you get answers to the questions? The Council of State does not answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e543	That is part of the political debate. If you answer or don't answer, there are probably shared views about this. Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e548	Unemployment is heavy for those affected. It has to do with self-esteem, it has to do with self-esteem to have a job to do, and it actually has to do with quality of life. Unfortunately, there are now many signals that suggest that unemployment will increase, cf. what has been said earlier about the number of bankruptcies, etc. Then it's also the case that most municipalities are struggling with their economy to get next year's budget into port. This, combined with stock exchanges unrest, the financial crisis and the tight local economy, makes it look somewhat gloomy in the labour market. Is the Council of State anxious that the loss of tax revenue to the municipalities due to difficulties in business and the tax austerity suffered by businesses will also exacerbate the municipal economy, and that this will allow us to have more lost jobs in the public sector as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e557	The representative from Kongshaug, who mentions a possible further increase in unemployment, is of course something we are very concerned about following closely. That's why we have the close dialogue with the players, both in the labour market and in relation to the whole tool we're playing on. There are also, as the representative knows, several concrete increases in the budget for the next year in order to meet that situation. In the case of the local economy in particular, this government has made a significant contribution to the municipalities so that they can have more money for example. care for the elderly, school, children, or whatever is needed to increase the focus on Community solutions. We also believe that the municipal structure we have proposed for the Stortinget next year is a good budget for the municipalities, seafaring whether it is maritime variations between municipalities. We're very aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e564	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e567	In spite of the reality that an overall opposition has drawn with a broad brush for the Minister of Industry regarding the rising unemployment, the Minister doubts that the government budget is the medicine that has been given and that will work, and then we'll have ice in our stomachs and wait until the time comes. The question is whether time was not right now. The government has played off the opportunity to make an additional proposal to the budget that could have been a good supplemental medicine, where one could have had a cooperation in the Stortinge to save some of the jobs, including in North Norway, which we now see is lost. So we're going to wait until the end of the New Year. It means a few months with still uncertainty and reticked industrial doors. There's been a lot of talk about toolboxes, and there's been talk about jewelry boxes. Now we have a Minister of Industry who has a background as Minister of Health. An emergency kit may have been necessary – but it does not appear to be coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e574	No, the government thought that the time had not come for anything more than what we have put forward now. It is because we – and many with us – believe that the clear signals we have received from both the banking community and from large parts of the business community have been that now we have to get the money to flow again, and that is what is crucial. That's why the things we've put forward, which I've explained several times, what we think is necessary per. Now. But we're ready, and we're following this closely. We therefore believe that what we have now presented is good enough to deal with the situation we are in – but we are following this all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e582	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e585	The Minister of Economic Affairs may stand still. It is that perhaps one of the most vital and powerful things we can do for the present and the unborn business is to invest in research. And one of the most important things we can do across trends and across business cycles is bet on research. We know that as it tightens up, business will often cut in the crowns of research. With regard to the budgetary frameworks that have now been submitted – and the Left has presented it – the Left is within the same budgetary framework as the Government because we want interest to be reduced. We have chosen to prioritize the research with approx. DKr 1.7 billion. When we expect to introduce the old financial limits into the TaxFUNN scheme and ignore what is this budget of SEK 1.2 billion, we strengthen nutrient research and ensure that universities and colleges – which are absolutely crucial to getting the nutrition research – can run in a proper way and avoid being harmed. When we do this, it's because we're thinking in the long term. One of the things that actually concerns us is that we seem to have a government that doesn't have the strength and the willingness to prioritize long-term and think in terms of research. It almost seems that it is not perceived that research — including industrial research — is almost a glistening counter-cyclical policy. It's a policy that goes across what we can see breaking around us. In this situation, my question becomes to the Council of State: how can the Government apply two new resting sections to universities and colleges, when those who work in this sector, among others. Dr. Jarle Aarbakke, says that, above all, it will affect real science and medicine, which are the elements of research that give the most impact on industrial development? How can the Government do something as insanely short-sighted as introducing two new cutting-offs in basic research, which are crucial for real science and medicine, and which are conducive to economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e598	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Dørum that research and empowerment are very important It is particularly important in the times we are now in, so that one is bid to meet future, bid to drive innovation, bid to change as well in business as in the labour market or in Norway. This also applies, for example: the public sector. Then I believe that the representative Dørum is wrong when he says that there are two new rest cuts introduced. I also think it is wrong to give the impression that this government is not betting on research. We have invested significantly in the entire field of research since we took over the Government. It is also the case that we have turned more of the research into exactly what I understand the representative Dørum is also concerned about, the nutrition research. In times like these, I think it's very important, because we have to do more of that. The tax FUNN scheme is one example. We're proposing to continue it. So I see that the left will have even more than that. But we've tried to have an important profile in terms of turning more towards nutrition research, as the industry has also asked for. I agree with Mr Dørum that research and empowerment are important and that it is particularly important now. That's also why the government has such a significant investment in it in its proposals for the government budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e607	That's a free word, so the council may think I'm wrong. But those who have had the shoe on think I'm right. Those who work at universities and colleges say that the description I give is correct. It's Dr. Jarle Aarbakke who says that it's right, and that it affects real science and medicine, which gives nutrition development. But let me take the councils of state on the word. The state councils talked about SkattenFUNN. It seems like the government has the principle that it's best to give people a message that they can still be alive, because that's what happens with the TaxFUNN scheme. First, you tighten up the system, and then you leave it a happy message to the people that you haven't abolished the system. The left considers that we should go back to the old limits of the tax FUNN scheme. With the effect it has in the budget for next year, we propose to reintroduce grants for unpaid work. With regard to the TaxFUNN scheme, we know that for every penny that is added to it, you get two dollars back from business. What makes the Government unable to have the strength and strength to invest in the TaxFUNN system, which is unbureaucratic? It affects small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the heart of business, and where there is a great honor and honor in creating a job for themselves and others. What is it that makes the Government unable to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e616	I fully agree that the TaxFUNN system is a very good system, that it is a system we get a lot from, and it is a system that works well. For this reason, the Government has chosen to continue it for the next year. Then I hear that the representative Dørum believes that we should have strengthened it further, but it has to be seen seasily also in connection with the strengthening we otherwise have of various nutrition rights arrangements in research and development, research and development contracts, among others. I believe that the sum of what we have presented, if I now talk about the nutrition part of it, is very good for business, and I also feel that they have been pleased with what we have presented. But then it will always be that there are some industries that say they would like to have more. I believe that the representative of Dørum, who has been in government, has also experienced this. But I feel that the course we are on is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e623	There will be three follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e626	I notice that the Council of State says that it is not right for this government to impose on the university and higher education sector two rest cuts, and then the question could have been as simple as: does the Council of State deny the fact? But then the answer would have to be yes, so I shouldn't ask. But no matter how the state councils deal with this, the university and higher education sectors must carry out major radical cuts as a result of the fact that they are now wearing two rest cuts. Of course, the Progress Party fears that this in turn will go beyond nutrition research and cooperation between universities and colleges and business, and we are now miles away from achieving the goal of 2 pst. GDP shall be industrial research by 2010. Why does the Council of State stand as a passive spectator and watch this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e633	I'm not a spectator of anything, nor of research and development. I agree with the representative, Anundsen, that getting more common links between universities and colleges and business is very sensible. That's why we also have several arrangements that work well with that, and we've also strengthened some of those arrangements. So this government has increased research efforts in total since we took over, and it's just to be able to take into account that there's a lot that we have to get more out of in the future. An example of that, which is very exciting in North Norway, is marine bio prospecting, which is one of the ocean taxes that we've also invested significantly more money on both the current year and next year. So we're able to build the bridge from research to commercialize it, so make money on it a thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e640	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e643	Governments are increasingly finding new and more creative arguments for increasing research efforts. In the historically good economic times we're now about to leave behind, the argument has always been that we can't bet on rising times. While the Right has been concerned that it is just in time for us to invest for the future, the Government has argued against investing in research and knowledge in the future. Now when we go into worse times, the argument is almost the same. Now we can't use money to invest for the future and invest in research and knowledge. Over the four years preceding this reign, the Bondevik government used 90 pst. of the increased space for action in the economy, including: investment in research and transport and in growth-enhancing tax incentives. This government has used 15 pst. on the same measures. The question is, why does the government not charge for research and higher education? And last but not least, why does the Government not charge the TaxFUNN scheme, which is a non-bureaucratic system, for business to research more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e650	When the representative here says that the Government is opposed to increasing the research effort, I must ask her to read our draft budget. There it is, of course, knowing that the government in a broad field is just proposing to increase the research effort, and we are increasing it significantly both in our proposal for the next year and in relation to what we have done in the years after the Bondevik government went off. It is also the way in which we over-comply with what we have said in the national transport plan, as the representative now mentions. The government of which the representative's party was a part was not near it while they were in government. It's okay that you can disagree, and it's probably also that you can use expressions like this government is opposed to increasing the research effort. But when we can, of course, prove that we're increasing it in a broad field, that's the fact, and everyone can read it in our draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e658	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e661	As the questioner had in mind, it is important to focus on the future through an innovative environmental and climate-friendly business and a major effort on research. If we are willing to prioritize, we in Norway have a golden opportunity to invest in the future and future generations by focusing on knowledge and research, as left-wing do. Does the Council agree that it is now the right medicine to invest in research and facilitate climate entrepreneurs and research into climate technologies? I hope that the Council of State has noticed the good proposal for the alternative government budget that the Left has, where we have set up an investment company called Climate Change. Does the Council of State think that is a good measure, and will the Council of State talk positively about it and perhaps even support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e668	I fully agree with the representative of Kongshaug that there are an unbelievably many positive opportunities to be able to do something positive for business as well, to use the knowledge and expertise we have a lot of in Norway to take the environmental challenges seriously. There is a large market for Norwegian enterprises, and then we need marine research and competence and good cooperation between universities and universities and businesses to exploit those opportunities even more. It's a huge market. Some companies have already come a long way – late yesterday I visited someone in Aker Solutions. There are many other examples around the country. To the question of the new company that I understand the Left proposes to set up, it is at least to say that we are now setting up a new company, Investinor, which we feel has been widely supported even here in the house. It's up and going around Christmas times – plus-minus – people are going to be hired, etc. It's a company that gets NOK 2.2 billion at the disposal of, among other things. I'm also going to spend some of that money on energy and the environment. Then it becomes a question of whether you need two of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e675	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e678	I'm not going to ask the Minister of Industry a question. My question goes to the Minister of Culture. There's been a lot of noise around granting local radio concessions – what we used to call near-radio. The reason is that several incorporated and popular-loved radios have lost their concession. One of the most mentioned issues is the conditions that have been around Radio 1 in Oslo, which has lost its concession. The interesting thing is that the Media Regulatory Board, led by a former working party top, insists that the concession be granted to a person who comes from a well-known working party family and has a background as a powerful secretary in the Oslo Workers' Party. The matter is now under consideration at the Labour Party Council Trond Giske. I understand that the Council of State is not in a position to hear complaints from the Parliament's pulpit. I would like the Council of State to state how many complaints have been made about the management of local radio concessions by the Media Authority, and how many workers' party-related businesses that have been granted a concession or that have been set up to obtain a concession, from the Media Authority. Finally, when has the Council of State intended to terminate the review procedure in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e690	It is true that we are dealing with – I think – a dozen complaints about the decisions made by the Media Authority regarding radio concessions. It's a difficult matter, because it's a lot of different radio stations. There are a lot of reasons to take, and there are a lot of listeners who are concerned about how their radio channel is going – the one they like best to listen to. We have a regime where rules, including: from the EU, determines how such cases can be addressed. These must be objective criteria. The criterion assigned to the highest weight is the local content of the various radio stations. It must also be such that new entrants have the opportunity to access and that there is no automatic re-concession of existing radio stations. It must be a real competition. The representative Knudsen asks how many work party-related channels there are. Of course, neither the Media Authority nor the Ministry are asking about the party background of the different radio operators. In that case, it would have to be if the parties were to operate radios themselves. There are examples. Very well known, it's not one of the complaints or issues we're dealing with in the department now, where there are radio channels owned or run by political parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e699	I thank you for that answer. For some time ago, the Business of the Day revealed that of 20 appointments made by the Council of State, Giske, to be important in the cultural sector, the entire eleven were from the Workers' Party and the SV. No one – I repeat no one – had a background from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party or the Advance Party. This, along with relatively significant issues such as this concession case, where a worker party representative gets a good from one who sits centrally and who is formerly working party top, is suitable to weaken the credibility of how to deal with matters of the Council of State. Does the Council of State consider that there might be reason, too many, to doubt whether objective assessments are being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e706	It was a violent leap, from radio concessions to appointments to boards. First of all, it's documented that the numbers in today's business were wrong, there were actually people who were told to belong to different parties, who even said it was wrong. Secondly, there are enough examples of civil politicians being appointed to the positions of different cultural rulers, most recently former financial bureaux in Oslo, André Støilen, who are now appointed as members of the National Museum’s Board of Directors. At Trøndelag Theatre, we have a director who is certainly not a social democrat, etc. That there are very few progress parties, I think more because of the Progress Party, at least so far, lack of interest in the cultural field. With more interest from that team, we're also going to find board members from Knudsen's party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e711	There will be follow-up questions – first Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e714	It is true that the Council of State points out that it is necessary to have good and objective criteria for the radio concessions. Now we see that in the round we've been through now, it's become a lot of waves. Of course, this must not be the case, as the Council of State also pointed out, that it should not be possible to achieve new ones. But: As politicians, we have probably had a very strong look at content, and in many of the messages and matters that have been in Stortinget, we have had a very one-sided focus on content. The round we've been through now could probably point to the fact that maybe you should also have a slightly stronger perception of how the operation was going to happen, i.e. the soundness of the business. I have, when we now have the experience we have, a desire to raise the question to the Council of State: Is there any reason to go back and look at the award criteria – not to make this a purely beauty contest, but to place greater emphasis on operation and long-term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e721	I share by far the views of the representative Thommessen. However, there is a problem, in particular because the EU directive on broadcasting states that there must be no discrimination between those already in service and new challengers. That is also reasonable. New entrants must have a chance to get there, and there must be real competition between them and the existing ones. But, of course, there are many more listeners who want to keep what you know than there are listeners who are cheering new players who have never had the chance to send. Still, I think maybe we have to admit that the criteria this time have been designed a little bit too square. There's a little too little room for discretion and common sense. We should learn from that for the next time we're going to publish concessions in the radio field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e729	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e732	I have noticed the answers from the Council of State to both the one and the other question from the representative Knudsen. I guess we all remember the fight a few years ago when that channel 24 got a concession that P4 had had for many years. This happened after Channel 24 submitted a very well-written concession request. Is the Council satisfied with the way that Channel 24, now Radio Norway, which is more or less a music channel, has complied with its concession? And: Does the Council of State think that this case provides a good basis for depriving well-integrated businesses of concession and giving it to those who are good at writing applications, but who obviously promise more than they can hold?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e739	This is a dilemma of the system we have, but there is no better system at all – in which case we haven't discovered it. We need an application-based grant. But it's clear that that's right what the representative Woldseth says; you don't know how well the different actors will actually meet the conditions that are included in the applications. This is the task of the Media Authority to verify. It's not us politicians who are supposed to watch what the radio stations send. There must be a great degree of freedom, but we have a media surveillance system to ensure that the terms of the concession and the application commitments given are actually met. I am aware that, in the case of Radio Norway, the Media Authority has cases under consideration to see if the promises that were under way as they won over P4 in their time are actually being taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e746	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e749	The Councils of Cultural States may remain standing. One of the joys of being in a majority government must be that you have the prospect of losing your budget. For the Council of Cultural States, I think it'll be a great joy this time, because he's secured an asset of 30 million. kr – a very significant amount, at least in relation to the dimensions we work with within the cultural budget. It's twice as much as last year, and quite many times as much as for example. former state council electord Reply City Haugland had. It is clear that it must be possible to have a position in place in order to deal with crises, and I think it is reasonable that the Council of State should have a certain capacity to act to deal with ongoing issues. But with the previous election campaign in fresh memory, I have to say that it is close to making some reflections on whether this is about strengthening its own electoral campaign budget and also strengthening its own role as a pure benefactor in cultural life – the first with obvious concerns over the border between what we do as politicians and what we do as a Council of State, and the second, I think, with quite great concern about the distance it should be between state and cultural life, and the distance it should be between state council and cultural actors. With $30 million. I imagine a triumph in August – land and beach around – in line with the one we last saw, where you can shake out of the sleeve more or less well-founded projects. We last saw that not everyone was allowed to have the most quality assurance procedure. Is this what we can expect this time too?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e762	My experience is that very much of the budgets in the cultural field are tied up and allocated by completely different actors than the Ministry of Culture. It is largely the Cultural Council, the Audio and Video Foundation and many other actors who decide how to use the money. But it's quite right, as the representative says, that the stock exchange has increased quite a lot, because we see that it has been far too small in relation to the flexibility needed over a year. It is quite right that it has increased a lot in relation to the cultural budgets that were used to under the previous government, but since 2005, the cultural budget has increased by nearly NOK 2 billion. When the mixed item has increased by 20 million. So it's going to be 1 pst. of the increase we've had since the government change. In several years during the Bondevik government, there was actually a real decline in the cultural budget, and then it itself says that such items as the umsepost become quite barbered. In fact, the increase in 2009 is twice the total increase in the four budgets proposed by Bondevik. It tells us something about the dimensions of the Cultural Lift of the Government. The reason we need a great deal of flexibility is because we carry out a lot of major reforms. Over the course of a year, we made ten big messages. There are as many as the former State Council's Reply City Haugland provided in four years. Many major reforms are taking place, including: The onion selection, which looks at the structures of the cultural field. Then there is also a need for some money in preparation for the things that are coming along. When the budget is made, we cannot foresee all the costs we get in implementing all these reforms, and then we need a mixed item.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e773	I understand that it's not just in business you think about having bonuses for good results. I understand that the Minister of Culture also thinks he deserves more room for action for his own joy, also because the cultural budgets have increased. It's a logic that's a little bit difficult to follow. There have been large additions to the budget – it has been quite right – but through the regular budget, there has been room for solving more crises, which could be in the middle of the line. I also notice that the Minister of Culture diligently avoided answering whether or not he intends to use this for a period close to the elections. I think there is a rather central issue in this context – whether the budgetary procedure and what may be the source of budgetary leakages in an electoral campaign are quality assurance. We have no idea of that when it comes to money-drying in August.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e778	The 2009 cultural budget is increasing by nearly SEK 750 million. That's twice as much as the real growth in Bondevik's four budget. 20 million kroner of this is set aside for the stock item. It goes without saying that the reason that the money is in the secondary mail is that they should cover unforeseen expenses. Had it been conditional expenses, we could have placed them where they were needed. There's no difference between dealing with this in the hall. The red-green government has a majority, and cultural life is just as happy with the money if they are adopted by the red-green majority in the Stortinget, or if they come from a variety of places on the cultural budget. The reason why they have to be at the crossroads is that we are carrying out major reforms. We are doing so many improvement measures in the field of culture that we need some money in readiness to take unforeseen costs. The fact that the cultural field is pleased with the cultural promise, for the increase and the great change that came after the government change, is a fact. But it has little to do with the crosspost.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e783	There will be follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e786	I record that the Council of State does not respond with its usual rhetoric to the question from the representative Olemic Thommessen. I also note that the Council of State in Bergen's Official Journal today defends its proposal to do more than double its disposition account with the fact that many projects have been started in the ministry. But this would have been fine enough for the Council of State to back into the budget in the usual way and not put on its disposal account. Too many times in the last three years, representatives of the Committee have come after the Councils of State at festivals and other events where, in advance, the Council of State has distributed generously from its current account, which has increased from 5 million. NOK 37 million in the previous period. kr for 2009. Can the Council of State really defend this use of taxpayers' money for private election campaigns? Is it not the Council of State that is immoral and irresponsible when a number of voluntary teams and organisations around the country are struggling to make ends meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e791	What Mr Woldseth said is wrong. I think she's going to have difficulty documenting a single festival that has received money through a visit by me or other red-green representatives. Festival support in Norway is granted by a separate selection under the Culture Council. The only ones who get money directly from the state budget are the focal points institutions. It is true that through the Cultural Promise we have given rock and blues an increased status by awarding the Notodden Blues Festival and the Øyafestival node status. But there's something else than traveling around and handing out money, as the representative Woldseth says. But it's true that the government is handing out generously to cultural life – $2 billion more since the government change. It means more money for cows and corps, for volunteering, for theater teams – for many activities around the country. The big question is not why we're doing this, but why not others have done it long before, and why the Bondevik government is actually barely investing in culture, with the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e799	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e802	Let me say that I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State does not see the fundamental difference between money granted by a large number of people, even if it had to be red-green, and an availability account on which the Council of State itself sits. It goes right into a core — the way in which the Council of State behaves, is frequently discussed in many places, and cultural life sometimes feels that they need to stay with the Council of State in order to get support. My question is simply whether the Council of State does not see that this is also a problem. It is true that when there are principles of allocation and transparency about where to apply for money, it is possible to check whether the principles have actually been followed. When the Council of State has its own disposition account, it is because the Council of State has to find out what he wants to support. So that means that more people have to log because they see a pot that the council has to handle. It gives less transparency to the decision-making structure. Isn't this a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e809	As I said, the cultural budget has increased by $2 billion since we took over. Twenty million. of this – i.e. the miscellaneous item – is 1 pst. That means 99 pst. is not in the cross-post. That would say something about the relationship between what is actually determined here, and what is there of flexible possibilities to take unforeseen costs. My impression is that cultural life is very pleased with the cultural promise. It's wrong what the representative says, that there's less transparency. On the contrary, we proposed in the 2008 budget that this hall and not the Government should determine the main distribution to the Council of Culture, i.e. how much to go to literature, music, dance, etc. It actually went the right hand side. They thought that it would continue to be determined by the King in the Council of State, instead of in an open debate in the Stortinget. If the representative has now changed his point of view, it is very welcome. I think that's a reasonable change in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e816	The oral question procedure is therefore over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e821	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 2 and 3 from the representatives of Leif Helge Kongshaug and Arne Sortevik, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, will be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold and Ivar Kristiansen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen of the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 11, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Korsberg to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e870	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e876	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘Defence seller/vitter with a lot of vehicles and hangers also in the current year. The reason for this should be a lack of garages. Can the Council of State confirm this, or does she share the questioner's view that if we have equipment we need to carry out the defence's tasks, we will also provide space for this equipment?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e885	The vehicles and trailers to which the representative refers are surplus materials for which the defence no longer needs in the future structure. The material is disposed of continuously as part of the conversion of the Defense, and not as a result of a lack of garage space. Disposal of surplus material will reduce the operational costs of the defence and increase disposal income, while at the same time contributing to the redistribution of resources to higher priority activities. As superfluous material is removed and disposed of, property, buildings and installations that can either be disposed of or used to store material to be carried forward in the future structure are released. The size has, through the treatment of the current long-term defence plan, St.prp. No 42 for 2003–04, joined the goal of reducing the land use of the defence sector to a maximum of 3.5 million. m2 by the end of 2008. Distinguishing and disposing of surplus material is an essential means of reducing land use. Disposal is also important to meet the income targets adopted by the Storting through the annual government budgets. The defence's need for garages and warehouses is a matter on which we have a high focus. The needs are concretely identified through long-term structural planning. This includes, among other things: as a result of a large sector need for new garages and warehouses. A number of such projects are therefore already planned in the coming years. It is very important that we dispose of materials that we no longer need in the defence structure adopted by the Storting. This contributes to both rational and cost-effective operations while at the same time increasing defence revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e901	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to what an officer said on the Defence Network, it was due to a lack of garage ring. I understand that the defence either does not have enough garages or that you cannot afford to use the garages you have. I've been on a lot of visits to military camps in Norway through my time in the Defence Committee – it's starting to happen a few years now – and what I've seen is that equipment is standing next to an empty garage. It tells me that there is something wrong with the defense. One owes it to an economy that makes the individual camp, the individual department, cannot afford to rent their own garage, and the equipment is out and destroyed. But what was on the Defence Network was that it was due to a lack of garage ring. Among other things, 250 Bandwagon 206 was to be sold. There is a vehicle that the Defence has today and that the Defence shall be used for many years to come. There were plant machines that I know well about, which are used today, and you have the same type of plant machinery elsewhere in Norway and abroad. These included: 100 six-wheelers that the defense has today, which you use in the operation, and which you're hoping to use further. And there were 380 hangers, some kind of hangers that the defense has today, that you use today, and that you're going to use in the future. Then it seems strange to me that you owe me for a lack of garage. The Council of State now told us to build more garages. But you can probably use the garages you also have when the equipment is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e912	The material that we now have, and that we're going to have for the future, doesn't necessarily go into the garages that you've had in the past. In that case, it is sometimes necessary to dispose of garages because they are no longer suitable for the material that you have and for which you have planned in the future structure. But it's not that we want to dispose of the materials that we need, because of lack of garage space. Instead, the projects will be included in the plans for new garages that the Defence needs. The material disposed of is material for which the defence no longer needs. For example: Some hangers, these are the hangers who write their way back to the 1950s, which cannot necessarily be used today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e917	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am not quite satisfied with. I don't know if I understood the council correctly. But if it's the case that there are no garages large enough or suitable for those six-wheelers, which are lower than this pulpit, I don't understand anything. The hangers are also relatively low, and part of the other equipment is also low and not very wide. I may have misunderstood the answer that I received, but I do not understand that there are no garage spaces that are adapted to the equipment. That was earlier, when I was an officer, and that's for sure now. Furthermore, I can ask: is there enough transfer from one line of defence to another and from the Defense to, for example, Civil defence or other users of equipment with which the defence can get away – and I underline: can it get away with? I know, among other things. that the Home Protection System did not receive the equipment that was promised in 2007. Maybe the Home Office or other organizations can take over some of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e926	I maintain that the defense does not dispose of equipment that the defense needs. Nor is it the case that the disposal of equipment should be justified by the absence of garages. Here it is a question of how to adapt the equipment and the amount of equipment you have to the future structure. I will again give the example with some hangers as I know it is planned to scrape. That's about. 500 American hangers from the 1950s who are in very poor condition. We have a lot of hundreds of Mercedes 240 that are going to be disposed of because they are in very poor condition, and because the defense per. they are not needed today. Other material is sold if it does not fit the structure, not on the basis of lack of garages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e954	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e960	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e963	I allow myself to ask the following questions: « Member States sold in 2005 Nes quickly to private investors in the Lødningen. The fort was marketed as excellent for, among other things, tourism, something to which buyers relate. In recent years, wages have lost a significant number of government jobs. Plans are now in place for the property that can contribute to the creation of many new jobs. Objection to the plans of the new owner has been rejected by the municipality and the county. Will the Council of State now make a decision so that Nes fort-property can develop as provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e972	It is true that the regulation plan for Nes quickly in the municipality of Lødingen has been transferred to the Ministry of the Environment for decision, because there are objections from the District Management Board of the Rein driftsverwaltung in Troms. It is proposed to regulate, inter alia, the former area of defence. 500 holiday homes, hotels and other tourist development. There are plans to place approx. 300 recreational buildings in the western part of the level area. The current buildings are intended to be used for travel purposes. The district management board of the Rein driftsverwaltung in Troms explains the complaint that the plans do not take into account the basic rights and interests of the reindeer in the area. Saka has been carefully assessed in the department and is also sent to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for assessment. The Ministry of the Environment shall then carry out a holistic assessment, where different interests and concerns are placed on behalf of each other. The process of the items is now in the final phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e981	Here, I do not think the Ministry of the Environment could have done its lesson – if you are not even aware in the department that it was the Norwegian State that sold the Nes Fort plant after a comprehensive marketing round, and that even quickly marketed the defence plant Nes as excellent for food development and excellent use for tourist purposes. Then a buyer has gone on this and made big plans. Of course, it will lead to development in the direction that the State itself recommended a buyer to do. Meanwhile, the municipality of Lødingen has lost a series of state jobs. Should it not soon be understood that the Norwegian State has a responsibility at least to implement what the State itself has provided through the sales process and to ensure that there is an advance in the proceedings so that badly needed jobs in the Lødingen can see the light of day?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e993	I hope that the representative Ivar Kristiansen of the Right Party is fundamentally in agreement with both myself and the Ministry of the Environment that in a state of law like Norway, in the democracy of which we are very proud, it is such that when one has a right of appeal, a right of objection, and benefits from it, he will of course be dealt with according to all the rules of art, whatever a person may mean, or whatever consideration lies behind the purpose of objecting. All objections to the ministry must be dealt with in accordance with all the rules of art. And it is done in the Ministry of the Environment, while, of course, those who are fully informed about the difficult situation in which the municipality of Lødningen is. But, as I said, one must also consider the whole real objection that has come, real because one has a right to object. The case is being dealt with, and, as I referred to, the Ministry of the Environment is now at the end of the complaint procedure. That means that a decision will be made in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e998	Of course, right is following the legal principles that apply in the state, but I don't understand what is so difficult in this case, what makes a process so significant that it goes on for one year and yet you haven't been able to make a decision by the state. There are no difficulties in this matter at all. Local reindeer has not protested. The sewerage industry was fully purchased in 1987 from the existing agreement by which the Defence then took over. As I said, the municipality and county council in Northernland have rejected the complaint. And again, I repeat that the state in its sale of the property marketed this as very suitable for developing tourism. And, as I said, it's urgent for the Solution to get jobs in place. Here, someone is offering a relocation municipality new jobs. Will the Council of State ensure that this matter is dealt with quickly now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1005	When the Ministry of the Environment reports that they are at the end of the proceedings, this means that a decision is not long ahead of them. It's in the nature of the matter. So it is to say that when a person receives a complaint, one must just go in and look at the whole matter and the assessments that have been made, both by the municipality and by the county, to which the representative refers, but also, as I said, go into what is the basis for the complaint. There is, of course, the situation in which the municipality of Lødingen is located, in which the Ministry of Environment is fully informed, and which we can all understand is extremely difficult. When a person loses such a large and important job as the Defense has been for many years, everyone understands the need to be able to turn around. One has a project that's interesting, but it can't take from the District Council a completely legitimate right in the state of Norway to file a complaint. Then the complaint will be dealt with thoroughly and according to all the rules of art. However, the Ministry of the Environment is, as I said, at the end of the case, and a decision will be taken as soon as the last remainder is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1015	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: ‘When the Zenterpartie Borten Moe gave an opinion on price control of agricultural property in the Nation on 2 October, he said, among other things: ‘I could focus on the bureaucracy that must be kept in the spirit of taxpayers’ money to manage this, but basically concentrates on finding that at my discretion this is harmful to nutrition and a serious infringement of the property rights of individuals.’ Is the Council of State in agreement with Mr Borten Moe that price control is harmful to industry and a serious infringement of individual property rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1024	When examining concession applications relating to agricultural property, it shall include, inter alia: particular attention is paid to whether the agreed price corresponds to socially sound price developments. A socially sound price of agricultural property shall be understood as a price which contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. The aim of price controls is to weaken the recruitment of active professionals to the industry and to facilitate ownership of agricultural property that provides a basis for good and long-term resource management. Furthermore, provision shall be made for income opportunities and social conditions that create stable full-time and part-time agricultural jobs. Price controls also have a bearing on framework conditions and financial transfers to agriculture. Increased prices lead to increased costs of capital in agriculture. The price of agricultural property shall, in concessional terms, reflect the value of the property of the agricultural holding and as a place of residence. I believe that the rational practice of price control is an important part of the agricultural policy for which the majority of the population stands, and that it is an advantage for the industry. I understand what my party colleague Borten Moe thinks about when he writes that the price control can be ‘a gross infringement of individual property rights’. Some farmers who sell their property feel that they are not getting enough money back for areas, buildings and many years of effort. It is easy to forget the situation of the next owner when you withdraw yourself. But this includes, among other things: in order to secure the operational and income opportunities for the next owner, we cannot have a fully marketable price development on agricultural properties as it is on other types of real estate. I consider price control to be an instrument to keep prices of agricultural property at a reasonable level, adapted both to the profitability of the industry and to an active agricultural policy where market prices and government budget appropriations are determined in negotiations with industry. In my opinion, it is not appropriate to combine a strong and active agricultural policy where society takes responsibility for income opportunities and framework conditions, with a free pricing of properties based on market liberalism. Therefore, prices of agricultural property must be assessed in a long-term perspective and not according to individual generation expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1031	I would like to thank you for your answer, although it is clear that the debate in the Central Party has not spread into the government offices. State price regulation of property is, in my view, an antiquarian and unsuccessful socialist heritage. It is almost absurd that farmers should be deprived of their property values in this way. So the result is that the country's agricultural population gets its property values weakened by billions of dollars. Nor can I understand that the government and the centre party believe it is a problem that the buyer and seller of a farm agree on a different price than the income potential of the farm. The example of Obere Vilberg farm illustrates this in an almost unpleasant way. But I am asked a professional question to the Council of State: How is it to the detriment of Norwegian agriculture that the purchaser and seller of a farm themselves agree on a purchase price?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1040	It is not harmful that the purchaser and the seller agree on a price on a farm. That's the usual, and that's what has to happen. The starting point for price regulation is that one believes it is right that there is a socially sound price for an agricultural property, which allows the acquirer to acquire the property in a way that will enable it to operate properly in the future. It is also true that in an industry dependent on transfers, property prices have a cost-effective aspect, and one must also include this issue in that context. In that case, it is appropriate to have a regulated system and not a free setting of prices for agricultural properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1045	Price control is not the only centre party approach that weakens the development of District Norway. The obligation to live is another cappphest that the government is doing its best to keep living in. We already know that agricultural housing has the consequence that 35,000 farms are in decline around the country instead of being traded and refurbished. The central party policy has thus seen quite clear consequences in District Norway. The new thing is that the government's own research body, Building Research, now crushes the myth that the housing obligation has an effect on year-round housing. Building research indicates that municipalities with a dwelling obligation do not have any larger all-year residence than non-residential municipalities. Nevertheless, the Government will tighten up the obligation to live and impose the obligation to live on inheritance. Thus, people who inherit the family home will be confiscated by the State through forced sale if the dwelling cannot be used on an annual basis. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is a crazy project, a gross and unfounded interference in people's property rights that needs to be put in the drawer immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1054	It is well known that the Right claims that the liberalisation of housing rules will lead to more settlement in the countryside. In the last week, as the representative of Hansen also stresses, they have received support for their views in a very recent research report from the Norwegian Centre for Rural Research in the field of housing properties – I stress residential real estate properties. I want to question the results of the Norwegian urban research centre, and I want to underline some points in this regard. Firstly, we are not talking about rules that will lead to housing growth in a municipality, but about rules that will prevent changes in use from homes to leisure properties. So it is that all-year homes are wanted to be used for leisure homes, a desire to stop through the legislation that has been assessed. This has to a small extent been assessed in the study for the municipalities on which the report is based. I think the problem is much bigger in the coastal municipalities covered by the report than in the municipalities of the hinterland with which the report compares.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1062	‘The so-called capital process in Health South-East will mean major changes in the hospital structure in Oslo. It is a matter of people living in urban areas in Oslo Sør to change local hospitals, that Groruddalen's total population receives the University Hospital in Akershus as a local hospital as well as a comprehensive collection of specialities – in other words significant changes that will affect the hospital supply to the population of Oslo. Will the changes be fully administratively decided, or will they also be subject to a political assessment?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1069	As you know, health south-east RHF is in the process of major conversion work following the merger of Health South and Health East in 2007. The aim of the pooling was to improve coordination and resource use in the merged region in general and in the capital area in particular, see below. St. pp. No 44 for 2006-2007. The Capital Region has been used as an aggregate term for Oslo and Akershus. In the capital area there are five hospitals: the Rikshospitalet HF, Ullevål University Hospital HF, Aker University Hospital HF, Akershu University Hospital HF and the Hospital Asker and Bærum HF. In addition, there are two private hospitals with an operating contract, the Diakon home and Lovisenberg, one special hospital, Sunnaas, and one private hospital, Martina Hansens Hospital. This means that a total of nine hospitals are available for a population of well over 1 million in the capital area. According to Health South-East, one of the main interventions is the establishment of hospital areas, where hospitals cooperate and coordinate treatment provision for the population in the area. Hospital services shall be differentiated in local and more specialised services and the planning and development of the service provision shall be undertaken in an obliging interaction with the municipalities. Health South East has proposed in the consultation document to establish seven hospital areas. In the case of hospitals in the capital city area, Ullevål University Hospital, Aker University Hospital, the Rikshospitale, Diakonhemmet Hospital Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital are proposed to constitute the Hospital Area Centre. Akershus University Hospital is proposed to form the East Hospital Area, while the Asker Hospital and the Bærum Hospital are proposed to the West Hospital Area. The Ministry has requested that there be a framework around the process that provides the basis for real dialogue and participation. As the representative is well known, the Capital Process was sent to a wide-ranging hearing on 20 October 2008. According to Health South-East RHF, 200 hearing opinions have been received. Based on the proposals and consultation opinions, Health South-East RHF shall draw up a proposal for the organisation of specialist health services in the region, to be managed by the Management Board meeting in Health South-East RHF on 19 November 2008. This is in line with the model of health enterprises and with the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Health Business Act, which assigns responsibility for the organisation of the group of enterprises within the region to the board of the regional health enterprise. However, matters of major importance for the pursuit of policy objectives and matters of major importance for principle or society shall be submitted to the Ministry as its owner. This is the result of Section 30 of the Health Business Act. What are the issues involved must be specifically assessed in each case. I agree with the representative that the proposed changes in Health South-East could mean changes for many patients and many of the employees. For this reason, I can assure you that I am following the conversion work carefully, so that the population in the capital area is guaranteed good treatment. Not least, I want to make sure that final decisions are in line with the assumptions made by the Stortinget at the Innst. S. No 167 for 2006-2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1097	I thank you for your answer, which was a lot of process. We are now approaching the end of this process, and I understand that the Council of State keeps the door open so that he, as the responsible Council of State, finally comes into the picture. When I ask about this, it's also because it's within the political realms of this city, which may have more knowledge of this process than others, is asking big questions about it. Jan Bøhler, head of the Oslo Workers' Party and vice-chairman of the Health Committee, says the following to Nordstrands Blade: ‘Oslo Arbeiderparti wants Oslo to be a coherent health region. We want better cooperation within the municipality, and this proposal seems to go in the opposite direction I can't sit passively looking at health-Norway changing in one, in my opinion, negative direction." [[...]] My question to the Council of State is whether there is anything in that process so far, as he sees it, that gives reason to such an interpretation as the representative of Bohemia expresses?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1109	Now it remains to be seen the decision. It has been a very comprehensive and broad consultation process. I have the very clear impression that Health South-East is prepared to go thoroughly through the hearing opinions that have come, with a view to adjusting the proposal if you think it is right – based on input. So it's like these recordings are cracking something, so there's no clear recommendation in the hearing opinions. Then it is important for me to stress that the capital process is about getting good and equivalent healthcare to the citizens of Oslo, but it is also going to benefit the other parts of Health South-East – and indeed the country as well. It is this holistic perspective health south-east must bring with it when they are now going to make final decisions, and I feel sure they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1116	With over 200 hearing opinions, I guess there's a lot to do for everyone to go in the same direction. At the same time, the Council of State now addressed some of the core issues, namely that the capital process is part of a major reform within a region that now covers 2.6 million inhabitants. The point is that even if it benefits the region as such, it may feel as if you are failing locally — for example. Maybe many in Oslo will feel that way when the final result comes on the table. But I understand, for the Council of State, the overall result of this process is the primary one, the top priority, and possibly the different health enterprises and regions within this large region.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1123	What comes first is the patient. Then the rest is organization. But it's not relevant to say that the patient in Oslo has any interests here, but for the sake of the organisation, the patient in Oslo's interests has to give up. It's not up to date. It would not be at all relevant for me to accept that Health South-East comes out with a final scheme that leads to patients in Oslo getting a worse offer. So that would be the overall approach to my assessment and the ministry's assessment of the processes in Health South-East. So, in my opinion, it's not that good patient treatment necessarily has to mean that all parts of Oslo have to be within the same healthcare company. I think it can be completely possible to defend that patients in Oslo get a good health offer even if some of the patients get their offer from another healthcare company in the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1133	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘I have previously asked the Minister of Health about the impact of the proposal for a National Protection Plan on the state sector, without adequate answers. The Council of State can clarify and ensure that a natural expansion of a health institution is not prevented, if necessary. are compensated for by the practice of this plan in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1142	With the government's proposal, the specialist health service will receive a total budget of about DKK 100 billion next year. Within this framework, the sector shall provide good health care to the population. However, it is also within sectoral responsibility to discharge social responsibility in many other areas, including cultural memory protection. It is unclear whether cultural memory protection will entail additional costs — if any — for hospitals. We see that a number of hospitals have taken care of buildings and properties in an exemplary way in relation to a cultural memory perspective, without this being perceived as an additional cost. One must, of course, realize that, in some contexts, it may have implications for the economy relating to the management and operation of certain buildings and properties, but one has, on the part of the authorities, provided that this is to be resolved within the overall framework of the sector. In other words, no specific means will be allocated to follow-up to this plan or to the expected safeguard decisions. It is important that the health sector contributes to the protection of a range of cultural memories and environments that document the history and development of the sector. The consequences of formal protection are that health businesses must establish a dialogue with the cultural memory protection authorities on issues relating to the development of protected buildings and properties. In this dialogue, the cultural memory protection authorities will be able to provide guidance and advice on how to address both the need for protection and the need for the development of any protected building. If these two considerations appear to be incompatible, the protection authorities must consider the possibility of granting a derogation, or whether the safeguard decision should be waived. In such cases of exemption, etc. the protection authorities will stay vigilant against an assessment in the interests of society. This means that, in concrete cases, protection concerns may outweigh the specific societal concerns of the case and that the specialist healthcare service will then have to find other ways to meet its development needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1151	I thank you for your answer. In my original written question to the Council of State, I asked if the Minister of Health and Health could assure you that a safeguard decision did not prevent or argue against the further natural development of an institution. The answer I received was largely that the consequences were that the cultural memory authorities had to deal with the development of the institution in the future. The answer was somewhat more complete today, and I thank you for that. However, the proposal available, and the response of the Council of State, have led to considerable concern and frustration both internally in the individual institution and in the community, which are anxious to depriate their hospital due to protection considerations. I therefore ask the Council of State whether he will propose that any safeguard decisions be compensated with financial support for, for example. alternative buildings, if the protection prevents the natural development of an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1160	I feel that it is very difficult to answer that question in general. If we try to imagine a specific situation, there may be a current hospital that needs to make initial investments in order to provide good patient care – and then you have a building that is worthy of protection. This will allow an assessment of the cost of making those investments, but will nevertheless meet the requirements of the protection authorities, and ensure that it will be more expensive than the investment you really wanted to make. So you have to evaluate it when you know that answer. If it becomes very expensive to do this, you have to consider whether you can do it another way, for example. through a new building. And then I think we just have to keep looking at the situation that individual health businesses are facing. If there are some health companies that are in an impossible situation because they have sheltered buildings, I cannot in principle refuse to talk to them, because we are going to take care of the needs of the population for health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1165	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to give an example to my question. Large hospital in the Health West has 60,000 people in its vicinity and is part of Health Fonna with nearly 180,000 people in its impact field. The major hospital was completed in the 1960s and 1970s and barely written down. So then comes the issue of cultural memory protection – a discussion itself if we have come so far that we are building to protect. I'll leave it. But it must be allowed to ask how many time-typical buildings there is a need to protect. In addition, if that's the case for a protective decision, it must be a clear condition that this will not come into effect until all interested parties are involved and a plan for development can be put in place. Such a process may take up to five years. So my question to the Council of State will be whether he will help that, in the case of the protection of buildings, it is set up to a process in advance that can ensure the protection of all interests, and avoid hasty and cramping decisions and plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1172	I think the representative Halleraker here is concerned with something that is very important, namely that protection processes must take place in processes. There must be a good dialogue between health businesses and cultural memory protection authorities to identify both the need for protection and the nature of the restrictions on the protection, possibly the nature of the additional costs of protection, and so that the protection processes are not isolated from the needs of health professionals to provide good health services. As I also said in my main response, we are very concerned to have a good dialogue with the cultural memory protection authorities and that in this dialogue not only guidance can be given, but also that the matter can be widely informed, so that no one takes a decision in a vacuum. Otherwise – if the President allows: I have been visiting sheltered buildings that have become stunningly beautiful and that have been maintained in a cheaper way than the alternative, new buildings, would have been. It's very nice to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1181	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1187	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1190	‘The government wants to be at least as ambitious in its climate policy as the EU. The commitment to renewable energy is both important to cut CO2 emissions in the future, and it is also good food and energy policy. A surplus of power can be exported to provide the EU with more CO2-free energy. In the Technical Weekend, the Government says that it wants to negotiate possible obligations in the EU renewable directive, inter alia, on the basis of the focus on poor network capacity. How does such a signal harmonize with celebrations of Norway as an energy nation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1203	What is happening in Europe affects Norway to a great extent. We have become increasingly integrated into the European energy market, and international framework conditions have become important for Norway. I think it is gratifying that the EU has high targets in renewable energy, and we still want close cooperation. Norway is a country with large energy resources. It applies to both water power and wind power. We distinguish ourselves from other countries by the fact that Norwegian electricity production is almost totally water-powered. Within the EU, efforts are now being made to develop a single European energy market. Norway supports these developments. Among other things, the new cable to the Netherlands is an important contribution to this development. Nor should we forget that Norwegian exports of gas contributed positively to Europe’s replacement of coal in electricity production. A gas-using power plant will emit significantly less CO2 than one that uses coal. This is a climate action that is important in the short term, before being adequately developed with renewable energy. Furthermore, the Government has launched a significant effort to develop technology to remove most of the CO2 emissions from coal and gas power plants. This can help to make the application of this type of technology cheaper in European power plants. Norway has high ambitions in new renewable energy and more efficient use of energy. We have seen a target of increasing the annual production of renewable energy, as well as energy efficiency, by 30 TWh from 2001 to 2016. Enova is the government's tool in re-investment, environmentally friendly energy and energy efficiency. Enova will get the most results from the money, has a simple target and has a stable and good budget. This year, Enova spends nearly 2 billion dollars. This is more than five times as much as Enova disposed of in 2002. We propose a further long-term strengthening of the commitment to renewable energy through Enova. Enova's work has produced good results. For the period 2001 to 2007, Enova has assisted in saving or producing a total of 10.1 TWh of new environmentally friendly energy. The government is also working on the organization of offshore wind power. This is a new area of energy policy and requires a holistic approach through, among other things, the development of legislation, research and development of technologies. So Norway has high ambitions in climate policy, and we have high ambitions in renewable energy. When it comes to the Renewable Directive, I would like to stress that the treatment of it follows normal procedures. This includes, inter alia: that the Directive must be adopted in the EU before Norway may include it in its policy. It is also important to stress that Norway is in a different situation from other European countries when it comes to renewable energy. First, we already have a much higher share of renewable energy than all EU countries, about 60 pst. Our hydropower is the main reason for that. Secondly, Norway’s situation is different in terms of security of supply in the energy field. Security of supply has been stressed in the Renewables Directive. All of this is a matter that should be taken into account in the Government’s work on the Renewable Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1228	There was a lot of well-known substance here. Nevertheless, the Council of State does not touch on the major challenge, namely the signals sent by the Government so far, each time the EU's renewable directive has come up. That was when the Minister of Oil and Energy spoke on the NVE energy days, and when he spoke at Statnett's Winter Conference. Then there was nothing to suggest that a person would go in and support the renewable directive if the EU adopted it – and there must be a presumption that they do. All the while, the focus was on trying to reduce their obligations, as two articles in the Technical Weekend have also shown in the last two weeks. Instead of trying to be a driver in order to get a big stake in this area, the focus for Norway has been to try to reserve itself against the obligation that an EU directive could become. It sends a very bad signal to the industry. For one thing, the parties we now heard about are how nice we should be. Another thing is the tools the government actually comes with, which is essentially going in the opposite direction. Then a question has to be asked: Where are the government's signals that a person should be involved in this and commit himself to the EU's renewable directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1235	Let me first commend the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen for the commitment he has, and the insight he shows in an area that is actually also important to the Government. That's what I'm going to show up in the answer too. The Government now assesses whether the Renewable Directive is EEA-relevant and whether it is to be incorporated into Norwegian law. It's a big deal. It is a matter that has both legal and political aspects. It is quite clear that Norway has high ambitions in climate policy, as well as high ambitions in relation to renewable energy, and we are very pleased with the EU's offensive policy in these areas. At the same time, Norway is in a different situation from other European countries when it comes to renewable energy. This means that we are responsible for actively following up Norwegian interests in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1242	I do not doubt that the government wants to give the impression that it is betting on prohibitive energy. The problem with the EEA Directive is that when a whole focus is on a desire to reduce commitments, it gives a completely wrong signal both to the Norwegian industry and to the EU in relation to the role Norway itself wants to take as an energy nation. Norway is a major energy exporter to the EU. Many European countries would not have worked energylessly without Norwegian oil and gas and sometimes Norwegian electricity, and then we would say that no, we don't want this, we want to scale it down. Then there is also a debate in Norway, as the government parties are behind, about cutting oil and gas production, as SV will. There will be a need for 334,000 windmills to replace oil production in Norway last year, with one year of windmill production. It creates uncertainty, and then the government should say to a greater extent that we want the EEA Directive to be applied in Norway, whether we are obliged or not, because we want to be confirmed as an energy nation. Can the Council of States confirm that confirmation will come, and not create more uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1251	Let me first say a little bit about the process itself. Indeed, the draft renewable directive is now under consideration in the European Parliament. The target is a final decision in the EU, in the Council, in the spring of 2009. The government is actively pursuing both our own ambitions in Norway and the Norwegian interests in this matter. I now understand that the Party of Progress will not accept this Directive before it has been finalised. There is a hold that the Government cannot have. The Renewable Directive has not been finalised. Nor can we now know what the consequences will be if the directive is implemented in this country. But we stick to the ambitions we have on behalf of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-12.ana.ud694e1268	This question has been withdrawn. That concludes today's Question Time. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
