ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e72	The representative Berit Brørby, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The request for a permit for care by the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen shall be submitted from 17 January to 31 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The representative of thevariety, Knut Gjerde, is invited to attend during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e93	Knut Girde is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e99	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today's meeting. The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e108	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, Jan Sahl and myself, I would like to propose a lower annual fee and support system for the retrofitting of particulate filters on diesel-powered vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e113	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e116	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Åge Starheim and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative exemption for people over 70 years of age to drive passenger transport for remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e134	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines after the post of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e143	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:98 for 2006-2007 on the investigation and deployment of the Internet-based service portal for the purchase of places in child protection measures. The Committee is divided into its views on a service portal, but the entire Committee stresses the importance of ensuring that all children under the care of child protection are entitled to good measures adapted to the needs of individual children. The protection of children shall offer measures based as far as possible on knowledge and research. This is also emphasised by both the Department and the Bufdir. The development and implementation of knowledge-based methods in the field of child protection is a high priority objective. Proposals propose an investigation on the design and implementation of an Internet-based service portal for the purchase of places in child protection measures. They refer to the Danish offer portal, which provides an overview of various social services services. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to point out that the tasks performed by the National Child Protection Service in Norway are carried out in Denmark by the municipalities. This may lead to a greater need for an overview of the institutions in Denmark as there are many decision-makers. Bufetate currently has information available on all approved private institutions on its website. In view of the fact that child protection is organised as it is in Norway, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre believe that an Internet portal will be of limited value to decision-makers. We will stress the importance of greater transparency in child protection, and it will be important in this context to consider expanding the information on Bufatat's websites to public institutions as well. The members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party of the Committee would stress that the institutions of NPISHs should be given priority over commercial actors in the purchase of child protection measures. It is important to ensure the social involvement of non-profit organisations and to facilitate good and committed cooperation between state child protection and non-profit organisations. The Danish offer portal is based on a single price system which, in the view of these members, provides institutions and measures with little predictability and poor framework conditions. In addition, it is not relevant for the Government to put public institutions out to competition. The members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party therefore propose that this proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e158	In the ongoing debate we have had on child protection, it has struck me how difficult it is to verify many of the claims we get made - it may be from the parties involved or in particular also as in today's Evening Post, where the Council of State claims that the State takes responsibility for the heaviest users. Transparency is a necessary prerequisite for good political debate and the exercise of power. In this perspective, too, the flow of information about child protection is a reflection. But transparency and accessibility are important primarily because they provide better opportunities for good child protection. Slow information flow hampers the effort to find the best tailored offers for the children. Lack of ability to compare public and private actors provides poorer and less relevant overview and weaker basis to identify the best possible offers at the right price. The right has therefore promoted this proposal, which is also supported by the other opposition parties, where we propose to introduce a good, informative, accessible and up-to-date e-offer portal, where all those who might be interested in it are given the opportunity to gain insight into the various offers of child protection - the quality of the offer and the overview of the actors operating in this market. Portals with information bases on welfare services are well integrated in our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, hospitals have started, and in Denmark, a portal has been introduced which includes an even wider range of welfare services. In addition to the provision of child protection, there is everything about the provision of disabled people, emergency services, services to drug users, care for the elderly, etc. The right in the government called for a more user-friendly presentation of our public services where the ambition was to increase the accessibility of users. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that this work is planned to continue. We believe that child protection is in a special position in terms of the need for transparency. Never before have we met a sector that is struggling more with distrust, fear culture and clear signs of frustration in the system. We now need a policy that creates trust and good, predictable employment. Then transparency and good access to information are a key. In particular, we feel that the proposal is well supported by parents, employees of public and private child protection, stakeholder organisations, researchers and others with an interest in access to information. Unfortunately, we see that the government parties and the government are going into the ideological trenches and are countering measures that could help to make child protection work easier, help to give children better opportunities and contribute to more stable conditions throughout the sector. The arguments of the government parties in the comments on the case are very defensive in recognition of the importance of transparency and availability in information, and are tactfully consistent with the ideological stresses of the Government on the risks of competitive outsourcing and price financing. In yesterday's debate in the Question Time, I noticed that the Council of State, referring to the children of municipal child protection, thought we had no crisis in child protection. So now it's the state child protection we're dealing with. And our impression, based on the many requests we get, is enough that there is a significant need for action that creates peace and stability in this system. This is, in fact, an ideologically justified blow from the Government against the private institutions, and it is about the weakest and most vulnerable children, which are, of course, those who are subject to state child protection. For my part, I find it a little undressed by a government that is sung in solidarity with and caring for the weakest to make these exactly a balancing post, when, therefore, one will rigidly and slightly target a socialist policy in which ideology appears to be the main thing. I also take up the proposal behind the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e177	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e180	It is important to bet on greater transparency in the state child protection. Openness includes, inter alia: that public information is easily accessible. In this context, a public overview of all national child protection institutions, as proposed by an Internet portal for the protection of children, will be positive. However, I do not want to equate the use of public, ideal and commercial actors in child protection. All children under the care of child protection are entitled to an offer tailored to the individual needs of the child. My task is to make sure that the best possible offers are made to the children. In line with the majority of the Stortinget, the Children's, Youth and Family Act prioritises its own institutions. Then, non-profit institutions must be given priority over commercial ones. The proposers behind Document No. 8:98 has proposed an Internet-based service portal for the purchase of child protection services. They point out that much has happened in the ideal and commercial institutions, by the fact that unprofessional actors have closed out, that competence and diversity are high and that idealists dominate. They also fear that if private actors disappear, we will lose professional orientations and methodological approaches. The protection of children shall offer measures based as far as possible on knowledge and research. I believe it is important to give children and young people an offer with a high professional level, and development in the field is a high priority. Child protection costs money. Increased use of foster homes and home-based care, together with the good use of state-owned institutions, will help reduce the cost of child protection. At the same time, this would result in a minor use of commercial child protection services irrespective of whether or not a service portal for child protection services is used. However, I would add that the commercial institutions are an important complement to the work of state and non-profit institutions. In the case of the approval of institutions, it is such that non-profit institutions and commercial institutions have to be recognised in accordance with the authorisation regulation. The children’s, youth and family budget may only agree with and purchase places from approved institutions. The quality assurance of state institutions is followed up in accordance with the Quality Regulation. Although subject to different procedures by private and public authorities, they are in practice subject to the same quality requirements. The proposal for an Internet-based service portal is based on the ideas behind the Danish offer portal. It provides an overview of the range of services offered within child protection institutions and the social sector as a whole. The portal provides the possibility for purchasers of child protection services to apply for a customised offer to the individual child. The services, which are provided by the National Child Protection Service in Norway, are provided by the municipalities in Denmark. The many decision-makers in the Danish scheme thus need a more comparable tool than in the Norwegian scheme, where the Barne, Youth and Family budget is the only buyer of the services. The establishment has internal systems for placement within the premises available at all times. Since the children’s, youth and family budget is the only buyer of institutional places, a service portal will not be in force in Norway. On the websites of the Children’s, Youth and Family Services, there is today an overview of the approved ideal and commercial child protection institutions. Contact addresses, county and number of approved locations can be found. On the Bufetat website, we want to expand that information. In the first instance, it would be natural to include overviews of the institutions with which Buffetat has a contract and information on public institutions. I would also like to look at the possibilities of providing other relevant information that can contribute to greater transparency on child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e206	Now I hope I heard wrong, otherwise this is a reprisal of what we hear about kindergartens. Can the Council of State say whether it is right that she does not want to equate public, non-profit and private institutions? We who have a history in this field know that at the end of the 1990s, in Norway, there was a reform in which large parts of the public child protection institutions were closed because they wanted to leave it to private. Then I wonder, what kind of predictability and employment are the private institutions getting in 2008, if that's right, what I heard, that the Council of State no longer wants to equate public, idealistic and private institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e213	I have heard throughout this debate that we are putting ideology in front of the children, but I would like to point out that this government wants to go in a different direction - a different political direction than what has happened before. We have clearly said that we want good institutions, but we want public and ideal institutions complemented by commercial institutions. That's why we want to have more transparency about what service they're offering. I've said several times that I want predictability for everyone, that I want openness about what we buy, and that I want good processes that put the children first. That's the situation. But the procedures for choosing an institution, whether private or public, are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e218	We have good contact with many in private child protection and with the stakeholder organisations. We notice that very many of these people want a service portal, or a website for that matter, which can provide a broader information, and I have carefully noticed that the Council of State has been attending a while on the way. But the question is, how does the Council of State think of this in relation to the state institutions? Both the comments and the letter from the Council of State have indicated that the state institutions could be incorporated into the information base they have. We want to point out the importance of these coming, and that they not only come with names and addresses, but that you actually get a picture of costs, capacities and, most importantly, what kind of offer they represent. Will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e225	It was not very difficult to meet transparency requirements, because that is what I have said since I started. I want a greater degree of openness with regard to child protection, and I also know that Buffetat wants greater transparency. But our premises for the Internet portal are different, and that's what I stress. How we're going to work out this in detail, and what we're going to do in those services, are questions I'm going to go on to my office. But the line is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e231	When we saw what Bufatat had of information on his website, we weren't very impressed with the institutions. That's why the Christian People's Party is with and supports the service portal proposal, because we see that one can be made visible in a way that exists. The Christian People's Party and the Left have a note in the settings where we point out that the ideal child protection institutions are an important alternative to state institutions, and that it is important to ensure that they are properly operated and funded. Now it may seem that the Council of State wants only public institutions in the first place. The Christian People's Party wants us to have ideal, voluntary organisations that also run child protection institutions, because that's an important supplement. So we want to make sure that they have good framework conditions. But is it that the government considers them just as a supplement and not as an important part of the total supply we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e240	It is very important to repeat things several times in this debate. I've said several times that we want to have primarily public institutions, and we want to have good, well-run, ideal institutions. Then we see that we need commercial institutions - that's also clear. But we want a spin, and that's what we've clarified. How we work on it, the processes, I've already said something about-- and I'm assuming we're going to have good processes. We are in the process of developing the services provided by child protection, and I am very aware of different aspects of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e245	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e250	Let me first say that the protection of children in Norway today is characterised by emerging crisis conditions. From a number of municipalities we get reports that child protection is under very great pressure. One feels that there are more and more, and not least more and more, issues relating to child protection in each municipality. This is precisely why it is so important that one has a comprehensive child protection service, both public and private, which ensures diversity and ensures the possibility of making tailor-made offers to children who need a non-A4 offer. Often it is also such that very serious child protection issues arise as lightning from the clear sky, and there is a need for emergency positions. And precisely in such a situation, it is absolutely essential that child protection services have the potential for qualitatively good places where children can be placed very quickly. Last night's spontaneous questioning time, the government council let the cat out of the bag. She was clear that what we now see is a desire and wanted politics from the Government. After political and ideological directives from a red-green majority, private alternatives should be strangled slowly and perhaps preferably, from the red-green side, as much as possible unmarked and with the so-called Bufdir - or Bufetat, as it is called fine - as a executioner. Similarly, we have seen that the state council through the media has made claims that it is the state that takes responsibility for the heaviest children. Well, I can't see that it's a statement that's somehow documented. We know that very many public child protection institutions that have taken responsibility for very demanding children, in many situations, throw the cards and say that this is not what we are dealing with, leaving the challenge to private, tailor-made alternatives. It is therefore sad and sad that the outcome of this policy that we are now seeing is going to be poorer and worse child protection. The big loser becomes the weakest and most vulnerable children. I am absolutely convinced that the crisis conditions we now see the contours of, are just a small taste of the crisis we are facing when the red-green policy succeeds in squandering out all the private and ideal alternatives in the field of child protection. And then no one should come and say that they were not warned in advance. You have been through this debate and through a number of debates and recordings in the past. I just want to encourage everyone to keep up with the evolution. I must say that I am very pessimistic and look darkly at the future of child protection with this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e265	The President will point out that all speech is addressed to the President and not to ‘them’, as well as that referring to the public Bufetate as ‘the fine’ is to go beyond the limits of language that we want in the main hall. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e282	Thousands of children experience violence, abuse and care failure in their own homes. Many of these go to kindergarten or school with bad secrets that they don't dare share with anyone. They may be silent and locked up in the nursery or exorcising at school. However, they are not captured and helped. Secrets will not be revealed. What can this do, and how can we help the children? In recent times, there has been more attention to media abuse because of the Lommeman case. It is important that more attention is paid to such cases, because it is totally unacceptable for children to experience abuse. Then it's important that you don't trivialize it and send a signal that twitching with children is okay. The Bondevik II government launched a comprehensive strategy against sexual and physical abuse against children in the spring of 2005. The plan had four main objectives: firstly, to prevent abuse; secondly, to detect abuse; thirdly, to provide them with adequate assistance and treatment; and fourthly, to increase the competence of the auxiliaries in view of such abuses. Prevention has been given considerable space both in that plan and in the action plan Violence in close relations. A concrete result of the action plan Violence in close relations, the time-frame 2004-2007, is the project ‘Children living with elected members of the family’. The project is being implemented as a collaboration between Alternatives to Violence and Centers for Crisis Psychology in Bergen. The project has provided documentation on how the election harms children, and has provided knowledge to staff working with children so that these children, children who have been subjected to election, are seen and given clinical advice. I am pleased that the current government is following up this important work in a new action plan against violence in close relations. The plan covers five departments and will provide a lift, not least in terms of knowledge. What is missing in this plan is, however, an expanded staffing framework and a greater focus on multidisciplinary activities close to users. Action www.redesmå.no was launched yesterday. I believe that the Government is wise to review the demands of the action group carefully. Actions outlined there will give the Government's action plan the strength and strength to create a turning point - turning point has the government called the new action plan. If frames are not increased, increasing knowledge could lead to paralysis rather than increased quality and activity. One of the requirements of www.redesmå.no is mentioned in this interview: the need for interdisciplinary cooperation. In West Agder, they have a cross-disciplinary distribution team that handles suspicions of sexual abuse. The distribution team can show good results in helping children who show signs of being exposed to incest and sexual abuse. This is a great help for the family and the auxiliaries. The team has had a systematic trial of cross-disciplinary expert investigations into medical, psychological and social issues of suspected sexual assault. The children are referred from the Child Welfare Service, and the distribution team assists them in the investigation phase. The distribution team has recommended Bufetat to build such teams across the country. I hope the Council of State will listen to this recommendation. To get help, a child must reveal the secret. We know that very few care messages are sent from kindergartens and schools to child protection, despite the fact that the vast majority of children stay in kindergarten or in school and SFO much of the day. There are some messages from a number of kindergartens, and there is a feeling that they are adding uncertainty about the limits imposed by the obligation to make contact between the public, what requirements are imposed on them when there is an obligation to provide information, how they should make concrete progress in order to provide a warning of concern, whether to inform parents, the course of the event after the notification of concern, and the possibility of feedback from child protection. This issue was raised by the Joint Educational Organisation for Children's Protection, Sosionoms and Protective Caregivers together with the Children's Court section of the Education Association in a letter to the former Councillor Karita Bekkemelm. In their letter they asked for a meeting and cooperation with the Ministry to solve the challenges of child care reporting very little concern about child protection. I hope the department has taken care of this. Fear Children have discovered that only nine out of 106 municipalities have surveyed the extent of violence and sexual abuse in the municipality, and only 15 municipalities have a plan of action to work against violence and abuse of children. However, I would like to draw up some good examples of municipalities that are involved in a lack of interaction between child protection, kindergartens and schools. Bærum municipality has created multi-disciplinary selections, where guidance is provided on a continuous basis when it comes to concerns messages. The municipality is also planning a course for kindergarten students on the basis that kindergartens report very little concern about child protection. Steinkjer municipality has developed a plan for cooperation within the municipality. In addition, this will be taken up in the course of KS, and in 2008 Redd Barna planned to develop teaching materials on violence and abuse, corrected, among others. against addition to schools and kindergartens. NOVA Report 6/04 on child protection, kindergarten and cash support points out that many of the preschool teachers are concerned about missing information from child protection in specific cases. This means that they refuse to report their concerns to some extent. The same applies to kindergarten as for the health centre: Preschool teachers understand child protection obligations, but also feel that it may be frustrating not to know what will be done. In order for the Child Protection Service to communicate, where appropriate, information on which it is obliged to consult, to others, it must be permissible for the legislation to do so, or consent must be given. Information to other management bodies may be provided only when necessary for the provision of the child-resistance service or the tasks of the institution, or for the prevention of material danger to life or serious harm to the health of persons. The Child Welfare Service may notify or provide information to the police when necessary to carry out the tasks of the Child Welfare Service. The obligation to provide services does not preclude the establishment of interdisciplinary groups of responsibility. However, if the information is not consented to, the child protection service in each case will have to consider who can communicate what information to, and on what basis. This means that the whole thing can rarely be discussed with all the members of the group, but that some parts of the case can be discussed with individual members - and other parts with other members. Public authorities, including staff in schools and kindergartens and a number of professionals, are required to assist in the provision of the Child Welfare Service with the information necessary to meet the needs of children, as required by law. Today's news this morning, we heard that abuse of children is less punishable than an assault on adults. The Christian People's Party expects the Government to rectify this openly unimaginable when they soon propose changes to criminal law. We cannot live on the fact that society counts abuses on the smallest and most vulnerable as less serious than assaults on adults. Sexual assault is a serious and sometimes hidden social problem. Being subjected to sexual abuse has great consequences. That is why we need to strengthen this work. I hope that the Council of State sees the need to establish cross-border distribution teams in all municipalities, that multidisciplinary cooperation between kindergartens, schools and child protection will be strengthened, that all municipalities draw up action plans to work against violence and abuse of children, and that more measures will be allowed to be taken, so that no child needs to be secreted of violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e322	I want to thank you for the interpellation. It concerns children and young people who often need coordinated assistance and support. Harmful effects of child abuse take many forms. We now know more about which children are particularly at risk than we did before. This has been documented through, for example: NOVA Report 20/07 Violence and abuse against children and young people, which was published last November. The government prioritises the fight against violence and abuse against children. We have, therefore, developed up-to-date environments of competence in recent years. We have launched several new actions aimed at this group. Let me give you some examples. The government presented just before Christmas' turning point. Action plan against violence in close relations 2008-2011». Action 24 of this plan will stimulate municipalities to develop municipal or intercommunal action plans against violence in close relations. A national knowledge centre on violence and traumatic stress is established, together with five regional resource centres. Regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention shall facilitate and assist municipalities. As the representative of Molvær Grimstad knows, the five regional resource centres have been established in 2006 and 2007. All centres have their own specialist groups for the work on violence and abuse. Also, parts of the activities dealing with trauma and suicide prevention are highly relevant in relation to children exposed to violence and abuse. Resource centres shall contribute to providing the children at risk of violence and trauma with coordinated and research-based assistance and treatment. They are not themselves engaged in clinical or investigative activities. However, relatively many of the employees of resource centres have part-time positions in clinical activities. The role of centres in the fight against violence and abuse consists of guidance, consultation, dissemination of knowledge and networking. The government has also started its efforts to legislate on the crisis offer. The municipalities will then be given a clearer responsibility to provide help to children and adults who are exposed to violence in close relationships. Two children’s homes are established in 2007. Three new children’s homes will be established during 2008. The responsibilities of children's homes are issues relating to sexual abuse and violence in close relationships. In other words, the capacity to deal with such matters will be strongly strengthened. Providing guidance, consultation and treatment services are among the most important tasks of children’s homes. Offers such as children’s homes and regional resource centres are being set up or recently established. The government is continuously working to ensure a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the services concerned. I am referring, among other things, to ‘intimidation’. municipal, health, family, police and judicial services, child protection teams, children’s and regional resource centres. In 2008 I will meet representatives from the municipalities throughout the country. This will take place through collections in nine regions. One of the three main themes of the collections is violence and abuse against children. The representative, Molvær Grimstad, asks if I want to work for a multi-disciplinary investigation team to be found throughout the country. Molvær Grimstad refers to the experience of a multidisciplinary investigation team in the case of suspected child abuse. The team has existed in West Agder from 2001. Following the Child Protection Reform, the team has been subject to one of the teams in the Children’s, Youth and Family Status in the South region. The team consists of staff from regional child protection, from mental health protection for children and young people and from a paediatric facility. The Children's Protection Region and Regional Resource Centre on Violence, Traumatic Stress and Suicide Prevention - South now has a dialogue on the further development of the investigation team. One of the issues discussed is whether such investigation teams should be tested in other disciplines. Experience with this one investigative team has so far only been analysed in one systematic report. The report was written in 2004. The decision base is therefore too poor to address the issue of setting up such teams across the country. The need to create new units needs to be assessed in the context of, inter alia: the other measures taken by the Government for children who are subjected to abuse and violence in close relations. I will now elaborate on what I am aiming for. Bufdir's team offers local authorities assistance in difficult child protection matters. Here, Bufdir has put emphasis on empowerment in relation to violence and abuse against children. Professional teams also assist small municipalities by carrying out limited investigative tasks in complex cases. The issues of violence and assault are often complicated. The Ministry of Children’s, Youth and Family Affairs has therefore worked systematically in recent years to increase the competence of the teams on violence and abuse against children. Such empowerment will be continued and strengthened. In addition, cross-border consultation teams are working on violence and child abuse. Such teams can be found in most counties and disciplines. What problems they are dealing with, as well as abuse, vary somewhat. Many of the teams are linked to Bufetat, while others have a different organisational connection. I now come back to the representative Molvær Grimstad's question about setting up an investigation team. As I said before, there is no basis for saying that the model from West Agder should continue throughout the country. The government will ensure comprehensive and coordinated offers to children exposed to violence and abuse. How to achieve this objective must be determined on the basis of scientific evidence and experience-based knowledge. Therefore, before we decide to establish new offers, we should assess the experience with the offers that are now under construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e354	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I want to thank you for the commitment to the cause. But at the same time, I would say that when it relates to the decision-making basis with regard to making the arrangement with a distribution team like what is in West Agder into a nation-wide system, it should not be difficult to enter and conduct a new evaluation, if the Council of State thinks it is necessary. The experiences we've been told about are very good, and it's a very great way to work to get a grip on some of the challenges you have. I would like to ask the State Council if it is as soon as possible to look at it. So I would say that when this action concerns www.freddesmå.no, which was opened yesterday, one has already received almost 1,000 signatures. There's an outside engagement, and there's a lot of challenges in the field. One of the challenges for primary education and further training in working with children is that one in the curriculum must include knowledge of sexual abuse, violence and care failure. The framework plans for general teacher and pre-school teacher training are very superior and general in form, and the educational institutions are delegated great professional freedom to design the education. When it comes to cooperation with child protection in general and awareness-raising messages in particular, this is not mentioned in the framework plans, and the framework plans state that university curricula should cover the subject of ‘children in crisis’, one has also mentioned abuse and care failure. There is no mention of how much education should be given in this or in what way. When it comes to how the theme of child protection and awareness-raising is covered in education, the educational institutions themselves report that this has been covered, and it seems generally that they think that education is adequate in this area. However, a report by the National Knowledge Centre on Selected and Traumatic Stress shows that general and pre-school students do not get adequate knowledge of children’s rights, of selected and sexual abuses and of conversational methodology – knowledge necessary to capture the child and help it to obtain the necessary support. Fortunately, the recent action plan against violence in close relationships contains measures to strengthen the competence of teachers and pre-school teachers, but I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to the follow-up of this, for those added as a meeting in the pre-school and teacher professions say that this is not good enough. It doesn't help that the teachers say it's good enough when they're close to the kids, they think this field isn't being followed up. I hope the state council will address this, because the key to getting more concerns messages is the competence of kindergartens and schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e367	It is very important to take care of the commitment that is around the community to a problem that seems to be quite comprehensive and that we are constantly getting reports of. Children need to be seen, and that's what we in the Government do when we build up the agencies that work on these issues, when we start more grant schemes, and when I myself have notified that I want to look specifically at the problem of reporting obligations in view of the professional groups that meet children from them are very small. I would also like to stress that the efforts we are making are not only my efforts, but an effort in close cooperation with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health and Care. Yes, we have a broad focus on this, but we also have to look at the measures that we are taking, and that are proposed, in an overall context. I have great faith that the work done by the Government in this area is on track. Again, it is important to ensure the commitment that is around seeing children, not necessarily around a specific proposal for action. But of course, I'll look at the measure that is now proposed by Molvær Grimstad. I think we don't have enough groundwork, but I'll look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e378	It's an important matter the representative of Molvær Grimstad brings up today -- we have to make sure that children who are subjected to abuse -- violence in the home or sexual assault -- get help, that they are seen and heard, but not least that there is action. I am proud of the work the Government has already done. This action plan referred to is called the Turning Point, where there are 50 measures aimed at violence in close relationships and many of which can be related to this matter. What's important is that we work across the board. There's a lot of people here who have to be together and work. We're going to get school, kindergarten, health care and the police to work together on the problems. I just want to mention some of the measures that are in the plan. The plan has been drawn up in cooperation with six departments. I feel that the government now sees that it is important that more people join in to pull the load in order to get the best possible solution. It is suggested that there should be a 24-hour alarm phone, free of charge for children, which can make it easier for them to make contact. Some of the barrier for the child is maybe to find an adult they can talk to. This could be a solution to that. The government will also investigate whether the criminal protection of children who are victims of violence is good enough. What the representative Molvær Grimstad was into, is not least this with competence. Police high school has now expanded the study with much greater emphasis on the fact that the police are often in the first-line service, that they are out watching and experiencing children who are subjected to violence. They are also very good at notifying the police about child protection through the child-restraint guard. As it is said, it is also important that pre-school teachers and teachers feel safe in this field and in what they should do. I think many people who work in kindergarten and school can see that children have problems, but they don't dare ask because they're afraid of the answer - if the answer is that they don't know how to attack it. There should be good ‘treaty books’ that show how they can help, and who they should contact, if they discover a child who has problems. Another thing that's been added to the plan is that we're going to use more audio and video interviews. This means that those who are subjected to abuse are interviewed by the police, and that the video interview is used in the district court if there is an appeal. That's how it gets a smaller load. One thing that can be difficult is that when children are exposed to violence and sexual assault, a family goes into disintegration. It's very difficult for the family itself and for family and friends around them to move on. The plan suggests that the conflict council may be able to go in, gather the family and - of course, this is voluntary - go through how, for example. a restraining order shall operate in order to enable the family to move forward in the difficult situation. One has been inside children's homes. It's a very important thing that several parties have been working on for many years. Finally, we got the first two last year, in Bergen and in Hamar. Now there's three new ones this year, so it's going to be in all the health regions. There is a unique offer for children not to go from one department to another to get medical examination, they will not talk to the police in one hearing and then proceed to a court hearing. Everything must be collected in one place, so that it is not the child who is going to be drawn around, but it is the adults who are going to come to the child. Our legal system is not based on children's premises, but this is a step on the way for children to have an opportunity to explain themselves in an environment that is adapted to them. I have very great faith in it. You've just started, and it seems that the floors are geared to be involved in this project and get the best possible. The Justice Committee has also proposed that we have family violence coordinators. It is also in this plan. We're going to have family violence coordinator in every police district. There should not be a 20 per cent position, which has been pushed a bit to ensure that it is - it should be full jobs and press on that job. In the large police districts, family violence teams, such as a kind of Kripos, are also to assist small relief agencies that rarely have such cases, so that they can call for help. I think a lot of this is competence for the police as well. They should be able to feel safe about how to tackle these issues and that the cases are being explored as best they can. Another thing is that the compensation for violence has been extended to enable children who are witnesses to violence to seek compensation for their victims. Finally, I would like to say that evidence in these cases is difficult. That's why it's important that we have an increased bet on DNA. This will lead to more cases being solved, to clear evidence, and not just the victim and the perpetrator to be in the courtroom. Even though DNA alone isn't enough, it's an opportunity to get evidence. We also need to deal with the criminal law and, of course, we will also look at how we should punish against child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e404	It's an important topic that the interpellant addresses. I would like to comment first on some of the interpellant's comments. The representative, Molvær Grimstad, mentions the case of the Pocket Man. That case shows how vulnerable our children are. The Progress Party has repeatedly promoted representational proposals for a certificate of good conduct or police for all who work with children, both professionally and on a leisure basis. This could actually have been a tool for those who are working with the small and incorrigible. The Regional Offices and Resource Centres were referred to by the Councils of State. We have 24 teams and approx. 400 child protection offices in Norway. I want to warn you a little bit about setting up my own investigation teams in case of suspicion of sexual abuse of children. We can quickly get into the situation that we're constructing problems. We have references to previous incestaves, as in the Bjugn case, so just creating your own investigation committee for sexually abused children, like the Council of State, I'm a little in doubt if is the right way to go. On the other hand, we have these 24 teams that are supposed to be a resource for the various child protection agencies. I guess I could imagine that they actually got on the track. These are difficult child protection issues, and they should then be on the road. It is very important that children who have been subjected to violence or sexual assault, or where this is suspected, have a good follow-up. It's about seeing the child, as both the Council of State and the representative of the Workers' Party said, not only in the first phase, but also in the future. Repairing damaged children can take a long time, and you need well qualified people to do just this job. There are very many competent people in the municipalities who make a huge effort for the vulnerable children, but it should ring a bell when Redd Barna points out that there are only 15 municipalities that have an action plan against violence and abuse against children. On the other hand, there is a national action plan against violence in close relations, but this national plan does not help if it does not enter the municipalities and is actually converted into action. The fact that we have a national action plan, but that there are only 15 municipalities that have such a plan, says in itself that there is a big hole out there. The house of the children can be a place where the children can contact and meet qualified staff. Unfortunately, only two such houses are established in Norway today. The use of these may prove to be a way to go, but it is important to think that other instruments should also be used. Barna's house cannot cover all municipalities, so it is important to have more legs on it. I do not agree with the interpellant that the Child Welfare Service has a central responsibility for the child's overall care situation, that is the parents who have. However, in the case of children who have been subjected to domestic violence and abuse, it is clear that child protection has overall responsibility. I have the impression that the dialogue between school, kindergarten and child protection services has improved, and that in many municipalities there is close cooperation between the different sectors. In the last period, we eased the obligation of professional secrecy in the relationship between school and child protection, precisely in order to create a dialogue. We have some success, but it is still difficult to communicate concerns about children between the agencies in small municipalities where everyone knows everyone. The fact that the individual municipality has not identified the extent of violence and abuse, I personally do not think that it is so strange, all the time the municipalities have great challenges in maintaining their statutory duties. But from there to missing action plans is not good - that's not good at all. This is because, as the interpellant underlines, the most vulnerable and vulnerable children in Norway. I am sure that we all know children who are not well-being, and who would rather be in the homes of others than in their own. Then it's okay to alert, then it's good to know that you have places and people to turn to. That is why I appreciate this debate, and I think the Council of State was positive in its contribution. I am delighted to follow the debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e425	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant, for it is undoubtedly a very important topic that is on the agenda here today. Of course, children must be entitled to the attention and protection of adults from violence and abuse. As others have been here, they must be seen and heard. It is also true, as the interpellant points out, that the Bondevik II government has developed a comprehensive action plan with a variety of measures against violence and child abuse. This plan has since been followed up in the comprehensive plan of the Stoltenberg government, which is a new confirmation that national authorities actually have a heavy focus on this area. There will be a ‘missing link’ if not such national, overall, state plans also have a sound base and manifest themselves in plans at municipal level. Then, of course, it is anything but reassuring when it is informed on the part of the inter-pellant that only 15 municipalities in Norway today have put these kinds of issues on the agenda and have developed local plans and preparedness in relation to it. It is therefore very positive that the Council of State refers to her having dialogue meetings with all the municipalities during 2008, and I hope that this dialogue will provide guidance to the municipalities on how to develop local plans in this area as quickly and effectively as possible. I'm not concerned that such plans must necessarily fill the page down, but it's important that you have a readiness, it's important that in some key areas you actually decide what to bet on, and how to act when the crisis is a fact. The matter with the pocketman should be a waker for many. Many people may suggest that the attacker could have been stopped at a long earlier time if adults who were notified had taken the children’s explanations seriously and taken their precautions. I'm thinking about the trial environment, and there are several examples of parents who stand up and have been notified without being involved. This is a shame, but it might tell you something about that we have some pictures in our heads about how a typical override is. When the attacker then does not match the picture we have done in advance, we minimize, and then “disappear” such things, and the kids are not taken seriously. Like the interpellant, I'm quite upset by the message that came in News of the Day, where it's almost established that child abuse is punishable less than assault on adults. The right considers that, on the contrary, it should be punishable to commit violence and abuse against children, which we must acknowledge is in a particularly vulnerable position. Children’s housing is a targeted measure to co-locate different services. The idea is that children who have been subjected to violence and abuse should meet one door to the helpers. Fortunately, there is today a cross-political consensus that this is a significant contribution to strengthening the legal certainty of children and an important measure to strengthen their competence, so that the auxiliaries are able both to detect more abuses and to help the children who are exposed to them. Since 2005, the right has been pressing for a more rapid establishment of a nationwide system of children’s housing. The government would first have one in Bergen, since one in Hamar, and the Right will at least take its share of the credit for the breakthrough that came in the 2008 budget, with children's homes in all five health regions. We are pleased that two children's houses have finally opened the doors, and that the Minister of Justice has indicated to Stortinget that the next three will be opened in 2008. But the right has one concern, because we can't settle for a children's home in Hamar to cover the whole of the central eastern region. The right therefore proposed the establishment of a sixth children's home in the Oslo area during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. Until now, the government has rejected the fact that there is a need for another children's home. But given the large population base and the many municipalities that might need technical assistance in these matters, my question to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality here today is whether she will be working to make this a reality in the central Oslo area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e444	The representative, Molvær Grimstad, initially points out in his interview that few municipalities have an action plan to work against violence and abuse against children. I would then like to point out that the Government has adopted an action plan against violence in close relations 2008-2011, one of which is that municipalities should develop municipal or intercommunal action plans against violence in close relations. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress shall, in cooperation with regional resource centres, draw up a template for such action plans. Regional resource centres shall facilitate and assist municipalities in developing local action plans in this field. It is important that we now have a coordinated and good tool across the country, so that these children are not least seen and given a good treatment offer. The representative of Molvær Grimstad focuses on a very important matter, as most parties are and have been occupied by very long. But she's asking if multidisciplinary investigation teams are going to be found all over the country. SV believes that the children’s home should be responsible for the investigation and treatment of children who have been subjected to abuse and violence, and is opposed to the use of new investigation models. In order for the model Barna's house to succeed, it is absolutely necessary not to examine children for different models across the country. Two Barna’s houses were established in 2007 on the basis of a proposal launched by SV in 2004, by the undersigned and Inga Marte Thorkildsen. As a midwife, I have worked with assaults throughout my working life, both in the school health service and in maternity care. I promoted this proposal after working in a group of the Nordic Councils that looked at the growing conditions of children and young people in the Nordic countries, North-West Russia and Greenland. I visited Barna's house in Iceland and also a crisis center for children in Riga. I then suggested that both Barna’s house and a crisis center. What makes me very happy is that the different parties are satisfied with Barna's house, and that so many of them have worked across the board to get this in place in Norway, because we know that this model works. It has resulted in more children getting help, more children being thought of, more children being seen, and not least more judges. It is absolutely necessary, because it is quite right, as several of the representatives have pointed out, that there are actually a few cases leading to a judge in Norway, and there are also short sentences. I believe this is totally unacceptable - both that children are not seen, and that they are not believed. There is a children's home model that will both investigate, treat and question children. What's important is there's one door, so you know where to turn. So far, many families have had to search and often struggle for help in Norway. I believe that this will end when we get to Barna's house all over the country. It is also important for the further development of competence in all areas of this field, not least from the point of view of the interpellant, that there is no competence to see and discover, either in school, in kindergarten or in health services. It is extremely serious, and here I believe that the Council of State and the Government have a great responsibility to follow up the strengthening of their competences contained in the action plan. The provision of victims of violence and abuse is a high priority on the part of the SV. I have experienced in my professional career being the first to ask a pregnant woman if she has been subjected to an assault, even in very many ways, throughout her life, she has been in the emergency room and various treatments and has told me in many ways that it is. Children and adults who have been abused often have a very poor quality of life. We also know that it can be continued when you do not receive treatment. That is why I believe that this must be priority No. 1 in the case of children and young people - next to many other areas, of course. But this is very important!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e453	I am pleased that the representative Molvær Grimstad takes up the work against violence and abuse against children. I am also pleased that the focus will be on the importance of multidisciplinary cooperation and cross-sectoral work. There is no doubt that the ability to cooperate and exchange information between sectors is crucial to succeed in the fight against violence in close relationships. This is also a key priority in the Government Action Plan turning point. On an ongoing basis, all regions shall be provided with children's housing and the offer shall be nation-wide. The aim of children’s homes is to provide better services for children who are subjected to abuse, including: medical examination, judicial hearings and proceedings shall be brought together. Regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention shall build up competence in this area and disseminate knowledge to those working in the field. The police also have a very important task in this work. We have to give a clear signal that family power is something society prioritises to fight because it is seen as serious crime. The Government therefore announces in the Action Plan: ‘The police districts shall be required to have a minimum standard in which the function of family violence coordinator shall be a full position. In the main police districts, separate teams are to be set up. The team model shall be nationwide, in the sense that districts without their own teams shall be ensured competence transfer and assistance where necessary. The aim is to ensure that victims of violence in close relations meet with respect, knowledge and understanding when they address the police, as well as to ensure good quality of investigation and prosecution decisions.’ We must never forget that in families where grown-ups cast each other for power, the children are equal victims, and that growing-up abuses against each other can also help to expose the power against children. That's why I see it as very positive that we are now more than ever giving the police the opportunity to relate to the whole family, not just victims and insults in each isolated case. Fear The children have done a very important screening work that will help translate into targeted actions. Of course, it is not satisfactory when only 9 out of 106 municipalities have surveyed the extent of violence and sexual abuse in the municipality, and only 15 municipalities have an action plan to work against violence and abuse against children - especially if this means that in the vast majority of these municipalities there is no effort to prevent violence and violence against children. Now I don't think it's so bad. Good professional work can be done in many municipalities without necessarily being reflected in action plans. But it shows that we are not good enough to systematize the work against violence against children, and that we must always aim to be better even when it comes to the professional. The national action plan shall contribute to this. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress shall, in cooperation with regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention, draw up a template for municipal or intercommunal action plans against violence in close relations. Resources centres will help municipalities to develop local action plans in this area. The multi-disciplinary themes in West Agder show that there are good models of how a local person can meet the challenges. For us in the Center Party, it is crucial that we give the municipalities the space for action to organize work against violence and abuse against children in a good way. We are concerned that one has to find the good solutions locally, and that the models do not therefore have to be identical in all the municipalities in the country. We believe that the action plan against violence in close relations is a very important contribution to the fight against abuse and violence against children, its monitoring and strengthening cross-sectoral cooperation. We therefore also see it as decisive that the plan will be followed up on the resource page.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e475	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important debate. It has been useful to hear about the interterritorial investigation team in West Agder. There are several challenges in the debate that the representative Molvær Grimstad is raising. This applies, inter alia, to: geography. Many and small municipalities have little access to professionals, and everyone knows everyone. In my own home country, Finnmark, we also have the Sami perspective. Research shows that incest and child abuse occur more frequently in the three northernmost counties and in the major cities. In large cities, there should be no access to professional skills. However, in the northernmost countries, this is a major challenge, and travel distances and thus economics create additional challenges. In the case of Sami Child Protection, recruitment of Sami-speaking professionals is generally also a challenge. I have in the Questionnaire addressed questions to the Minister of Justice about the Government's view of the ambulance emergency team. In recent years, there have been several major cases in Northern Norway that have affected a large number of children and young people as well as many relatives. One can go so far as to say that the whole community, like Lakselv and Tysfjord, has been hit by a crisis. They have been very unprepared and unskilled to assist victims and relatives. It's too late to talk about what we could have done, but it's not too late to learn. The most important thing is to prevent so many in a small community from being hit again. In my opinion, the goal must be to set up an investigation and crisis team for the three northernmost states - a team with in-depth competence and knowledge of Sami matters, languages and culture. In the event of major accidents or natural disasters, we have national emergency teams to deploy. Among other things, we have a system of rescue centres to build up below this. In the case of victims of criminal acts, for example: victims of sexual abuse affecting an entire society, we have no national preparedness or rescue centre to resort to. Such an ambulatory team would like to be built around a Barna's house in North Norway. I hope the Council of State will take note of this and will look at this challenge in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e491	We want to believe that children grow up under harmonious conditions where they are happy and meet all their needs for care. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Through the increased attention to family violence, we have become aware that many children are subjected to violence and abuse, and that many children are not least witnesses of domestic violence. We also know that the documented violence is only the top of the iceberg. There are, unfortunately, large numbers of darkness here. A nationwide 2005 survey tells us that almost 10 pst. by all girls over 15 years of age have been subjected to serious violence by their current or former girlfriend. But this violence does not only affect adult women; a significant number of children experience abuse of their mother. They see, hear and experience the violence against a close caregiver. Children shall not bear witness to violence and abuse; that in itself is an offense also against the child. We know that 1,500 children spend the night at the country's crisis centers every year. About half of the children in the crisis centre in 2006 were five years of age or younger. What does it do with a little childhood mind to be torn up from its usual everyday life, fleeing to a crisis centre and living in hiding there? We are also aware that very young children are being abused. Research results from Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom show that up to a third of all children treated for serious head injuries have suffered from abuse, and there are infants who are the most vulnerable. Numbers from Ullevål Hospital show that about 20 pst. children with serious head injuries were injured as a result of abuse. What are we doing to combat this violence? It's obvious that we've gotten a lot better in recent years. In the past, violence and abuse against women and children were seen as house troubles when the police moved out. Today, the police are handling this in a completely different way. Every police district now has family violence coordinators. And for the current year, this arrangement is strengthened by 10 million. kr to ensure that everyone has a full-time family violence coordinator. In addition, it is foreseen that the largest police districts should now set up their own teams. Just before Christmas, the government presented its new action plan against violence in close relationships, which involves more and more comprehensive measures to combat violence and abuse. If we are to be able to prevent and help more victims of violence and abuse, it is obvious that many and varied measures need to be taken. Everything from health centre and school to child protection, police and justice needs to be better able to detect and help. Moreover, it is important, as the interpellant points out, that the various parts of the auxiliaries need to be better coordinated and coordinated. Interpellant emphasises one important action to combat violence. The working party is not negative to this, but we're concerned that there are a lot of things that have to be done at the same time. We are among others the involvement of children’s homes in all regions, the establishment of a 24-hour emergency telephone for children who have been subjected to abuse, the strengthening of medical care facilities and the strengthening of the competence of teachers and pre-school teachers in order to detect violence. In addition, the most important thing is to help prevent the emergence of new abuses. Prevention must therefore be improved. A change of attitude is important here. Unfortunately, we find that there are still many strange and gruesome attitudes to child abuse. The attack on the Lommeman has shown that there are still many gruesome attitudes related to sexual abuse against children. The same showed the debate that took place in the media last autumn, how important social actors felt it should be allowed to beat children. I must also agree with the representative of Aspaker that it was outrageous to hear the news this morning that violence against children is considered less serious than violence against adults. I fully agree with the representative of Aspaker that the punishment should be the opposite. I hope that in connection with the new special criminal law we will have the opportunity to come back to that very question in the autumn, and that it will then be followed up. Because it is quite obvious that child abuse is one of the most serious things we have in this society, and it must be combated by all means.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e514	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this very important theme, sail if I perceive that in the hall there is very broad consensus on it all, most of all. It was under Odd Einar Dørum that violence in close relations was lifted, and that was the first time you, for example. all police officers in the country gathered to a large national meeting and chose violence in close relations as a theme, a theme to which no major status is usually attached in these circles. We put in place the first family violence coordinators, and I'm really glad that the government is now choosing to expand that system further to gain competence into all the police houses around. Competence here is a key: competence to see and competence to know what to do. I think it is important that we give greater security to all the professionals who meet children: they must not know everything, sail if they see a little. We noticed it very well this summer when we had the matter related to sexual injury. Then I received many enquiries from teachers who were unsure whether or not they should have notified me. Then I say that it's not the teachers' job to assess whether it's right to notify, it's the police's job. So teachers, pre-school teachers and anyone who meets children and is insecure must have the security to be able to say from even if you're insecure - rather too much than once too small - and then professionals will have to assess whether it's been told at the right time. I think it's important that we give them that security. There is also a broad consensus here that violence against children is being punished far too low compared to violence against adults. Because when it comes to violence against children, it's not just about the blow you're making or the assault that's being done, it's also about the attack on the personality. Today we focus a lot on young, stunned men who are being turned on their way home from the party, and from everything we know about the attack on their personality, you can imagine what it's like for a little child who's about to create his personality, to be exposed to the same abuses. Then I have to be allowed to mention something I think we might be a little bit disagreed about here in the hall. I think that a lot of these abuses, perhaps especially the big assault case that has been brought before us lately, are also about a society that doesn't have a normal relationship with sexuality. People suppress their real sexuality, and it also often leads to child abuse. The belief that background certificates and DNA records help for everything is wrong. In the big case we have seen now, no proof of good conduct had been able to stop anything, nor had any DNA registry been able to stop anything. In fact, there is no easy way to clarify these matters. There's no easy way to do it. It can only be done through good competence and a police officer who prioritises these matters and who is actually concerned about the emphasis being placed on children's history. So it's actually not that we can decide here out of these problems. No, we have to make sure that people become competent and have the resources to deal with this. There's no record and no certificate to get away from assault and violence against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e532	First, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in the interpellation debate. It is very nice that so many have been involved in lighting this very important topic. So a little bit to Barna's house. It was formerly Christian People's Party representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen who told me for the first time about Barna's house. He had been to Iceland and visited that house, which the representative May Hansen has also done. The commitment he showed that this was something we also had to do in Norway, was to influence us and provide us with a good and thorough information. That is why the Christian People’s Party is pleased that many people have been busy for many years trying to get more children’s houses, and it is important to have more. The Agder distribution team assists in child protection locally to find out whether there is a cause for concern. That's why it's important to have more of these teams. Several children’s homes are important, so that more children can travel there when there is a cause for concern. There is no contradiction between these two measures. I think that a faster team of lay-outs can be deployed in any state than children's houses in any state, because it usually takes a little time from the plans to get started when building houses. Getting the necessary permissions will probably also take some time, even if we all think that it's urgent. Both of these measures are needed and will complement each other. We have a lot of plans. It's very important to have. And then it's important to get these plans translated into action -- to get them concrete across the country, to get them concrete in the municipalities, and to get them concrete when it comes to education and competence. Resources are needed to make plans concrete. If we're going to be able to implement them, it's important that it also comes with money, so that one gets more added and more to contribute to this important work. So I hope that the Council of State will quickly take a closer look at what has happened in Agder. They have good experience. We didn't think we needed a lot of money to decide that this should be nationwide. We are a little impatient, so we hope that the Government will put pressure and focus on this further, so that we can continue to join forces and fight against power, abuse and care failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e547	This is a broad debate, and it is a very important debate, because children must be seen and not violated. They have to be seen nationally and locally. At national level, as I said, the entire government is putting pressure on the case. In the case of many of the measures we have outlined, as mentioned, no fewer than six departments are engaged. The Minister of Justice is in addition to me in the driver’s seat, and he has presented a number of plans and action plans. As you know, he also works on different aspects of this issue, not least criminal issues. As you know, this isn't my constitutional responsibility, but I needed to underline it. As far as police records are concerned, this is an important instrument. There we also have an assessment in progress to look at the possibility of extending access to police certification, for example. for support contacts working against children. In the case of children's homes, we have chosen to give priority to those regions where we thought it was the most needed. Oslo has various other measures that we believe work today, but we are, of course, considering this issue. As far as North Norway is concerned, I will follow up on what is now mentioned in relation to the establishment of municipal children's houses in the north. Last but not least, I would like to make it clear that the Government strongly follows up the measures that I have now outlined, because it is very important to see children and make sure that they are not violated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e558	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e574	On 16 May last year, the Government sent proposals for common marriage law for same-sex and different-sex couples to be consulted. As part of this reform, amendments to the adoption law, the Biotechnology law and the Children’s Act are also proposed. At the same time, it is proposed to repeal the Partnership Act. After the government presented its note of consultation, a wide range of hearing bodies have clearly expressed their opposition to the bill. It goes without saying that such a controversial bill is not the best starting point for a process aimed at introducing a new marriage law. On the contrary, it should be expected that a law that regulates obliging living in all homes and families in the country does not appear divisive, but instead accumulates widespread uprisings in the people. Only in that way will it also be robust enough to last longer. It is important to note, however, that the opposition to the new marriage law is essentially not directed towards the Government’s desire to safeguard gay and lesbian rights, to support homosexual and lesbian living in an open and active way to counter discrimination. Both the Church Meeting in the Norwegian Church and other hearing bodies are clear on this point. Resistance is primarily directed towards the introduction of a whole new legal state in the field of life, a legal state that will bring about a clear change in the very understanding of what marriage is. The main focus of this interpellation is the question of why the Government has not taken better time and provided for a preliminary analysis of the consequences by introducing such a comprehensive reform of marriage law as the proposal entails. Why is the Government so hasty? And why does the government not follow the so-called investigation instructions, which apply elsewhere in the state? This instruction was adopted in February 2000 to ensure that major reforms, legislative changes and measures should be supported by thorough investigations in advance. All reasonable considerations indicate that decisions of vital importance to society are properly prepared and investigated in order to avoid adverse consequences of the decision. The purpose of the investigation manual is to ensure this. The instructions state that each case shall contain an impact assessment consisting of an analysis and assessment of the likely significant consequences of the proposed decision. According to the instructions, it may be waived only where exceptional circumstances make it necessary and a decision to derogate is taken by the Council of State of the Department of Trade. That decision shall be in writing and shall state the reasons on which it is based. The Government’s proposal for a new marriage law introduces a completely new legal status in the field of life, without us seeing that such an impact assessment has been carried out or that there is any reason why the Government has found it necessary to deviate from the instructions. Then it should be said that the proposal for a new marriage law was not sent out of the County Council, but by her predecessors. I will not underestimate the fact that an important reason for this interpellation is a sincere desire to take the new Council of State seriously and give her an additional chance to reflect on whether there is a sufficient basis for decision-making to carry out such a comprehensive and controversial reform. As mentioned above, a number of Hearing Officers have identified the problem of lack of investigation. Yes, even bodies that adhere to the main conclusion of the law are calling for thorough investigations. One of these is the opinion of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Oslo, which, on several points, is just asking for more thorough investigations, despite the fact that the faculty supports the main conclusion. The theological faculty states, among other things: the following: ‘As a main objection to the premises in the consultation note, the faculty will point out that the problem of living together, sexuality and family life has not been properly discussed and is based on a simplified logic, which weakens the issue. Using equality unilaterally as a decisive argument is too simple.’ So far the theological faculty. The Ministry has defended the existence of six interim investigations in relation to the case. In fact, there are six relatively brief articles. And the set-up of the Reference Group, to which reference is given, with representatives from the relevant departments, different religious and life views and stakeholder organisations, has only held two meetings. The very short consultation period that coincided with the holiday period has also been mentioned. Against this background, there is good reason to doubt, as is done in the hearings, whether the various issues and consequences of this change in marital understanding have undergone a truly democratic process and are adequately highlighted in the societal debate. It is very likely that this could be a theme that the Storting must look at after legal proceedings, if the case follows the track announced by the Government. Nor is it unnatural to point out that the last time the marriage law went through a comprehensive revision, the legislative process took place for over 20 years. In the spring of 1971, a public body was set up, called the Marriage Law Committee, which presented its position in 1980 - so it was nine years old. Then came NOW 1980:50 Samliv without marriage, as among others. proposed legal rules for cohabitants outside marriage. Then it took even more than 10 years before the new marriage law was passed in 1991, i.e. after a 20-year legislative process. It is, of course, a long time, but it also says that you should not take such a matter too lightly. A key prerequisite for successful legislative work is that there has been a close and good process in advance with the bodies and actors involved in law-making. It also follows from the investigation manual. The reference to the reduced reference group does not in any way meet this requirement. One of the clearest examples of the fact that there has not been such a good process is that an overwhelming majority in the Church Meeting in the Norwegian Church and other religious communities oppose the introduction of the law. For example, the Muslim communities in Norway, as far as we can see, have not spoken in the legislative process either. Although they represent minority communities, in the Mangfold Year 2008, it could well appear to be manifestly deficient about societies with which they were not actively involved in the process. One of the countries that, however, started a comprehensive investigation on the issue is France. However, they found that they would not introduce such legislation. What became the decisive element in the French investigation was the child's interests. It was referred to the pressure of international law, and it was stressed that the child is always a legal entity and that it is not permissible to allow adults’ wishes to go ahead systematically in respect of the child’s rights. One of the factors that also talk about spending more time on this discussion is that the issue of gender-dependent marriage has been discussed to a small extent before recently. Only in 2004 did this matter come to the attention of the political debate in Norway. One of the main reasons for this is that there has been a common perception in Norwegian opinion that regulated gay life as implemented by the Partnership Act represents something other than marriage. This was also evident in the debate on the 1993 Partnership Act. The proposition to the Partnership Act underlines the following: ‘Marriage is the basic unit of society and the natural framework around the growth of children. Marriage is in a very special position, and marriage between homosexuals is not open. The Ministry wants to keep adoption out of the way in the interests of children.’ That's what the government said, based on the Workers' Party at the time. Different treatment may be both necessary and factual. Where different treatment or discrimination is necessary, factually and does not involve a disproportionate attack on the individual, it may be accepted. There is no indication of opposition to a gender-neutral marriage law as discrimination against homosexuals. It follows from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child that, in matters relating to children, priority should be given to taking into account the benefits of the child. It's a fact that homofiles can be as good caregivers as heterofiles. But that's not the theme here. There has always been a pre-requisite in both Norwegian and international law that it is the biological parents who are the child's parents. For example, this would be a strong counter-argument to the Government's proposal on assisted fertilisation for lesbians. This is also one of the conflicts that has not been resolved. On this background I will appeal as fervently as I can to the Council of State: There is no shame in turning! I want to challenge her by asking whether it would not now be wise to review the issues raised by a large number, in part very heavy, hearing bodies. I believe it would be directly irresponsible to adopt such legislation without providing a thorough impact assessment. Such a law would involve a gigantic experiment of life that no one knows the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e633	Since the Joint Marriage Law proposal has not yet been submitted to the Stortinget, I do not find it natural to go into detail on the individual proposals. This is a matter that is important to many people, and there is one thing followers and opponents should be able to agree on, is that both sides consider this as a value question. The government goes far in this matter to grant homofiles and heterofiles the same rights. Some people think too far. I respect that. At the same time, I have fallen to another conclusion, and I am asking for respect for it. All people have equal value. It doesn't matter where you come from, what god you believe in or who you love. It's a matter of course that gay life has the same value as heterophilic living. Homophil love is as strong, as desirable and as good as heterophilic. So it is necessary for society to enable homosexuals to live together with the same framework as heterophiles. Homofilt's life is no threat to heterophilic living. Such a claim is at best erroneous, at worst hurtful and stigmatizing. An open and liberal society shall facilitate people's choice of the form of life they want, whether they are gay or heterophilic. Good living is desirable, and it is the task of the Authority to facilitate stable couple relations. The government will guarantee gay and lesbian rights, support gay and lesbians in living openly and actively against the discrimination they are subjected to. The Community marriage law is therefore a very important change for this government, and it is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration, where it states: ‘The Government will: - agree to changes in the marriage law opening up marriages between two of the same sexes, with the same rights as marriages between two of the opposite sexes. The representatives of the Central Party in the Government and Storting are free to ask this question.’ The same rights are understood as proposing changes to the marriage law and other legislation relating to the rights of spouses. The proposal to extend marriage to gay couples is about making a value choice. This government has therefore given this clear leadership in the Soria Moria declaration. In other words, the main content and premises of a single marriage law were given through the Government Declaration. The government considered it not appropriate to carry out a broad legal investigation with this starting point. However, it was decided that some sub-questions should be further investigated by external experts. There's been a review of what a marriage is from a philosophical approach. A theologian has conducted a review of theological and ecclesiastical assessments related to the understanding of marriage and cohabitation by the Norwegian Church. The child law consequences of a common marriage law for heterophilic and gay couples have been dealt with in two separate investigations. One relates to adoption and the other to the determination of parenthood for the same sex according to the Children’s Act. International consequences of joint marriage law have also been investigated, and literature reviews have been carried out on children growing up in gender. The departments concerned have also been involved. In addition, the Ministry set up a reference group consisting of representatives from the relevant ministries, the Norwegian Church, other religious communities, life-viewing communities and stakeholder organisations to provide information on the work and to obtain views on the work. Two meetings of the reference group were held. I would also like to remind you that during this process the government has received criticism from parts of the opposition because we have spent too much time investigating the bill. There will always be different perceptions of the scope of the investigation and it is not that all legislative changes require extensive investigations. In addition, I am uncertain whether it would be a public investigation that would be decisive for my or the representative Loan's position on this issue. The proposal for a law has been on broad general consultation for a period of three months, which is in line with the legislation. At this hearing, it emerged that there are very different views in this case, which touch on the values of many and arouse strong feelings, both in those who are against such an extension of marriage, and in the followers. Being for or against common marriage law is about values, as I said at the outset. The proposal touches on the values of many religious persons and arouses strong feelings. I understand that this affects the life - style of many. For those who also regard marriage as a religious act, this implies an additional dimension that I respect. But this is also a choice of values for those who are followers of a common marriage law, and I place the crucial emphasis on marriage being a civil act. With the proposal, the government wants both heterophilic and gay couples and to guarantee children’s rights. It is essential for me that lesbian and gay couples are treated equally to heterophilic couples. I also assume that it is best for children to grow up with safe and stable frameworks regardless of parental sexual orientation. In my opinion, marriage provides a good framework for children, and this is supported by the hearing bodies. What this matter is about is to allow a few more couples to get married. This does not mean that today's marriage institution will be turned upside down, as some opponents seem to think. I would also like to refer to the concern expressed in strong order in the debate on the Partnership Act 14 years ago. At that time, many thought that the partnership law could lead to no less than standard resolution. Fortunately, today none of the opponents of the common marriage law are attacking the partnership law. On the contrary, several consultation bodies opposed to the bill stress that the right to make changes to the Partnership Act, if any, should be the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e671	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. At the same time, I have to maintain my impression that the Council of State is dealing with important issues relating to this topic a little bit easily. It's not hard to agree that gay love can be as good as heterofil, etc., and that you have to be able to choose the form of life you want, and that you have a law that takes account of it. That's not really what the marriage law is all about in the deepest sense. What is my strongest objection to this law is the adoption here of a law on a civil law act that completely devalues the biological anchoring of marriage - the anchoring it has had in a biological parenting, at all times - and the speeding up here to change a law that affects countless parts of society, without at all taking the time for necessary impact assessments. It was said by the Council of State that the representative and the Council of State would probably not have changed their position if they had received these impact assessments. But that's actually not what it's about either. It's about, I have to say, what seriousness the Norwegian big business and the Norwegian government is going to put into their work of designing laws for this society. It gets a little too light, I think, to adopt major social changes so to speak just with a pen stroke. That someone may have criticized the Government for taking too long seems completely incomprehensible to me. I referred in my article to the Marriage Law Committee and the process that took over 20 years ago. Now it might be said to be a little long, but if you use as short a time as you've done in this case, the pendulum has turned all the way over to the other end. This is not serious legal work. It appears that six different individuals have been investigated. There are investigations at the disposal of these individuals. It cannot be compared to a sample work at all. The same applies to the reference group. I've got a list of who's been there. There are no public records from these meetings, and that's here, as far as I've had experience, talk about two meetings. The representatives are not representative of those who are to use this law. So there are questions here that you also include in the work those who are going to handle the law afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e684	It is important to remember that just what is difficult for some people is to say that gay life is just as good as heterophilic living. I would also like to remind the representative Ola T. Lånker, if he is of the opinion that there should have been a public body that issued a NOU prior to this bill, that when the cash support was introduced in its time, with the Christian People's Party in the driver's seat, there was also no public investigation in the form of a NOU. The cash support was introduced shortly after the Christian People's Party had occupied the department. As I said, I will not go into the individual legislative proposals until the matter has been submitted to Stortinget. I intend to present the proposition in mid-February. Only after the legislative proposals have been submitted will the Stortinge have the opportunity to assess whether they are well-founded and justified. I have prepared an account of who has been given the opinion, and where we have retrieved our investigations. As far as the different religious communities are concerned, they have been contacted. They have expressed themselves, and some have warned that they have not had time to give feedback, or they have not yet been able to inform themselves about Norway’s way of organising their legal work. But we are in dialogue with these different religious communities. So we believe that we have done enough legal work to promote this matter for Stortingen when that time comes, in the middle of February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e697	For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure gay and lesbian rights. We believe it is important to support homosexuals and lesbians, so that they can live openly and avoid encountering discrimination and negative attitudes in our society. The Partnership Act has been important to ensure that homosexuals have a right to formalise their relationship, but equally important has the law been to contribute to positive attitudes to the equality of love between two men or between two women with heterophilic love. Now we believe in the Workers' Party that the time has come for a complete equality of homophilic and heterophilic love. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government went in to change the marriage law to open up marriages between two of the same sexes, with the same rights as marriages between two of the opposite sexes. The working party is committed to equalising marriage between heterofile and homofile. Firstly, we believe that homosexuals should also have their relationship formalized through the marriage institute, and secondly, we believe that children living in gay relationships should have the same secure frameworks around their upbringing as children living in heterophilic relationships. Children in some gay relationships today live in a illustrious room, among other things. because the other parent in the relationship is not automatically registered as a parent at the birth of the child. It is interesting to note that the opponents of the proposal go so formalistically to work in their resistance. It is claimed that the investigation institute has not been followed up, that there have been insufficient impact assessments and that a NOU has not been carried out. Yes, someone goes so far that they believe it is unconstitutional - it should have been investigated in relation to the Constitution. On the issue of impact assessments, it is particularly unusual to make impact assessments for societal development. Where impact assessments are used, oil and energy policy is linked to the impact of possible oil spills on bird species - quite specific things. However, impact assessments in this context are extremely unusual. The opponents therefore believe that the proposal is too poorly investigated, and that much longer time should have been spent here. Interpellant Lånke promotes the same proposals as the other opponents. I believe that the matter is well settled. The government has sent out a letter of consultation covering a total of 122 pages, which goes through the legislative changes thoroughly. A total of 130 hearing replies were received, with very wide responses from all the actors who have strong opinions on the matter. If the interpellant believes that the consequences of such a law are not seen, I believe that you can only look at the outcome of the Partnership Act. The Partnership Act has now been in operation in Norway for 15 years. The consequences for society are that the attitude of the Norwegian people towards gay practices has turned in a positive direction. It has seemed so positive that in fact many of those who were against the law when it was introduced, now defend it with beaks and claws. Nor can I see that the Partnership Act has contributed to a standard resolution, as stated at the time it was introduced. Nor can I see that it has hurt the children who live in gay relationships. I can't help noticing that there will be dramatic consequences, neither for the social structure nor for the morals of society, that homosexuals are now being allowed to marry. I also don't think that heterofiles will stop marrying because homofiles will be allowed to do the same. On the contrary, I think this will help to strengthen the marriage institution. We have experience from five countries that have introduced common marriage law. This has happened in the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, South Africa and Canada. Let's look at the experiences of those countries. You can also ask yourself if it is common to explore the consequences of people's lives. Have the consequences of people being allowed to divorce been investigated? Have the consequences of the birth of children outside marriage been investigated, or of the regulation of cohabitation? I don't think any more NOUs or trade union studies will rock either the loan or my position. So let's start by discussing the content and not the formalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e720	I think it'll be a bit banal in 2008 to think that there's someone who's actually of the opinion that not heterophilic and homophilic love are equivalent. Of course it is. The progress party is not homophobic, although I am absolutely sure that there are posts here where you will claim it. The Progress Party has noticed that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is currently dealing with a matter of common marriage law. The proposal, which has been consulted in the past, means that there will be one marriage law for same-sex and different-sex couples. As a consequence of the proposal for a single marriage law, the proposal also includes amendments to, inter alia: the adoption law, the biotechnology law and the child law. As we have understood, the Government will at the same time propose to repeal the Partnership Act. According to former Minister for Children and Gender Equality Karita Bekkemelm, the aim is to ensure gay and lesbian rights and quality of life. The consultation proposal included: as follows: lesbian and gay couples are allowed to be assessed as adoptive parents, like heterophobic married couples and cohabitants, to have the same access to assisted conception as heterophilic couples and cohabited spouses are introduced automatically to a non-biological mother in lesbian marriage after birth at assisted conception, in line with a heterophilic married couple - a kind of «Mater est» The proposal also opens up the right for church and religious communities to devote lesbians and homosexuals, but not to do so, fortunately. We in the Progress Party believe on a general basis that the Storting should be careful to intervene with religious communities. This would be totally unacceptable, for example. to oblige the religious communities to dedicate homosexuals. There is a great commitment to the people in this matter, especially in Christian circles, where one is opposed to this amendment of the law. In the Progress Party group, we can hardly remember a matter where we have received so many letters, e-mails or telephones, even before the matter has come to Stortinget. There have been very many protests not only against the content of the proposal, but also against the very short deadline and limited the consultation to such a fundamental change in our society. This is in line with an EU debate. This is a vision of life. This is touching. You're either for or you're against. The party of progress has a great deal of understanding of the different views, but this should have been far more thoroughly investigated. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 32 for 1992-1993, the Christian People's Party, a majority of the representatives of the Progressive Party and a majority of the representatives of the Right voted against the implementation of the Partnership Act. The programme of the Progress Party for the 2005-2009 programming period reads as follows: ‘The party will highlight marriage as the most stable and secure framework for a family relationship. However, the Progress Party believes that all people have a clear right to set themselves up in the way they find themselves best, and that this in itself has a self-value. Therefore, the Progress Party will not further regulate the relationship between cohabitants.’» Furthermore, the Progress Party programme states: ‘The party of the outset is of the opinion that a child has the best upbringing by having parents of different sexes, and therefore does not want homosexuals to adopt.’ This I went to the elections, and I have no intention of tricking my voters. If the Progress Party is to change its point of view, it will not be adopted before the 2009 national meeting, if any, when we are to be programmed. Then, I'm afraid, a gender neutral marriage law has been passed. It's an important angle the interpellant picks up, that's a failure to follow. There are more than the affected couples that have consequences for - not least if you want to change the Children's Act. The adoption law must also be amended. If we are in favour of a gender-neutral marriage law, at least we should look at the consequences for all couples who want to adopt from abroad There are very many countries with which Norway has agreements that are very restrictive in terms of gay adoption. Is it possible that we have fewer children in Norway? We don't know anything about this, because it's not consistent. I'm not going to paint black and I'm not going to go deeper into the content or look at any of the consequences of gender-neutral marriage law now, but the Progress Party is against a gender-neutral marriage law that gives homosexuals the opportunity to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e764	I noticed that the Council of State refused to discuss the content of a bill that has not yet been submitted to the Stortinget. That's right, of course, by the Council of State. I also noticed that the representative Gjul, who is the leading figure for the three government parties here in Stortinget, demanded to discuss the content of the matter - that is, the very opposite of what the council wanted to discuss. Here I have to say that I stick to the Council of State. The interpellant has raised a quite significant problem of legal work in general, and whether or not the legislative work in advance of the legislative proposal the Government intends to present to the Stortinget is consistent or not. And it has to be possible to discuss independently of what content positions you might have to have on what is in turn promoted for Stortinget. I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand that, as the representative, Gjul, someone can think that this matter is well investigated, or that it is extremely unusual to carry out impact assessments of legislation other than that of natural management. It is simply not correct, and it is directly contrary to the instructions imposed on the Government in order to enforce legislation. What is unfortunate about the way this case has been dealt with politically is that, as we remember, it was originally promoted as a private bill in the previous magnificence period. Then there is no work that is usually done when you want to present the Storting for quite radical changes to legislation in a particularly sensitive area, namely family law. You've probably started with the answer -- to put it a little short and simple -- that's common marriage law, and then you've started investigating: what were the questions? It rarely leads to logically consistent results. The three elements included in the consultation note - the issue of adoption legislation, the issue of health law, specifically changes in the law on biotechnology, and the issue of amending the marriage law - are in principle three separate issues, each of which are complex and, as we all know, controversial. It would have been a great advantage if you had prepared them separately, and presented them separately, both for the general debate on society and for the law work of the Storting. It should be noted that 130 hearing replies have been received. Yes, that's right, but most of the hearing replies have come at the initiative of the hearing bodies and not at the invitation of the ministry. The Ministry chose to send this out just before the summer break, with a deadline just over the summer break. It is relatively unusual in itself in important cases. As far as religious communities are concerned, it was sent for security only to some selected bodies that were expected to sympathize with the proposal, while everyone else was left out. Fortunately, this has been corrected along the way, but it also testifies to the fact that the list is extremely low when it comes to the correct procedure, because it was thought, as the council repeatedly said, that this is a choice of values. Yes, of course it is. But value choices can't be made in the empty space, and we're all obliged, no matter what values we stand for, to think through the consequences, both the legal and the other consequences of what we're proposing. I'm going to be careful to point to one eye-catching point that shows how little this is worked through. One argues that non-discrimination is the value option. But when it comes to the rights of like-minded couples in relation to the biotechnology law, you put a line across non-discrimination and say it only applies to like-minded couples of one sex. If once in a while the Minister of Health wants to address the issue of male-like couples' rights, she gets to do so. It's not a serious piece of legislation. There is not even an internal communication in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e785	SV promoted by Siri Hall Arnøy and me both in 2004 and 2005 a private bill on a gender-neutral marriage law, which now has the name ‘common marriage law’. I am proud and happy to have been involved in promoting this proposal. That's the proposal I'm most proud to have been on in my big time, and SV is very happy that the government will now come forward with proposals on common marriage law. The proposal also provides for the right of homosexuals to be assessed as adoptive parents, lesbian couples to be granted the right to assisted conception, and children born in lesbian conditions are granted the right to two legal parents from birth. It is also proposed that religious, religious and life views should be given the right, but not the duty, to dedicate homosexuals. An open and liberal society will enable people to choose the form of life they want -- it's gay marriage or heterophilic cohabitation. Good living is an objective, and it is the responsibility of the authorities to facilitate stable couple relations. Marriage is a good framework around a life and families with children, not least legally. SV is pleased that the Government will guarantee gay and lesbian rights, support gay and lesbians in living openly and actively against the discrimination they are subjected to. The Community marriage law is therefore a very good and necessary change, and it is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. Then to the interpellant. The government considered it not appropriate to carry out a broad legal investigation, and it has been explained by the Council of State. The interpellant is concerned with impact assessments, but I have no faith that no investigation had led either the representatives of the Christian People's Party or the SV's representatives to take a different position. Community marriage law is a matter of value. It is about human rights, equality and discrimination. It's about respecting that two people who love each other get to live together in openness and security, regardless of gender. The most important thing is that their children are largely granted the same rights as other children in this country, and live in legal security. When the interpellant is involved in assisted fertilization, it's very important in relation to the argument he's using, that we get this law in Norway. I agree with what the United Nations Children's Convention says, that a child should know his genetic origin. And that's exactly what children get right to in Norway, because we have a law that ensures children the ability to know who their origins are -- we have a law that says you should have a known donor. I will use the rest of my post to get into the Church. I believe that the time is ripe for the Church to extend an inclusive hand to homosexuals who want a church wedding. Many in the Church want to marry homosexuals, and that's the fundamental values the Church stands for, which is the general principle of these priests and bishops. They will dedicate homosexuals to the Church, motivated by the love of neighbor, human dignity, human rights and equivalency. The traditional attitude of the Church maintains discrimination against people based on sexual orientation. It is important to point out from the Government's side, and also from the SV's side, that it is not intended to force priests to commit homosexuals if it is not compatible with their beliefs. They shall enjoy the right of reservation, as other professional groups have in such matters. In the proposal that exists on the part of the Government, it also opens up the right of both church and religious communities, but not duty, to consecrate lesbians and homosexuals. It means that it is up to the Norwegian Church to change the liturgy so that the clergy who want it can have two of the same sex. I now hope that the Norwegian Church of State will soon be on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e811	An American author has said about marriage: To get a marriage, two people need to be married: her brother and her mother. Today's marriage interview calls for more detailed answers from the Government. The government has implemented a hearing on proposals for the amendment of marriage law and will soon file a case for the Stortinget. The proposal contained in the hearing note contains a number of changes that have consequences for both children and adults: Marriage laws are changed to make marriage equal for heterophilic and gay couples. Partnership laws end, and today's marriage and marriage are converted into a new marriage arrangement. If couples do not want to be transferred to a new gender-neutral marriage scheme, are they automatically separated? And what about the partners? Church and faith communities are given the right to dedicate homosexuals and lesbians, but not to do so.Biotechnology laws are amended to give lesbians the opportunity to assist in conception.Children laws are changed so that a non-biological mother of children born in lesbian marriage becomes a co-mother.Adoption laws become gender-neutral, and gay and lesbian couples can be evaluated as adoptive parents. Norway denounces the European Convention on Adoption because the proposed amendment is contrary to the Convention. As politicians, we have a responsibility to create a good framework for people's lives, to encourage commitment and to protect their children's rights regardless of the choices that parents make. The Christian People's Party believes this concern can be perpetrated through today's laws. Partnership laws provide gay and lesbians with a legal framework around their lives. The Christian People's Party is busy ensuring that all children are well-connected with both parents, regardless of whether they are biological parents or not. When a child is born into an established partnership and is planned in the family, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to secure children's rights to good contact with both parents. That is why we support the Government's proposal to legislate on the right to parental leave and paid leave for both parents at the step-child adoption in registered partnerships. The Christian People's Party believes that many strong arguments speak against the Government's proposal. The question of child-growth conditions is not whether homosexuals have the same care as others, which they obviously have. The question is about the stability of society and the importance of having both mother and father as role models for identity development in their daily growing-up environment. It must be stressed that many children get a good upbringing without having both a father and a mother with them. Nevertheless, there is something else to see alternative family constellations as equal schemes and as desirable on behalf of children. The proposal on the artificial fertilisation of lesbian fractures with the principle of parental biological anchoring. The proposal also raises a number of questions that we lack an answer to: If lesbians are to get artificial fertilization, what are we going to do with father? Is Dad only important when there is already a relationship between father and child? Is father important inconclusive to equality and to relieve mother, or is he also important to the child? The most approachable answer should be that father is important to the child, simply by being a father. The government proposal suggests that they think differently, without any justification. Nor is there any clear answer given to why lesbians get the possibility of artificial conception, while homophiles are denied the use of surrogacy. Here it's a logical failure. Or is it opening up to surrogate mother the next step the government will take? A French parliamentary report of January 2006 rejects a gender-neutral marriage law based on the rights of the child. In addition, we see that the government has not carried out any impact assessment of proposals for gender-neutral marriage law. I hope the Storting will go into the matter thoroughly and avoid making a hasty decision that changes both the marriage law, the adoption law and the biotechnology law. This is not about a respectable homofile or not. This is about what kind of law we're going to have. When May Hansen says that a now struggles to prevent discrimination against people, and that children of lesbians and gays are going to get the same dishes as other children, I'm going to say that this is a change in the law so that children will be less likely to have the right to a mother and a father.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e854	The left is to have a gender neutral marriage law, sail if we have a model that is different. I would like to see the matter from the Government before we take judgment over it. But I would like to use this opportunity to say that we have presented a model that is well-explored - yes, even well-tested, because it is used in a number of countries, where neither social morality nor the biological basis have collapsed. It's a gender-neutral marriage law that distinguishes between the bourgeois marriage and the religious and the ceremonial. It would have prevented a lot of problems, and people who are anxious that religious communities should be pressured into doing things that are a violation of their beliefs would be certain that it would not have happened with the Left's model. It was said from the interpellant that this is a gigantic life project that one does not know the consequences of. You don't know the consequences of a giant life project, I'm sure someone's tried it out. But what's the big challenge in society today is the lack of binding agreements between people living together. My commitment--which I would also have liked to have been the involvement of others in this room-- goes on all the children who don't grow up with what is their parents, and that they they grow up with, have not entered into commitments between themselves to create secure relationships around the children. I think that's a bigger societal challenge than the few, get the examples we're talking about here. Then you get a sense that you're giving people the right to adopt. It's a right no people have. It is a professional assessment by good professionals in this country that determines whether you are well enough to make an adoption. I believe that is a professional assessment. It is not a political assessment, it is a professional assessment. The question is whether one should at all be allowed to get the professional assessment and be exposed to the process that we are talking about here. When it comes to foreign adoption, I don't think it's going to be very real, because I think it's hard to find any country that will open it up. But it won't limit all the other conditions around it that a person wants to adopt from abroad, that we have a common marriage law. So we're meeting the case. We're not sure if everything's done and well done. But if the government chooses to go for the left model, they are at least sure that it is well tested in a number of countries. And it won't lead to any great disintegration of society. But I am calling for the debate on how we, as politicians, can stimulate more adults to enter into commitments for their society, which also ensures safer conditions for their children around them. I think that's the big societal challenge here, which we might really be trying to have a political debate about how we can deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e870	The interpellant wishes to investigate the consequences of the introduction of a common marriage law. He wants to investigate the consequences of equalizing homosexual and heterophilic marriage. At the same time, the interpellant maintains that no conclusion after any investigation could change the view of the interpellant. For me, it is also reasonably unclear what the interpellant really wants answers to. Which aspects of the case would the interpellant like to further investigate? What does he want an answer to? I want the interpellant to explain that in a later article. As the Council of State said, the introduction of a common marriage law is a clear choice of values. It's an important equality issue. With the marriage law, we want to eliminate the legal discrimination between heterophiles and homosexuals, and it is absolutely essential that a law does not discriminate, whether we are to achieve a society where homosexuals and heterophiles are viewed as equivalent. You don't need an investigation to establish that. But more importantly, or most importantly, I believe that no investigation is needed to establish that children of homosexuals today have completely different, and deficient, rights than children of heterophilics. Today, it is permitted to apply for adoption on a case-by-case basis. Lesbian and gay can adopt each other's children, and they can act as foster parents. In this way, the law recognises this group as being as good caregivers as anyone else. The marriage law will complete that line, and the marriage law will just be the most important for the children of gay and lesbian. It's children's rights I'm most concerned about, and I think it's strange that the interpellant wants to find out whether it's wise to give all the children who are born here in the country, the same rights from the birth of. The interpellant says that he believes that the best thing for a child is to go ahead. A child born of heterophiles through assisted conception has two legal parents from birth. A child born the same way by a lesbian couple doesn't have it. Here's the weakness. The partner of the biological mother has no obligations and no rights to the child if it should happen to the biological mother. Homophiles have children, homosexuals have children, and homosexuals are going to have more children in the years to come, whether we adopt a marriage law that facilitates it or not. The government wants to facilitate this. The interpellant doesn't want gays to have children, and that's really why we're here discussing an investigation -- that's because someone doesn't want the law to be introduced. As we stand here and discuss an investigation and discuss whether gay and lesbians should have children and get married, while we stand here and disagree on whether the law should recognise lesbians' rights to assisted conception, the lesbians are probably sitting on the Säffle bus or something, on their way to Denmark just to get assisted conception and become parents. And for all of these who have either had children and are lesbian and gay, or those who are now going to have children and are lesbian and gay, it must be quite frustrating that politicians still stand and discuss whether they should be allowed to do so, while they themselves are just eager to give their children full rights when they are born. I also think it's a little strange that those who are concerned with the biological principle, that everyone should be able to know their biological origin, don't see that it would be much better to get the right to assisted conception here at home, where we actually forbid it to be an anonymous donor, than that one has to travel abroad today and do it under a law that just allows the use of an anonymous donor. The Children’s Ombudsman also wholeheartedly supports the proposal for marriage law with the changes it entails in the Children’s Act and the Biotechnology Act. It's important. The proposal on marriage law is about eliminating legal discrimination, it is about safeguarding children’s rights, and it is about allowing more people to participate in and live in commitments through marriage. It's all about, apart from the rights of children, allowing more people to have marriage as a form of life, and I think it's strange that those who are perhaps the warmest defenders of marriage want to refuse to take part in it. It is not that marriage is a non-renewable resource that will soon end, and that has to be distributed among some, nor is it so that marriage inflation goes, that someone's marriage becomes less valuable because others get one. That's not how it works. The fact that gays and lesbians get married doesn't threaten anyone. On the contrary, I believe that it will strengthen marriage in the eyes of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e889	I have great respect for the fact that you are concerned about the quality of the legal work here in the house. It is a debate that should perhaps be taken more frequently and more generally, all the time that is being taken up here today, not necessarily -- who knows -- is the worst thing we have seen of the impact assessment of this government. Because, despite the words of accession, this government has not excelled particularly in including neither opposition nor organizations that disagree particularly with the Government of the majority of the Government. That's something that might have been desirable, so maybe more than a scarce majority of the Grand Duchy could feel comfortable with what's called democracy and not. But with regard to this specific matter, I do feel that questions about the impact assessment for some are only an instrument to prevent any law from being passed at all. The connection between the e-mails and the correspondence to a part of us, driven to the nearest absurd in relation to what I call the common folk of some of the people who have appeared to us, is not quite unclear. This is part of the campaign that someone has launched, and I could imagine that maybe the effect of the signals given by some of the people who are doing this is not for the benefit of adults or, at least, for the benefit of children. For what it says is a direct kick in the stomach of all the kids who live with gay people today, on those who are gay, and not least it's an attack on all the family members of those who are gay and friends of gay and lesbian, and 60-70 pst. In fact, the population of Norway has homosexuals and lesbians as close friends. It says something about evolution, so that action is probably almost doomed to lose. But as I said, there is no law available for treatment; we haven't seen the law yet. The right has announced its principle party vision when it comes to common marriage law, we're in favour, but respects that it's about value issues in both directions. However, the value point of the Right as a party group and in central government is clear, we are in favour of a common marriage law, but when it comes to the more detailed content, we await it, and get the opportunity to discuss it when the bill is presented. But what I hope, when the law after all the sun tags are passed, is that those who are opponents start to reflect a little bit on the argumentation and the actions that have been going on here for a while -- the effect it may have on children and friends and family, which I've taken up. For my own part, I am happy as a new partner to press the for-button when the law in some form is passed in Stortinget, which ensures e.g.. that my partner and I can also be judged as adoptive parents if, for example, God forbid - I do not know whether it is parliamentary to say - our niece's parents fall away. Because that's what adoption is also about. Then you are in a situation where the optimal, namely mother and father, is not available, and then I would think that those who are concerned with the optimal family relationship, it would at least be optimal that our sneeze could be adopted by the two to whom she probably has the greatest connection from before, rather than being adopted by two wild strangers, to whom she has no connection. It's part of the argument that I think the opponents of also adoption have to take over, in order to be able to say what's optimal for a child or not. Big experiments, small experiments -- the homofiles have kept pretty constant, and my view is that divorces are the worst enemy of marriage, not that homosexuals are going to get the opportunity to commit on the same line with heterofiles. It is not that gay people have cleaned down the doors of the Tinghuset. It isn't, but it can be hoped that out of the percentage that is gay, there are more people who start running to, for example. The Tinghuset, because you get more certainty that you're as valuable, you do exactly what everyone else has done in every year, not in the church -- that's what the Church has to decide for itself -- but you have to get the opportunity for the bourgeois part and be assessed on the same line as all other adult people who have a commitment to life. In conclusion, I have to say that there is reason to give homosexuals that opportunity, for my experience, is that gay men are at least as stable and obligating in relation to each other in practice as it is heterophilic. Nor can I see any reason why the public should not ensure that those who want to do so will have the opportunity to commit themselves and not least to ensure that children in other parts of the family have equal rights in line with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e904	The President will assume that the term 'no God' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e907	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I noticed that all the parties in Stortinget, with the exception of the Center Party, have participated. I've noticed that. I thank you for the comments that have been made. I want to say that the Christian People's Party wants the most factual debate and dialogue on these issues, and will distance all attempts at what we can call non-parliamentary instruments in a debate like this. I think it's worth the most. It is not possible to address all the claims made in this debate, in the short time I have, but I will stick to the very main thing that was my starting point, namely having a serious legal process. My claim, which I will repeat, is that I cannot find that it is coverage to say that it has been in this case - or is it, as it is. It is true that there has been an opportunity to make hearings, and many others who had not received this request in advance have also given an opinion. What's natural is that once you've given hearing opinions, you'll also be heard. You will then be listened to, and you can also have a certain hope that you will be taken into account. That's what I want to appeal to the Council of State and the Department and the Government to do: listen to all those who have spoken in this matter. Listen to them. Listen to what they say about all of these things, and not just make it a mere formality to be a hearing officer. Then the Council of State took up a couple of moments that I just mentioned in passing. It was shown that when the cash support was introduced at the end of the 1990s, it also went very quickly. I think it's a very sought-after comparison, because it's about a completely different matter than the introduction of a law, a legal state in an area that has branches of the whole of society. In addition, it was before the adoption of the investigation manual, as is known. I can't go into this anymore. Then it was also mentioned that the immigrants gave the reason that they had been given too little time. Yeah, doesn't that exactly underline what I was trying to say, that you've been in a hurry here? I'm glad you started a dialogue. Then the partnership law was mentioned, and that now no one is affecting it. That's not a theme right now. Who will abolish the Partnership Act? Well, they're the ones who introduced it. Finally, one last appeal: I note that the Council of State and the Department use the Soria Moria Declaration as the sole basis for implementing this reform. It was negotiated after the election, so that the voters did not have the opportunity to express their opinion on it. In this Soria Moria statement, there is nothing to prevent the Government from carrying out a new investigation and providing a big message. There's nothing there, as far as I can see, that there has to be a separate bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e926	It's a pleasure to hear in this debate that we've come so far that many people recognize that it's easy to say that gay life is just as good as heterophilic living, because we know that it's not how it's perceived by a lot of gays and lesbians who just feel stigmatized. One thing is what we mean. Another thing is what we do, and in what we do, it's about acting in line with what we mean, and then the marriage law is on the move. Clearly, we make a conscious choice when we promote this law, and we also believe that we have complied with the law. The investigation manual doesn't say we need a NOW. We believe that we have sent the matter to many authorities, not only to those who asked for it. We have sent the matter to more than 500 hearing bodies, and we call this a broad consultation, although it has had a short period of time. In addition, the consultation note was sent directly to the church organisations and free religious communities, following a separate list in a letter dated 11 June 2007, with a deadline of 7 September. Because we knew that this matter would divert attention, it was also written on the government.no the following passus: ‘Any person wishing to deliver a hearing opinion may ask for the hearing note to be sent or downloaded here.’ What's important for me to stress again is that we know that there's one thing where the vision is shared, and I think that the vision is different, because most of the opponents of this proposal are religious communities. Otherwise, I actually see that there is broad support in society to introduce such legislation and eliminate discrimination. This was not the case with the Partnership Act. There was society divided. It wasn't just the religious communities and the religious groups that were opposed, but there was much more in the society that was opposed. So yes, too many of us make a radical choice, but too many of us do something when we present to the Stortinget a document that you will have an opportunity to evaluate and read thoroughly, because in the debate I have also recorded that there have been some misunderstandings. But as I said, I have chosen not to go into it. With regard to the legal work that has been done, I believe that this has been sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e944	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e960	There has been a lot of media focus on the substitution scheme for children in children’s homes and special schools for children with behavioural disabilities, and rightly so. Because there's something that's certain, it's that as soon as the state has to pay out damages, it takes time-- I'm actually a little embarrassed to be here today. I'll start with the beginning, because we all need an update on what this is really about. Many years ago, the first of the orphanage victims came to trial against the municipality of Bergen. This must have been in 1999 or around it. She was the first to submit her claim to the municipality of Bergen - a brave and strong woman who had been doing well despite and not because she was located in a public child protection institution. The matter was then dealt with in the Presidency of Bergen, and a political majority decided to try to settle with the woman. They got this done. But after this case, there were a lot of enquiries about the same thing. Many had been subjected to serious physical and sexual abuse. Soon it turned out that it was not only in Bergen that such an assault had taken place, but throughout the country. The pressure was so high that in 2003 it was decided to set up a monitoring committee, and on 1 November 2004 their report, NOU 2004:23 ‘Children’s homes and special schools under the umbrella’ was presented. This report resulted in St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 Replacement schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children with disabilities. While this screening committee was doing its job, there were still new issues. Some sent claims to their local authorities and received a refusal. Some addressed the claim to the Billing Replacement Committee and received a refusal because of a lack of evidence of abuse and abuse. Those people that matter here, or, to say it a little brutally, those who have survived and come to their senses or seemingly sane through what they were into as a child, they deserve the respect of the state. From 1954 to 1980, hardly anyone had heard of children's rights. These were small children who the parents could not support and were therefore left in the public care. But there were also children who at that time took away child protection and child protection because of those who were exposed to alcohol, violence, or sexual abuse. They were sent away to something worse. The state was not conscious of its responsibility, and many children starved, froze, were subjected to beatings and bullying and even to sexual abuse. Can we imagine how this must have been for a little child, who maybe initially didn't have the very best assumptions? Can we? We could. We were able to do that in the family, culture and administration committee in the previous period. That is why we did not choose to make this matter a political matter, so a joint committee did not choose to score cheap points. In fact, there was a consensus in the committee that in this case no one should have the floor, except the rapporteur. She was to be given an overall committee position, in the interests of the parties concerned and not least in respect of the parties concerned. Our intention, that is. The committee's intention was to have these difficult and very emotional issues dealt with in a very flexible way, partly because the state had been impelling the part of evidence that could be used, but also because this too many would tear up wounds. Several members of the Committee felt that it was best for us to set up a specific selection for these cases, so that matters were dealt with quickly and efficiently. But, as I said, a consensus was also reached here on adapting the rules to these matters, both in the case of evidence, in the case of amounts, and not least in the case of limitation. It took time before the Bill Replacement Committee II was on its feet, and even longer it took them to interpret what it was that committee had meant in their comments. It took so long for the committee to send a letter to the Justice Secretariat to clear up any doubt about the interpretation. This is also signed by an overall committee in this magnification period. Then things actually began to happen, and there are now a considerable amount of issues in the sample. But there's too many things waiting. I would say that the committee had a good dialogue with the then State Council of Deaf in this matter, and that we all had the same understanding of the challenges for these people. In our comments and in our discussions between the parties, the focus was also on the fact that even if one had received compensation from the customized Committee on Cheapity Replacement, this did not prevent the individual from going to specific lawsuits against the State. However, the Committee considered, and assumes, that the limitation period is not applicable in matters relating to this group. The Committee assumes - and I find it strange that in one of its answers to one of the eight questions raised only in the last year on these matters, the Council of State says the following in question. 139, dated 31 October 2007, by Mr Arne Sortevik: «The opinion of the Committee of St.meld. No 24 on the assumption that limitation is not invoked in these cases was an important element in the country's concrete assessment of the issue of limitation in the case. However, after an overall assessment of the different considerations involved, the State found it appropriate to rely on the validity of this case.» A unanimous committee says one thing that the Council of State chooses to ignore. What are the different considerations that apply? Does the state choose to disregard the assumptions of the Storting because it costs money? Is the state going to commit an assault on the victims of the crime by claiming to be a parent, despite what the Storting - a unanimous bigotry - has said? What are the grandchildren and schoolchildren going to think? It is a wonder that they have not already lost respect for us as politicians, but the worst thing is that they too soon lose the little they have left of self-respect. Does the Council hope that those who have been abused in some form will not be able to do more, give up and thus fall away? Too many have fallen away. The treatment given to some of these children has cost them their lives. Is it really the case that the Council of State may choose to disregard the decisions and observations made by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1008	The interpellation of Mr Woldseth's representative is based on a specific claim for compensation. The case is now pending in the judicial system. I cannot therefore go further into this specific individual matter. Let me begin by saying that the State has not overlooked the comments of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration. On the contrary, the Committee’s comment not to rely on limitation has been an important element in the country’s assessment of the issue of limitation. Several big business representatives, including the representative Woldseth, have previously asked the Minister for Children's and Gender Equality questions about the state's appeal to parenthood. I'm pleased with the involvement of the big-time representatives in the former children's orphanages. As I understand the interpellant, questions are raised by the fact that the state will not automatically and without further consideration refuse to object to the limitation in all actions of the group. However, the State has also had to include several other fundamental and important elements in the overall assessment. I'll say more about this in the following. First of all, it has been important both for the individual orphanage and special school children and for the Norwegian community that it has caused many harm to care failure and abuse, as far as possible corrected. The public – both municipalities and the state – has set up. The country designated in 2003 a national survey sample, as mentioned above. In the investigation, it was demonstrated that many children in the period 1945-1980 were exposed to care failure and abuse. The selection pointed out that compensation may be difficult to obtain in accordance with the general rules on compensation, inter alia: due to lack of liability, lack of evidence and not least due to limitation. Therefore, economies of scale would be the most relevant form of public compensation. However, the screening committee recommended that the scheme be better adapted to this group. The committee's report was followed up by St.meld in 2005. No 24 for 2004-2005. In the light of this large-scale notification, the Stortinget adopted specific adaptations to the bridging scheme of the Stortinge bridging scheme for this group. The requirements for proof were lowered - both in comparison with the general right to compensation and the ordinary system of cheapness compensation. Furthermore, less attention shall be paid to the consequences that have been experienced for the individual. The emphasis shall be on self-declaration and confirmation of orphanages. The individual can get up to 300000 kroner - which only applies to this group. The Ministry has also developed guidance counsellors on municipal surveys. With regard to the responsibilities of municipalities, they were the owners of child protection institutions, were responsible for the placement of children and were responsible for supervision. In St.meld. No 24 showed that municipalities have to assess on an independent basis how they will respond to demands for municipal examination or compensation. An increasing number of municipalities have carried out investigations and have established compensation schemes. A claim may be made for the lavishness allowance of the Storting even if compensation from a municipal compensation scheme is available. This too is a special arrangement. One of the functions of the Grand Storing’s Leverage Compensation Scheme would be to remedy the particular accident caused by a claimant’s obsolescence. Billing compensation under this scheme is intended to be the last opportunity to obtain an economic benefit. Consequently, the issue of limitation may also have implications for whether it is the legal system or the Grand Duchy's lavish-compensation committee dealing with these cases. As far as I know, about 1,500 applications have been submitted to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family in connection with St.meld. No 24 The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has allocated considerable resources to the proceedings. I would like to stress that most of the considerations on which the rules of limitation are based apply in matters like this. The document certificate may have been lost and could not be verified. Any testimony will be marked by the fact that the fact is far back in time. The problems of proof in children’s homes are precisely supported by the fact that the Storting made a specific adjustment to the lavishness scheme, among others. in relation to the certification requirements. The time limits laid down in the law on limitation are intended to give the injured party reasonable time to consider whether a claim for compensation should be made. However, the public, as other defendants in actions for damages, may choose to disregard the fact that limitation has occurred. However, some specific conditions apply to the public. The benefit of the waiver of limitation for an applicant for compensation shall be granted on behalf of the Community. The absence of limitation should therefore be practised in a similar manner. This is not contrary to the individual treatment of each case. The absence of an objection of limitation without a concrete assessment would in reality constitute a derogation from the parental legislation of a large individual group. If that were the Storting's opinion, it would be natural, in my opinion, to follow an ordinary legislative process. This is how you could find out and light up all the aspects of the case complex. Finally, I would like to clarify and repeat: the issue of limitation will be specifically assessed in each case that may be raised against the State. The mentioned leaders from Stortinget will always be central.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1036	The Council of State says that the government's and state's assessment was that this was an important element that the committee had put in. With all due respect to the Council of State, she's wrong. It shouldn't be an important moment. Int. S. No 217 for 2004-2005 it says: ‘Indemnification proceedings brought against the State in the light of an infringement or care failure while staying in orphanages or special schools will be treated as equivalent to those brought against the State in respect of other claims.’ In addition, it says: ‘The Committee supports the assessment of the Ministry, but recommends that limitation is not applied to matters relating to this group.’ Then you shouldn't use it as an important moment, it's a prerequisite. These matters shall be dealt with differently. That's why we created another sample, and I hope the council will take it with them. We have to remember that all these people who are now waiting and have been waiting for years for their affairs to be dealt with are individuals. They are people with emotions, with expectations, and many of them themselves today have a very difficult time dealing with their own destiny. It is important that we remember it and treat these matters with respect. Several of those who suffered an assault have not been able to live with it. Others struggle with severe mental damage, and others have tried to forget using drugs in different forms. The public has taken childhood from them, and we can't give it back. But as an uproar and a sign of humility and apology, these matters deserve to be dealt with properly. This is about people, and it is about quality of life. There is a burden on many of them that we are discussing this matter at all today. Personally, I think it is a scandal that these matters have not been dealt with yet. Politicians who create expectations of a group that has experienced abuse and violence on the part of the public, and who do not fulfill what they say, should not be in such a position at all. I know these are tough words. But that's what we deserve when we don't even let those who have the power to sue the state, get their case tried, but on the contrary, arrogantly reject the whole of the matter because it's out of date, and that despite the fact that the committee provided that these matters were not to be obsolete. It's a political kick in the face of someone lying down. So now I would like to know if the Council of State has set out concrete objectives for when these hundreds of matters that are pending have been dealt with, and if the Council of State wants to take some initiative to let those who want to sue the state actually get permission to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1064	Yes, more resources have been allocated so that these matters can be dealt with more quickly. I have a great deal of understanding that this problem is very demanding and very painful for those who have experienced abuse. The interpellant believes that I ignore the comments and decisions that a total increase was behind when claims are made against the State. The answer to that, of course, is no. As I said in my initial answer, the Committee's comments have been an important element. However, a committee comment is not a formal decision by the Stortinget, but of course it has a political significance. And then I have explained the various factors that are valid for what was to be done in order to ensure that the matter has not been relied on foregone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1073	The interpellant is based on Innst. S. No 217 for 2004-2005 and St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005, which deals with compensation schemes for former orphans and children in specialised schools with behavioural problems. The background to the discussion of this matter is the Befring report, which brutally exposed the growing-up conditions of former children in children's homes, an increase that too many were affected by care failure and physical, mental and sexual abuse. The report showed how traumatic experiences, partly of a long nature, had not only destroyed children's childhood, but also had dramatic consequences for their entire adult life in terms of social difficulties and strong physical and mental distress. The unworthy conditions that were revealed, and the fact that society had not taken the necessary follow-up, had not been overseen and had not controlled the institutions in which the children were located, provided the basis for establishing a cheap substitute scheme adapted to that group. Through the adapted scheme, Stortinget would recognise the responsibility of society for these abuses. Although a ruined life cannot be replaced, the Storting would at least give the former orphans moral support and an apology. The adapted scheme also differs from the general scheme of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg by raising the limit on compensation. A case can be advanced even if you have received a different replacement in the past. Evidence requirements have been reduced by placing a decisive emphasis on self-declaration and its credibility, because they are often long-term issues, because it may be difficult to obtain evidence, and because archive substances have been destroyed or lost over time. This is an important system, and it's the Storting system. It is important that the Storting follows up, and that the Billing Compensation Committee manages to deal with the matters it receives. I am pleased that we have granted more money both for the proceedings and to set up a new selection of cheap substitutes in addition to what is already there, in order for matters to be dealt with. For the treatment of St.meld. 24 also affected the relationship with the general right to compensation. In particular, the rules on limitation were concerned. In the course of the examination, the Ministry indicated that separate guidelines had been drawn up for the treatment of such claims, that there was some practice in order to ensure that the State did not make a claim for limitation, and that there should therefore be no need for any new changes to the general right to compensation adapted to that group. In this context, when the Stortinge did not promote concrete legislative proposals on changes in the right to compensation, it must be borne in mind that the Stortinget found the practice satisfactory. I am therefore somewhat surprised at the angle the interpellant has chosen on its question. I hope the interpellant will also take note of the Council's description of how these considerations are taken care of in the ministry's treatment. I must also say that I am somewhat surprised that such an experienced big-time politician is trying to intervene in a case that is being dealt with in the judiciary, and thus does not respect the principle of the distribution of power that underlies our constitution. The distribution of power between legislative and judicial power is a fundamental principle of our democracy and our understanding of the law that is also important to us. Finally, I would like to stress that it is the Storting through the Billing Substitute Committee that has the great responsibility in this regard to deal with the matters that they are being dealt with, for those people who are to be compensated and should have compensation have suffered a loss for which society is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1086	When I listened to the previous speeches from the Workers' Party, I reflected on the fact that the introduction was very good and the conclusion was very poor. This is not an intervention. This case has a general foundation, but it is also attached to a special case where a brave person who would have excuse and compensation for deprived childhood has cleared the way for many others. Prior to the Befring Committee's investigation, there were also local investigations, including: in the municipality of Bergen, where this began. I have followed this from - unfortunately - the beginning of this greedy matter, and like the interpellant, I must say that I am sad to be here today. I am saddened that it will still be necessary from Stortinget's pulpit to conduct a fight in order for children's homes to have the opportunity to try their case in Norwegian law in a thorough and good manner, without being met with a state opinion that the matter is outdated. Yesterday, for various reasons, I was briefed on the defence system, which has existed since 1954. One important thing I noticed about this scheme is that it is not a limitation period. The scheme was put in place in 1954, and there is no limitation period. Thus, within this ombudsman system, there are issues - if you wish - which go back to 1954 and are dealt with. When the Storting had previously dealt with a matter of children's orphanages, to which the interpellant has referred, there were two relationships that, for a rare case, crystal clear was clarified: not obsolescence and reduced demands for evidence. This was clarified in order that, as a total accumulation stated, one should have the opportunity to individually try their case before the court - against the state. This is -- I repeat it -- no intervention in an ongoing trial. This is to clear the way for many -- if they're working -- to go to the stage of trying their case individually. That there is a person at the head of this is clear, and she is a brave woman. I got a message from her yesterday, and I have her permission to refer from it. I'll be brief, just quote a little: ‘It is good to learn that not everyone accepts that public Norway has committed serious abuses against young children. Now it remains to be seen whether the majority of the Grand Duchy has changed its mind on this matter or whether they are willing to stand firm on what was read from the Grand Duchy’s pulpit on 10 June 2005.’ Favor will be, says the Council of State, if you drop the limitation. This group actually needs one never so little favor. They have through the theft of their childhood not experienced much favoritism. Here - and must - there must be exceptions, as the Progress Party sees it. It's an intrusive signal the Government sends on behalf of the Government--for it must be on its behalf. It is a cruel announcement to children with orphanages who, in some cases, have received municipal cheapness compensation, and who may have received state cheapness compensation after applying for it, but who still want to try their case in Norwegian law, individually and on their own. Often it is more important than measuring the amount of compensation in kind to have their case tried and, through a confession in favour of the plaintiff, to get an upliftment and a confession that you have actually suffered an injustice. By a positive verdict, the plaintiff also receives some sort of excuse from the state and from the big community. There is a cruel message the Council of State chooses to give. I believe that there is a clear misinterpretation of Storting's decision. I also believe that there is a clear neglect in the fact that the Council of State is obliged to follow up the Storting's statements given in the form of a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1108	St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 refers to a tragic aspect of Norwegian child protection history. Many have had their childhood and adult life ruined. The 2003 survey, which was appointed in 2003, concluded that care failure and serious physical, mental and sexual violations occurred in orphanages and special schools. The examples are many and rough. In the case of sexual abuse, the violations by both employees and older children occurred in the institutions, and there is reason to believe that the care failure occurred in most orphanages and special schools. The survey concluded that during the period 1945-1980 there was a significant incidence of sexual abuse in child protection institutions and that most of the abuses were committed by employees. For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 concluded that many former orphanage children and children from special schools have been subjected to serious care failures and abuses. There's no doubt about it. The selection pointed out that it could be difficult to obtain compensation under the general rules on compensation, due inter alia to: lack of accountability, lack of evidence and, in particular, limitation. In view of this, the Storting adopted special adaptations in relation to the lavishness replacement of the Storing. The requirements for proof were lowered and essential emphasis was to be placed on self-declaration and confirmation of child-care facilities. The amount of the compensation is up to 300000 kroner. This applies only to this group. We know that archives and papers from the institutions are deficient. It was therefore important for the Committee to clarify that adjustments should be made to both evidence requirements and compensation measurements for this group. It was also clarified that the compensation under an adapted compensation scheme would not deprive persons from this group of the opportunity to seek redress in the light of the same circumstances. It is a great responsibility when the public comes in and assumes responsibility for children who are at risk of care failure. In St.meld. No 24 points out that the State was responsible for overseeing the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Children's Protection Inspectors and subsequently through the county councillors of the Children's Protection Secretaries. Political powers were also responsible for legislation and regulation as well as the overall responsibility of the relevant disciplines. It is therefore not possible to point to a clear division of responsibilities between the State, the municipalities and the private sector. Responsibilities must be assessed in detail in individual cases. The SV, after examining the notification, has been concerned with the flexibility and adaptability of the compensation scheme. It is important that the length of the procedure should be reduced so that they do not have to wait for this response for several years. This is perceived by many as a new attack. SV is of course behind the comment we made in its time. We assume that the Committee's comment on the limitation period will be taken into account in these cases, and will indicate that in St.meld. No 24 refer to Innst. O. No 18 for 1995-1996, where it says: ‘The Committee points out that the State has the opportunity to waive an objection of limitation, and that this is also done almost without exception in practice where the injured person would otherwise suffer innocent losses. The Committee would stress the importance of consistent follow-up to this practice, not least in cases where public claims are made for maladministration or misconduct against children and young people. The Committee considers that it would be clearly unreasonable for injured parties to be met with a claim for limitation in such cases and asks the Ministry to ensure that the rules on limitation of limitation are applied in accordance with the assumptions laid down.’;» Finally, SV is concerned that we need to ensure that there is an abuse and care failure in the protection of children in the future. Therefore, quality assurance and a functioning control and supervision system are essential. These horrible events must not happen in the future. We need to cooperate on this, and we need to make sure that it does not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1132	I want to thank the interpellant for taking up an important matter. This is a matter that the Christian People's Party has worked with over many years - first in government, then in opposition. When it was discovered that several children had been subjected to care failure and abuse while incarcerated in child-rescue institutions, former councillor Laila Davøy set down a selection to identify the extent and background of care failure and abuse against children's home children in the period 1945-1980. The mapping selection was led by Edvard Befring, and the selection presented its report on 1 November 2004. In the distribution, it was documented that many of the children were subjected to serious abuse and lack of care. Befring-selection stressed that the public had a special responsibility for these children. The authorities took care of their children when they were placed in children's homes and in special schools. The selection recommended that the GSPs be based and that the GSPs be the most relevant for those qualified to replace the GSPs. The Bondevik II government followed up the selection recommendations in St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005. The Christian People's Party, on the same lines as the interpellant, is very surprised that there is a claim of limitation in claims that former children's children have travelled against the state. Int. S. No 217 for 2004-2005 a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs wrote the following: ‘The Committee supports the assessment by the Ministry, but recommends that limitation is not applied to matters relating to this group.’ The size has given clear guidance on how the state should and should act. Since the state does not follow the leaders of the Storting, the Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, makes proposals in connection with the 2008 government budget. In the proposal, we asked the government to make sure that there is no claim of retirement from the state. Unfortunately, the proposal was defeated by the government party. In addition to responding to the violation of the Great Britain's leadership when it comes to obsolescence, the Christian People's Party is also upset over a very long trial period. When Stortinget dealt with the matter, there was complete agreement to grant compensation of up to 300,000 kroner to former children's home and school children. The basis for the compensation was to provide some financial compensation for the wrong done. At the same time, it was emphasised that no sum of money could compensate for the abuses that these children have been subjected to. The amount of compensation is determined on a discretionary basis based on an overall assessment of what is reasonable in the individual case. The Storting has decided to set up an additional cheap substitute selection to cover an expected increase in the number of applications for cheap state fund replacements from new groups in society. This applies, inter alia, to: a child of former orphanage and a schoolchildren. The new selection should be able to contribute to the progress of these cases. It's urgent to get it listed by the Department, because we know that there are many things waiting to be treated. At the same time, we know that there are several plugs in the system, including: has been one of several people who have been able to influence how quickly things can happen. It turns out that former orphans and schoolchildren who have applied to the State for compensation for a broken childhood have to expect to wait up to three years before their applications are processed - some are waiting even longer. When Stortinget decided to provide this group with a discount of up to NOK 300000, no one believed that the treatment period could be so long. Most of the children who have experienced abuse have had to wait many years to be trusted and get uprooted by the public. It is extremely important that one gets further in these matters. The pain and suffering that many people have suffered will never be measurable in dollars and cents. For a red-green government that has profiled itself as the weakest of its speakers, it must be impossible to live with today's situation. I only have one message for the council: Clean up! The former children's home children have been attacked by the state, and tend to be met with much more humility and cleanliness than they have become. It is important that this is taken into account by the Government, and that the Storting should continue its work when it comes to the selection of cheap substitutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1163	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, and I regret. I regret that, in the interests of children's homes and schoolchildren, we entered a consensus in the previous growing-up period. To avoid tearing up growing wounds, we chose not to change the law, but we set aside some premises and assumptions. There were assumptions that we have heard that the Workers' Party no longer supports. SV and the representative May Hansen should be very grateful that they stand on what we meant at the time, and that even if you have been in government, you dare to have integrity and stand for what we did. We did so for the sake of the parties involved. That's why I'm sorry that what we said at the time, not really taken seriously. But I will promise the Council of State and the Workers' Party that we will do ours. We do not accept that a comment from a total accumulation is not used as a premise in a legal interpretation. We're going to make a private proposal for a change of laws. We will also consider sending the matter to the Control and Constitutional Committee because the Government chooses to disregard a comment and does not consider it binding in the same way that a decision is obvious. I can promise the Council of States that we will not forget. The progress party is not going to forget. I thank the Christian People's Party and the SV for their standing with us and making sure that we do not allow ourselves to be forgotten, and that we are still fighting for the orphanage children - and now more loudly because the consensus that was laid down is obviously broken. But thank you all for the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1173	I just want to repeat that we do not ignore the Committee's comments. As I said, a committee comment is not a formal decision by the Stortinget, but the comment is of great political importance. We have also strengthened the processing capacity because we look seriously at these matters, and we hope to assume that the processing time will be in line with what is foreseen, that is. one year. Otherwise, there are special rules for when you can ignore old age, and that's in very special cases. I have otherwise explained what the state has done to see these orphanage children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1180	Then the debate in case is 4 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1191	We just have a sports galla where sports celebrated themselves, behind us. It was with great satisfaction that I observed that the Minister of Culture was there too. If I could then say it--with his nose for what draws the audience, I was also in no particular doubt about it. The councils handed out one of the most popular prizes and were out in their review of sport. Freely rewritten, I think he said something like that without sport and without culture, Norway could have had as much oil revenue as possible -- we would have been a poorer country. He's nodding, so I guess I've rendered it pretty much right. He kept saying that when athletes perform in the world class, we become a little proud, and we feel like part of them. They represent values that we strive for. With these statements, I really thought that the Council of State had already started the preparations for the interpellation. His way of speaking under obligation. He should have thought through that there are many young practitioners who rate, for each practitioner who reaches the top. There are many practitioners who sacrifice as much time and resources as the winner, but without ever getting to the top. They bet full-time, but only get the satisfaction of having tried and of having tested their performance limit back. The Minister of Culture gave the impression of being so close to these challenges that I expect the Council of State to confirm that, together with his colleagues in the Ministry of Knowledge, he will focus on ensuring that young practitioners are given an optimal opportunity to invest in sport and education in parallel. The aim of sport is to develop the whole human being. The last sport policy document adopted by the NIF at Sport in 2007 confirms what has been the sport’s own objective for many years, namely: «secure younger performers who are still in a study situation, the best framework conditions for combining studies and top-level sport». It's a goal that society shares with sport through the last big-time report on sport. The main message ‘Irregularity in Change’ states that one should work to facilitate the combination of education and top-level sport for practitioners with interest and prerequisites to test out the possibilities of a top-level sport career. Norway is not alone in wanting top-level sports performance. We are also not alone in organizing. Even I enjoyed the fact that the United States has a fantastic offer at university level. There universities compete against each other, and they put great prestige in being the best in sports. In order to attract talents, scholarships are offered that cover school money and also scholarships for living. In many European countries, it is not uncommon for the public to employ sportsmen whose only real function is to train and become the best possible sport. This is done because sportsmen in many cases are not only good role models, but they also develop the ability to plan, target/systematic work, prioritisation, teamwork, language skills, social skills, knowledge of other cultures, etc., etc. So they get a real competence that many people don't acquire at the same age. I would assume that this was the reason why, in a letter to the Norwegian Olympic Committee dated 30 July 1995, the Hernes State Council wrote that if top-notch sport has led to a weaker school performance than they would normally have been, the recording bodies may, in cases where this can be demonstrated, assess the applicant separately. That's my impression, and this is documented by the University of Lillehammer, that at the institutions where organization works well, it turns out that top athletes perform better than the average student. I don't want to put much emphasis on that right now, but it confirms that if society organizes and creates good frameworks around the performer, sports and education can be combined. I think that's important. There are only a few extremely few who reach a level where they can live by sport. But there are very many who will be able to benefit from the self-esteem and the many good qualities that sport can contribute to develop, if they are given the opportunity to pursue their interest a long way on the road. These are qualities that society will later benefit from, and we owe both those that give us the national pride and the headlines, and the many that do not reach that point, to focus on this. There is an increased focus on quality, requirements and throughput in today’s school debate. It serves both students and institutions. It's a focus I share the need for. However, peak sports performance comes at an early age and must come in parallel with the preparation of the sportsman for adult life. The needs of sport therefore apply to a small group, are special and they carry out an activity that definitely gives them both a development and a real competence that benefits individuals and society. There should be a good basis for discussing some special adaptations. The challenge today is three levels. It applies to higher education, to the admission and implementation of higher education and to the State Loan Fund. It is not money, but the right attitudes and opportunities I have got the impression that the sport is asking for. If the nation and the state council mean something with the beautiful words about sport, performance, values and national identity, not many sportsmen must be put in a pinch where they are forced out of one to follow the other. Before high school, sport has had two offers. One applies to the top gymnasiums, NTG and Wang. This works. Public schools have also adapted an offer. We have a three-year sports line, and some schools and sports lines have offered the three-year standard offer, but distributed over four years. Those who choose this offer will no longer be able to receive initial testimonies, as I understand it. They will then have a disadvantage over admission to higher education. This should be easy to do by cooperating with the NIF and the Ministry of Knowledge on where to authorise such offers and on how many practitioners there should be an opportunity to address them. For higher education, perhaps the Hernes State Council’s letter to the Norwegian Olympic Committee should be enough. However, the higher education sector consists of autonomous institutions which themselves will be responsible for monitoring this. This means that practice varies. Many institutions do what they can to facilitate and take into account, while others meet the sport and sportsman with little knowledge of the challenge and little willingness to make individual adaptation and guidance. The concern in sport is high because the common complaint subject for admission to basic education at universities and colleges, on the basis of an individual case currently being treated, has stated that sport and other cultural activities are not such a special situation as may be covered by Sections 7 to 21 of the admission regulation. If this opinion is passed, sport is in many ways on a bare ground in this context. This includes the fact that sport has been relatively actively encouraging individual practitioners to apply for special assessment. The last thing I think we need to pay attention to is the state loan fund and student finance. The loan box today imposes strict implementation requirements. It has to do with the possibility of borrowing and the right to have loans converted into scholarships. It goes without saying that a top-level athlete can't follow this progression. It must not disqualify in order to be eligible for the scheme. Then the athlete is given a disadvantage. An approval scheme in which the NIF is involved to assess who is to be included would easily form the basis for an exemption scheme. My concern is not about the practitioners we read the most about in the press. For them, sport is a living, and it provides economic security. They create a life base in sport. My concern is how we create the basis for someone to get there, and for all the practitioners who bet the same amount, but who never get there. Sport is an extreme performance society. A lot of people have to bet and knife with each other in order for someone to be top in the world. These must not be sacrifices. They must be able to evolve as whole people, as sport wants. It's our shared responsibility to facilitate. I don't think there's any remorse behind anyone. But there is also no expectation that there is a broad understanding and a great deal of knowledge in all environments about what is required to perform sport at the top level. Nor should it be the case that the needs of sport for special schemes become an opening for many to escape more easily from requirements during the training period. That's why I think there's now a great need to see this again in a bird's-eye view. This can be done by the Minister of Culture putting this on the agenda of the State Councils of the Ministry of Knowledge and bringing NCIs into close dialogue. Then you can make some overall control signals and some offers at the different levels that sport and Knowledge Norway agree on. This will make it easier for all parties, and then hopefully the nation can also look forward to many good experiences on the arena or in front of the TV screen, without having to have a bad conscience for those who sacrifice so much of their work career, or that someone fails to bet because of lack of organization. I hope for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1226	The representative, Gundersen, addresses an important topic in his interpellation. I'm dividing 100 pst. his assessments of the positive effects of sport and sport on individuals and society. It's educational, it's disciplining, there's a lot of qualities you get from an active sports life that you don't just get on the school bench. I can also fully agree with what I said in the sports gallery - it was very good to say! The combination of education and top sport action is important in both a sport policy and a education policy perspective, and I have also picked up input from the Ministry of Knowledge in the preparation of the response to the interpellation. Knowledge and competence are becoming more important and important in our modern society, and education is increasingly the road to employment. This also applies to those who are betting on a top sport career. A top sports career usually ends at a relatively young age, and by combining sport with education, the performer will stand more fully rusted on the day of the sport career. In fact, experience also shows that many practitioners perform better if they have anything else to do with sports. The concept of ‘all-people’ is central to the vision of top sports betting by the Norwegian Sports Federation. The point is that the practitioners should be developed as whole people, not just as top athletes. It involves facilitating development in non-sports areas, such as study, protection, career development, job opportunities and family life. The Norwegian Sports Association at the Olympic Summit is currently cooperating with educational institutions at both secondary and higher education levels. The Olympic Summit also regularly informs about the possibilities for combining top-level sport and education and what agreements have been reached with different places of study. There are some challenges involved in combining top-notch sports with education. For more top athletes, the sport career is almost a full-time position, and combination with education will in many cases require some organisation. There are both private and public high-school sports. Among the public, I would like to mention the top sports schools in Åsane and Voss. The top-notch offer is here a collaboration between the Hordaland County Municipality, the Olympic Summit West Norway and the Hordaland Sports Circle. I would also like to mention that the Olympic peak in Central Norway has established cooperation with Meråker and Heimdal secondary schools. In the case of private schools entitled to state subsidies, Section 2-1 of the Private School Act allows private schools providing specially organised secondary education in combination with top-level sport. Such schools receive State grants of 85 pst. at a rate for sport, based on average operating costs per person. pupils in public schools. Norway's Toppiedrettsgymnas and Wang Toppedrett are the leading private toppedretsgymnas. Schools combine top-notch and general education and provide general study competence for higher education and universities. Both schools are nationwide and offer to practitioners in a number of laps. Schools cooperate with the Olympic Summit and relevant special federations in sport. NTG has departments in Bærum, Geilo, Lillehammer and Kongsvinger. Wang Toppidrett is located in Oslo, Stavanger and Moss. In addition to the statutory subsidy under the Law on Private Schools, schools also receive grants under a separate budgetary decision, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008, which is: ‘The schools of Wang and Norway Toppiedrettsgymnas will receive, in addition to the supplement under private school law, approximately NOK 17 000 in separate toppedretskosten per student. The supplement is given for a maximum of 810 elephants.’» It can therefore be noted that at a higher level there are a number of professionally qualified training offers for young practitioners who are in a top-ranking career. The challenge of combining top-level sport with studies is probably greater when it comes to higher education than it is when it comes to higher education. Very many athletes find a good combination in order to complete higher education and pursue their sport. There are also a number of higher education institutions that facilitate top-level sport. In addition to Norway's Sports School, I would like to mention the University of Lillehammer in particular. All studies are organized here, and the school has its own guide for top athletes. The initiative was launched as a project collaboration between the school, the Olympic peak, the Norwegian Ski Association, the Norwegian Skishooting Association and the Norwegian Toppidrettsgymnas. The initiative is now set up as an integral part of the study offer, and the University of Lillehammer has 160 top-level students, divided into 15 different studies. NTNU in Trondheim cooperates with the Olympic Summit in Middle Norway on the organisation of top-level sport and education and has its own supervisor who provides the organisation. The University of Finland and the College of Bodø have also signed an agreement with the Olympic Summit and are trying to facilitate all studies. The Olympic Summit further cooperates with BI to organise the bachelor's studies. In other words, there are many good examples of adapted systems for combining top-level sports betting and education, including at higher education level. Most have been developed in cooperation between individual schools and sports. There is therefore already extensive cooperation between public educational institutions and sport, as the representative Gundersen calls for. I would also like to stress that public legislation does not in any way prevent the organisation of top-notch students. According to § 4-3 of the Law on Universities and Universities, the Board of Directors of the individual institution has overall responsibility for the learning environment of the students. The fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: ‘The institution shall, as far as possible and reasonably practicable, facilitate the study situation for students with special needs. The organisation must not lead to a reduction in the professional requirements of the individual study.» Top-notch sportsmen are a group with such a need for specific arrangements. Individual schools and students need to work together to find solutions to combine top-level sport and education in a good way. The challenge lies in achieving a common and comprehensive approach and convergence among educational institutions on these issues. The feedback I have received indicates that top sportsmen meet somewhat different practices in that field, depending on the place of study they come to. This is probably due to varying knowledge among educational institutions of the particular situation of the performers, by combining top-level sports and studies. While some places of study, through cooperation with sport, have found that practical organisation is feasible, there may be others who are more uncertain about their behaviour when a sportsman addresses matters of organisation. Information flows and transfer of experience between educational institutions are an important keyword here. An example of such transfer of experience is the employment of a senior sports instructor at NTNU in Trondheim, according to the same model as at the University of Lillehammer. I believe that sport and educational institutions together can contribute to a more comprehensive strategy for combining top-notch sport and education. Finally, I believe that sport and the places of study have mutual benefit in facilitating the relationships of practitioners who want to combine a bet on top sports with studies. Vice-Chancellor Sonja Ekker of the Nord-Trøndelag High School stated in 2004 the following about the importance of facilitating top-ranking athletes: ‘- Sports youth is an important resource for HiNT, and we would like to give them a tailor-made offer that will enable them to succeed in both sport and education. [[...]] Such an offensive approach should guide cooperation between educational institutions and sport in facilitating the combination of top-notch action and education. I would therefore like to take an initiative towards my colleagues on the education side, in order to assess possible measures to establish a more equal practice of education provision. I would also very much like to work closely with sport to disseminate skills on how this can be organised at individual educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1280	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was about as positive as I had hoped it would be, and I thank you for the review that was taken. I think it's right that you have a lot of good offers in higher education, but there is also the greatest need for a very wide offer. It's not good to pick out a performer who is 15, 16 or 17, and say who gets top when they get 25. That illustrates that you have to have a lot of things up. I did not record that the Council of State said anything about the four-year offer that some public schools have had, where they have spread the usual three-year education over four years. It's actually a pretty important offer somewhere in the country. I fully share the opinion of the Council of State that the challenge is probably even greater in higher education. There are a number of good examples, and the Council of State even mentioned it in the case of the Lillehammer College, and in the case of the Nord-Trøndelag High School, I wasn't very familiar with it. The college in Lillehammer has a very good offer. I think you're already on the right track with the review that the Council of State had in terms of NTNU and the recruitment of a top sports instructor, and by ensuring that you get an exchange of experience between the different institutions. Based on what the Council of State said, I look forward to hearing what others say about the matter. I was pleased with the first briefing, and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1295	I believe that in the national Parliament we are discussing this matter, in itself can contribute to a positive development. I think it's often not bad will it's on, but just knowledge and competence about how it's going to be organized. There may be as simple things as the representative now talks about in higher education, which can also apply to higher education, namely that the study needs to be taken over a longer period of time. You're actually part-time students, because you spend a lot of your time on top sports. Compulsory lectures, tests or activities may be difficult to carry out because top-level sports activities take place at the same time. We don't want our best hope in an Olympics or in a World Cup to be at home, because you have an exam that's indispensable right then. It may be that special guidance or information is needed in a different way from that of the other students, because you did not look at those degrees to the daily attendance at the place of study. It should also be said that through the quality reform, educational institutions have built up greater skills in dealing with part-time students, i.e. students who spend part of their time on things other than studies. In this way, top athletes may benefit from it, but many top athletes also have ambitions to complete the studies in normal time, even if they do sports, so not everyone can be put into the category of parttime students. Here, I think, quite simply, more awareness is needed, skills are needed, knowledge is needed and a good dialogue is needed between the Sports Federation, the Olympic Summit, the special federations and the educational institutions. Nor can we expect sportsmen themselves to take the job of organizing the study and informing the study site of all the needs they have. There will only be an additional burden on all the other activities of reading, preparing for examination, carrying out duties and tests, as well as sporting and competitive activities. Here, I think the sports leaders, the Olympic Summit, those who are employed and get considerable sums - and increasing sums - to facilitate top-notch sport, have to take a considerable responsibility, and then on our side we have to work together, meet and use the structures we have through the ministry and other governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1306	Let me first give praise to the interpellant for the theme that he has taken up. I agree with the Council of State that we can certainly be even better, and that sport and educational institutions can learn more from each other, so that it is even easier for more people to combine top-level sport with education - both at a higher level and in higher education. In Norway, we have a lot of top athletes and other practitioners who get amazing results. I mean it's almost unnatural that we with our probably 4.5 million. The population has to have as many capable practitioners as we have, who achieve the best results they can. The main reason why we're doing this, I think, is that we have a sports movement that sympathizes that everyone gets the law and the ability to participate, a sports movement that gathers all parts of the population, that invites everyone who wants to do it. It creates strong communities, it creates involvement, it gives children and young people self-confidence and a sense of community, participation and chiselling. I mean Norwegian sport is an unlikely good example that there are strong communities that lead us forward, and I'm sure that without the popular massif in Norway we never had in the world asserted ourselves the way we do in the Olympics, the World Cup and what it must be of championships and competitions around the world. In addition to having a sports movement that gives many top athletes, my impression is that we have a sports movement that is aware that one is a top sportsman for a very short period of time quite early in life. This is why sport is busy that the practitioners should also have a life after top-notch, which requires jobs that require education. The Norwegian Sports Association itself says, as it has been referred to earlier in the debate, that one is busy ensuring the best framework conditions for combining top sports and study. This is why there is also a lot of good cooperation between different specialised associations and different educational institutions, e.g. at Lillehammer. The Lillehammer region has set itself the goal of becoming the most complete winter sports destination in Europe. It involves and makes demands on many people: for sport - of course - for the municipalities, for business and not least for the Højskulen in Lillehammer and the top sports gym at Lillehammer. On the university level, a specialised education can now be provided within a very large number of educational courses, so that it is possible to combine education with top-level sports betting. There is a lot of emphasis on having a good guide for the students. It's important for the school, for the sport, and of course most important for the student and the student. Other places in the country teach one of the things that are done at Lillehammer, both other educational institutions and sports. Last weekend we got a new sniper queen: Solveig Rogstad from Valdres. Ho tells us that there is a better set-up for her medical studies at NTNU, such as: This weekend she became the world's best skiers, a collaboration between herself, the university she's studying at, and the sports community she's part of. We are talking about football or handball players who take exams at ambassadors around the world while representing Norway in various championships. Examples could be many more. I think in some countries a little shakes on the head when Norwegian practitioners go to the embassy in the middle of a championship to take the exam. For many, it's probably pretty boring. I think Norway is far ahead when it comes to being aware of the importance of education for top athletes. But it may also be that other countries that have the same values and attitudes to sport and education as us do a good job, a work that we can also learn from. Therefore, we should also be able to gain experience from other countries where it is possible and natural. Much good is done, both from the educational side and from the sport. When the Olympic peak was established in its time, it was precisely one of the reasons why one in the field of sport would alternate in order to achieve even better results. It has undoubtedly been a great success. Many can certainly learn more from each other also in questions related to education combined with top sports. Therefore, it makes sense for one to sit down across departments and special associations and discuss through different measures and instruments, so that one can get a more similar practice, which affects both sport, educational institutions and – most importantly – the individual top-level sportsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1332	Let me first say that sport is enormously important, and youth and sport are also equally important. The interpellant is dealing here with a very important question, which, in my view, affects broader than top sport alone. For the Progress Party, it is important that all students and students have the opportunity to combine special talents with studies, without therefore being penalised financially. However, in the case of top sports, Norway’s Top Sports Gymnas is one of the most well-known actors. There are also other peak gymnastics in Norway. For most secondary schools offering top-notch sport as a specialisation field, common is that they are private. This shows that private schools have been particularly important in complementing society where the public has not been able to offer anything. That is precisely why we need private providers, and that is precisely why the Progress Party wants to give all educational institutions equivalent conditions when they meet the national requirements set for the content of education. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the most comprehensive strategy that the Government should put in place in relation to combining education and top-level sport is, in fact, to give private schools in this area the same conditions as public schools in order to finance the offer. We know today that one example at Norway’s Toppidrettsgymna is struggling to make ends meet in relation to the requirements set out in the new Private School Act. Private schools, such as NTG and other private providers of education combined with top-notch sports, currently receive only 80 or 85 pst. the contribution of what the publicly owned schools receive. In fact, this means that schools must operate more efficiently than ordinary general schools, while offering top-notch services to their students. Everyone understands that this places great demands on schools, and not least on management. In addition, these secondary schools don't get more than 85 pst. grants may not take more than 15 pst. the cost of school money. In addition, they must have an offer that is open to all. With today’s system, therefore, a school like Norway’s Toppidrettsgymnas etc. can’t. take more than approx. $20,000 in school money. And the offer must be open to everyone. Open to everyone? But, are they now? When, because of today’s funding system, schools have to take school money to finance the offer, the offer is not, in principle, open to all. This is precisely the paradox of the government's policy for private schools and for top-notch students. It's only students who have money for themselves, or parents who want to contribute financially to education, who can afford to take such education. With such a policy, it is precisely those with the thickest wallet that can buy the desired education. Children and young people with talent, but with poor advice, will not be able to participate in these schools. As a result, there is actually an economic barrier. Gunnar Gundersen pointed out the possibility of scholarships, which may also be something to look at. There is, of course, the United States, as mentioned in a country in the first place. When we say in the same way that an extra grant to top sports schools, as the Council of State points out, is well and good, isn't it also important to say that a talent in sport is worth a lot? But what about a talent in physics, a talent in mathematics, etc.? Who can say that one is better than the other, or that one is more important than the other? In my view, there will be some games for the gallery when the government talks about it being nice and great with young people who are doing top-notch sports, and is pleased that the private foundations that do not take profits offer to combine education with top-notch sports, because they do not want to give the same economic conditions as for the public schools. The Progress Party believes that the best place to start is to give the schools that provide such an offer, the same public funding as today's public schools. Only then will our young people have equal opportunities to succeed in their education and with their talents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1351	There's almost nothing that makes my heart beat harder than when I think back at three miles under the Olympics at Lillehammer in 1994. It was about 13 minus degrees in the air. It was a sea of people on Lillehammer. They didn't even see the cold. The air was almost still because of the tension in the air. I knew it through the TV route all the way to Tromsø. I didn't say Tromsø 2018. I'd like to do that. The 1994 OL minutes were large. They give us as a nation an identity and a cohesion, and they make us engaged. I must admit that I am one of those who appreciate winter sports the most. Football is kind of not my thing, but it's also important to the nation. Good performance is important, and it is important for top athletes in Norway. Top-notch athletes are increasingly demanding both in performance and exercise. It is important that they are role models, and they are important role models for very many children and young people. They're nothing but what we want, they're positive role models, healthy and clean role models for the next and growing generation -- and also for us who are a little bit older. That means that sport has a great responsibility, and so do we, as representatives of the Stortinget. It is important that we facilitate opportunities for education, because it can often be a short career for our top athletes, and they must then have something to fall back on when they finish their career. Knowledge and competence are only becoming more important and important and almost necessary in our modern society. Soon, the only way back to work is through education. The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, takes up a very important theme, and you should always listen to the one that's wearing the shoe. Or, in a more precise way: when a former top sportsman promotes an interpellation about an overall strategy for education for top sportsmen, it is important and worth listening to. Governments were in a number of areas of secondary education, and indicated that there are a great many possibilities for combining sport and school. It turns out that there are both good private and good public high-school sports. I also want to add that there are many rural lines in our districts that are very important, and that have lines for skiing, slums, etc. The representative Gunnar Gundersen was also in the private schools. It was also the representative of the Progress Party on the inside. That's why I just want to take a little look into Norway's Toppiedrettsgymnas and Wang Toppedrett, which are among the top private toppedrets. These schools get 85 pst. financing from Stortinget. In addition, they also receive a grant to receive about 17 000 kroner in a separate top-ranking premium per year. student. But from Stortinget's side, there's a limitation on the number of students. That's 810 students. That's what the private schools have brought up with us, because they have more students than they receive grants for. That's why they have financial problems, and not because this government has tightened up the private school law. We are concerned that we should be able to run top-notch sports while at the same time being able to pursue education. We have a lot of people who do it, and it works very well in many areas. I still think Gunnar Gundersen is about a very important topic when he calls for a national strategy. The top-notch is increasingly demanding, and there are also a lot of young people entering into this earlier than before. The media focus has been on pure sports, doping problems, eating disorders, etc. I believe that these themes should be taken into account by the Council of State when discussing a possible comprehensive strategy in the field of top-notch sport. Finally, where were you when Oddvar Brah broke the staff? These are a lot of people who can answer. I hope the next question is: Where were you under the OL in Tromsø in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1370	The debate has shown that there is quite a consensus both on the place of sport in Norway and that it is important to organise. Something else I really didn't expect. Let me comment on the posts. I think Johnsen is right that it's almost not to believe that we have such good performance in Norway -- at the top of the world -- that we have. When it comes to the issue of private school law, which Schmidt's representative raised, we're all familiar with it. My interpellation today was not to take a rematch on it. That's why I didn't have anything to do with it, but the number of places is definitely a problem that the Minister of Culture could bring with him. The 85% is not being debated at this time. The number of places with grants, in particular on Wang, is a major issue, which is well covered by the treatment of the State budget by the Education Committee. In notes, the Council of State finds what he needs to know about it. So to the representative Jensen, who said football wasn't her thing. We all have our pants. We know what we want to look at, and that means a lot to us. We got confirmation of that. As I also said at the outset, I believe this is primarily about attitudes. There's not much going on money, and it's always nice to discuss things that don't go so much on money, because then it's easier to get to something. Governments were in the midst of quite good solutions. I understood that he would take the initiative with his fellow Councillors and also bring NIF into that debate. Then I think you'll get far, especially if you also start looking at this with exchange of experience. It is clear that it is not possible to expect all institutions to be competent, and not all of them to be equally involved in what is required to pursue top-notch sport. It can be that someone has that competence, and that you know where to find help if you get in the situation that you needed it. With what the Council of State has said, I am very pleased with the debate. I hope that the sport can also benefit from it and get the solutions they want, based on what has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1387	It is only to be noted that whether these issues exist there is broad consensus in the storeroom. We want a top-notch sport effort, and we want the top-notch sportsmen we have to get their life best organized both during their top-notch sports activity and afterwards. Fortunately, I am very sure that sport itself shares these objectives, and fortunately, it is actually such that good organization for study and activity alongside top-notch sport does not weaken top-notch performance, but actually strengthens them. It gives more security to the practitioners, and it gives better concentration to those who do sports, that you also have other work to do next door. I am convinced that the Olympic Summit and the NIF understand the issues, and that they will be important partners for us in ensuring that educational institutions facilitate them. I am also absolutely sure that the Governments of the Ministry of Knowledge also share these objectives and will contribute as far as they can to facilitate that educational institutions actually do what we have as a goal. When it comes to the dimensioning of higher education in different categories, I think I'm going to leave it to another State Council. He will answer and discuss this in budgetary terms and in other contexts where the Stortinget discusses higher education. Other questions have also been raised about the whole sportsman, who is top-notch. Eating disorders are such an important thing. Obviously, if that kind of problem comes up, it hits top-notch in a way we don't want, and it doesn't make top-notch athletes perform at most. This has to be taken seriously. Here we also have a bet within top-notch, and we have skilled professionals. There is a good basis for a sport effort, including for top-notch sport, that these are objectives shared by a total mass.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1402	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1417	We live in a well-organized and safe country. We're gonna be happy for that. Most people trust that the state has control over vital social functions and critical infrastructure. We should be happy about that, too. But we must not be naive and believe that vital systems, with great practical and safety significance for individuals and society, cannot fail. Technological developments provide opportunities for efficiency improvement and easier everyday life for all of us. However, with increasingly advanced and complex systems, there is also an increasing need for supervision and efficient backup systems. The fire at Oslo Central Station showed with all clarity the consequences, and not least the possible consequences, when the unimaginable happens. A debate on social security and vulnerability is therefore very important. This is what this is all about: the security of the functioning of the systems as they should, the security of the public at all times doing what is needed to ensure the country's infrastructure. The trains stopped going. But when telephony, broadband and even Norwegian crisis preparedness were affected by a simple cable fire at Oslo S, we need to go through thoroughly both the organisation and responsibilities of social security. The population in this country should feel confident that something like this will not happen again, and perhaps with even greater consequences. In 2006, the National Audit Office wrote that a fire affecting the operation of the police data centre will lead to the decommissioning of large sections of police information systems. According to the Newspaper, the Police Directorate then stated that the likelihood of such an event is small, but that the consequences are serious if it should happen anyway. Now we've seen that it can happen. Oslo S is particularly vulnerable because it is the hub of all central communications in the East, both in passenger and data and telecommunications. The incident also showed that one of the most complex nodes of the country has additional challenges in that there are many different actors in one place, both public and private, but no overall ‘station master’ who has control when the crisis is a fact This is a matter of the concept of social security and preparedness, and it gives a hint of how far, or how short, we have come to the main objective of the Government in St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 The road to a less vulnerable society. The formulations were as follows: Effective crisis prevention and serious failure in societal critical functionsEfficient crisis managementGood social emergency response organisation The Ministry of Transport has overall responsibility for security and preparedness in its field. In the Oslo S pipeline, there were live cables - five pieces, the railway station’s radio lines and traffic control for the entire East, several cables for private companies, among others. BaneTele, which runs fibre cable for telephony and internet use across large parts of the country. Most of what was in the same place was damaged in the fire. When we sum up where the responsibility lies, this event shows that six departments and five underlying agencies share the responsibility for the contents that burned in the coal field of Oslo S. In addition, the Railway Agency and the power supplier, who was Hafslund, come into the picture. It is known that the Government will present a major communication on social security and preparedness for this spring. Will the Council of State ensure that there will be an overall long-term plan of visible measures for the departments and underlying departments involved in the Oslo Central Station incident? It is known that the vulnerability of Oslo S emerged during the exercise Oslo 2006, which was organised by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. In addition, the directorate has previously pointed out that part of the infrastructure in Norway is old and that there is a large lag in the renewal of older equipment. The Directorate has pointed out that insufficient funds are allocated to the maintenance of critical infrastructure. Will the Council of State follow up the references made by the Directorate of the Supervisory Authority? The practice of co-localising socially critical cables has been questioned in the past, and the question is, What has the Ministry of Transport done in this matter? Many analyses must have been carried out, including: Vulnerability Analysis for Oslo S in 1998, as well as, as I have mentioned, Exercise Oslo 2006, which also revealed vulnerability. The Oslo S incident may either indicate that the vulnerability analyses were not good enough or that the measures have not been implemented. According to the media, the Railway Agency has said that it is too expensive to make a spare solution that can secure Oslo S with power and connection. The Ministry of Transport has proposed that the allocation of appropriations for tasks and actions in the field of social security and preparedness in the transport sector should be given priority within the ordinary budget of the Agency, but this cannot be a matter for the Railway Agency alone. The matter concerns the security of the country, and it really concerns the whole of the eastern region. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, all the statements are that it is too expensive to find robust solutions and prioritize social security and preparedness as a form of disclaimer. Does the Council agree that this is the case? Christian People's Party has taken note of this in NOU 2006:6 When security is most important, criticism of lack of responsibility is presented: ‘The responsibility for critical infrastructure is thus not separated as a separate subject area from the other responsibilities within one sector. Thus, there is no ‘whole-ness principle’ for the organisation of security and preparedness work which requires a department to maintain its integrity across departments.’ For the Christian People's Party, there are two issues that are absolutely crucial in this context: firstly, that as citizens we can have full confidence in the public doing what they can to ensure security. Then we have to be sure that critical infrastructure works as it should. Secondly, the public has effective systems to ensure the necessary coordination between the sectors. The councils were fast on the track when there was a fire at Oslo S. We in the Christian People's Party will give credit for that. I would also like to commend all those who have come up with an emergency to remedy a difficult situation. But this case is about more than a fire at Oslo S. It's about what systems we have to prevent and minimize chain reactions when an accident occurs and paralyzes parts of our societal critical infrastructure. It's about people feeling safe. It is about the day-to-day safety of each individual citizen, and then we have to ask if the coordination between the sectors, as it is today, is good enough. Is the division of responsibilities clear enough? Is it e.g. So the chaos that occurred at Oslo S occurred partly because there were so many different actors involved, as Jon Lea of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness suggested to NTB on 28 November? With new technology failure somewhere domino consequences we may not see for ourselves. Society is developing rapidly, and one of the most important tasks of the country is to ensure the security of its citizens. We must always ask ourselves whether coordination is well organised and the responsibilities clearly placed. What changes does the Council of State make to ensure optimal and effective organisation? The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness was not aware that the railway works have both high-voltage lines, low-voltage lines and signal cables in the same coal gate, the same pipeline. The directorate was not in the actual coal host when they were overseeing. The question then is, how can the Directorate as a supervisory authority be strengthened? In my interpellation, I ask what the Government will do to ensure vital social functions, including systems related to the traffic disruption at Oslo S, so that nothing similar will happen again. A debate on social security and vulnerability is not just about Oslo S, it's about our entire critical infrastructure. It's about us as citizens feeling safe in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1480	Night until 28 November 2007, digging outside Oslo Central Station led to soil defects in a power cable. Due to overload, a cable shot was destroyed, and a fire broke out in Hafslund Nett AS' high voltage cables under Oslo Central Station. Hafslund Nett's cables are in a colossal state with others. cables from the Railway Station, BaneTele AS and the NSB’s property company ROM Eiendom AS. In order to save the area and costs, it is very common for different companies to place their cables in the same ditch and coalfield. The fire developed so much smoke that the fire service had to evacuate the entire Oslo Central Station. The Railway Station Traffic Management Centre is located on the 9th floor of the operational and administrative building of Oslo Central Station. From this location, train drivers control train traffic in the majority of the Austland area. The railway station and ROM Eiendom are powered by the Hafslund Net at Oslo Central Station. The fire in the Hafslund Net high voltage cables led to the loss of normal electricity from the railway station to its installations. The railway station and ROM Eiendom have a common backup power supply unit that automatically starts when the normal power supply at Oslo Central Station is lost. The Aggregate provides power to the Traffic Management Centre and to all the Railway Works’ installations critical to train operation, such as remote control of the signalling systems and facilities providing information to the public and emergency communication. The facility was also designed to supply BaneTele's node room, which is a central node of the telecommunications network. Both the GSM-R mobile telephone network of the railway system and other facilities for customers of BaneTele were framed, because the backup power unit was not connected to the equipment in this room in the event of an error. It was therefore only battery backup that provided the equipment, and the battery was unloaded after approx. two hours. Before the fire service could turn off the cable fire, it had to ensure that the area was powerless, and the power supply had to be stopped. The railway station's own system also fell out after the battery for these plants stopped, but they returned relatively quickly. Due to the risk of toxic waste gases, it took time for one to connect the node room to BaneTele to a mobile backup power plant. The GSM-R network gradually came into operation around noon the next day. However, the railway works did not find that the power supply was stable enough to declare the railway tracks ready for operation before about 1 p.m. 18 the same day. GSM-R is an emergency connection for train operation and is absolutely necessary for safe train running. The fire in the cable envelope at Oslo Central Station was a major consequence of train traffic throughout the Austland area. The damage to the railway system's technical facilities was minimal. The spare-power systems worked as they should, and shortly after the fire service had secured the fire place and the building was freed, the railway station was in operation again. The reason why it took so long to get the train running started was mainly because BaneTele’s transmission unit was not stable enough for train traffic to start up again. In addition to the iron track being rammed, approx. 25 000 Internet customers and a number of telephone customers and customers of leased lines the connection for over ten hours. Some of the customers operate socially critically. The Ministry of Transport was informed about the event the same day, and I asked for information with assessments of the reasons and measures of the Railway Agency, the NSB and the Post and Telecommunications Authority. I met with the actors on 5 and 14 December and got detailed information on the course of events and the sequences and plans for further follow-up of the case. The government is serious about the event. It is important that social critical actions have a system for nud current. One can never fully prevent errors from occurring, but it is important that the sequences become at least possible, and that the backup system is tested and connected correctly. The direct cause of the power supply disruption was a lack of connection to the power supply. This has, of course, been corrected. BaneTele transmission device is now connected to backup power unit. However, there are several issues that are currently being addressed and that the ministry will follow up. The RU evaluates the event together with the train companies ROM Eiendom AS, Hafslund Nett AS and BaneTele AS. The railway system has reduced a multi-disciplinary group to monitor and analyse the vulnerability of the infrastructure to events that may have a similar impact on train traffic. The team shall consider increasing the flexibility of train management in the case of major deviations in train traffic, propose measures in the short and long term and address the costs of actions. The postal and telecommunications authorities have asked BaneTele to ensure that agreements and procedures relating to the testing of equipment with the power supply at Oslo S are improved and that deviation situations are practised. The Ministry has also requested that the Railway Agency carry out its contracts with subcontractors accordingly. The postal and telecommunications authorities will carry out a ROS analysis of the noderomma on Oslo S. The purpose is to identify if there is critical infrastructure that does not have redundant solutions in the alternative location. For customers that are critically dependent on the telecommunications connection, it is not satisfactory that the connection is broken due to a single failure of the network. Nevertheless, customers have to define the need for alternative telecommunications connections if the main connection fails. Service price/quality match. It is apparent from the eco-regulation that customers themselves have a responsibility to inform providers of the necessary services in an emergency situation. The idea is that the offeror and the customer should be able to provide some information on the security needs and the protection structure. In order to ensure social interests in addition to the responsibilities of the service provider and customers, the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is consulted on budgetary resources. For 2008, it's 23.5 million. DKK at the disposal of providers in order to cover their additional costs of indemnification measures imposed under the eco-innovation, including. for protective building materials and the placing of equipment together in secure installations. The Oslo S cable fire has also been discussed in a meeting between the directly involved actors and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, which is also the monitoring body for the electricity supply. DSB will draw up a report for the Ministry of Justice, including: based on the recordings at the meeting. The report will focus on the need for back-up solutions and better protection of cable envelopes at Oslo S. The Government will see the Justice Department report before further actions are taken. Finally, I would say that we can't guarantee 100 pst. uptime on neither power nor telecommunications, although of course it is desirable. One must also bear in mind that each actor has a self-responsive responsibility to ensure adequate nauding capacity within power and communication and to have plans for dealing with default situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1520	I would like to thank the Minister for a thorough and good answer. I also thank you for a thorough follow-up, not only a quick follow-up on the day something happens. As far as I can understand from the Minister for Transport's answer, she has grasped the matter in a good and exemplary way. It is very good that backup power solutions have come to Oslo S. I very much agree with the Minister that we cannot guarantee that accidents will not happen that can be followed, but what is the starting point for my interpellation is that, as far as possible, we must prevent, so that we can experience accidents as much as possible. Now we know that we are working on a social security message, which is going to come together with the long-term message for the defence. Then one of my questions to the Minister for the Ministry of Transport has been drawn into the work of the Social Security Communication, and whether one is satisfied that the Ministry of Justice has overall responsibility here, or whether one should, as suggested by the Directorate, look at the structure in the Department for how to deal with a Social Security Communication. From the Christian People's Party we see here a critical point, namely that it is up to each department within its own budgets, within its own tight budgets, to prioritise resources for social security. My question to the Minister is further whether it would not be a thought to earmark funds for the budget departments, the necessary funds, and to spend time looking at social issues in the sector. Finally, there are still five cables in the same sphere. Have any assessments been made as to whether or not to look at this and make alternative coal-verts for the different critical cables, so that we don't get the same width effects of a cable-break that we got in this round?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1535	I would like to thank the representative for addressing a very important question in Stortinget. The size has an important responsibility with the Government to ensure that critical infrastructure in society is secured. The government shall provide a social security message. It will also give the Storting a good opportunity to discuss further this important topic. As Minister of Transport, I am comfortable with the fact that the Ministry of Justice has overseen the responsibility for this message, and I am satisfied with the way the Ministry of Transport is dragged into the work. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for important tasks when it comes to reviewing our infrastructure - the one for which the Ministry of Transport is responsible - and is working on this through our offices and through our supervision. Etats have many priorities. We're looking for the most possible goal and framework management, and I think it's right that those who are closest to the infrastructure, and who are closest to assessment, are also the ones who should give priority to resources within the budget. It is important, of course, that one has a government that gives budget resources to the budgets which also allow them to give priority to the necessary actions in the area of critical infrastructure and its security. When it comes to creating alternative coal hosts, it goes without saying that it's a difficult thing. Nothing is impossible, but it would at least be particularly demanding to dig up alternative coal hosts under Oslo S. It's also true in other cities where one of them is similar to what one of them has done under Oslo S. They've put several sets of cables in the same pitch. I don't see that it's a way to go, but we need to look at how we can secure the coal doors even better. It's done. One looks at it today. So it's important, as I stressed in my answer, that the individual customer also has a responsibility here. I'm not going to bring out special single companies or single customers, but there are also examples of public enterprises that have done this job 100 pst. and secure. That's the example we have to transfer to the others, and then we're going to do our part of the job from the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1550	I will make a few comments relating to the matter, but first I would like to congratulate the interpellant. It was a terrible event, and it's important that it is followed up in many different ways. One of the good ways is what we're doing here in the Storting through this interpellation. In many ways, Oslo Central Station is the heart of a kind of meeting place between an important transport network and an important social security network. It is when both parts collapse that the really serious problems occur. Social security can obviously be improved. The event of 28 November gives us an unpleasant revelation that systems, responsibilities, coordination and back-up solutions can be significantly improved. As the interpellant also underlined, it is important to place overall responsibility. I also think it is important to provide secure funding, so that what is important to ensure the necessary social security is not eliminated within the individual actors' often very tight budgets. In this connection, I would like to make a request to the Council of State. We have received the draft national transport plan earlier today. When making the final proposal for the plan, the Ministry could consider including a chapter on the very meeting between the transport network and social security. As far as I can see from the draft, it is not mentioned. It is a main objective with the title of transport safety. Clearly, a good part of the infrastructure for which the Council of State is responsible is just as much about social security as it is about transport safety. Like the interpellant, I have noticed that the Council of State acted immediately and promised to follow this up in a thorough and good way. I have pointed out that one follow-up can be through a separate chapter and a separate reference in the final national transport plan. I hope that the Council of State, having looked at this, will come back to the Storting with the conclusions and not least the further recommendations for better social security in the light of this event. So it's also the way that this event mixes up a lot of things. Many trains stopped on November 28th. It has also happened after 28 November. It gives us an unpleasant reminder that not only can social security improve, but the equipment we have to operate rail passenger services is not good enough. It's old-fashioned, and equipment and materials need to be renewed. What is also revealed is that we obviously need to coordinate responsibilities. The individual operator may need to pay significantly more attention to the presence and actual functioning of the back-up solutions. We need good management of situations like this. They should not occur often, but if they occur, we must be able to deal with them in a somewhat better way than what was presented on 28 November. I repeat that there should also be a theme in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1565	I would also like to start by commending the representative Sahl, who is addressing a topic that is very topical in the light of the event we had on Oslo S on November 28, a topic that should be even more topical, because the government has now announced that it will follow up the communication on social security and preparedness. Like the representative of Sortevik, I have gone so far as to look at the new draft national transport plan. I found a little chapter on measures against terror and sabotage, but it's only on seven-eight lines. Councillor Navarsete has shown the power and will to follow up on what happened at Oslo S. That's good. I would, at least from the Right, recommend the Government to go a little closer to the work on just social security. I may be particularly concerned about this because I worked a lot on that matter in the last period, when I was in charge of the Justice Committee and I was in charge of the entire process of social security and preparedness. What became very clear in that process was that the critics thought there was too much coordination of the work. The national audit has now gone through the work on social security and preparedness. They have strongly criticised, in particular, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice for the lack of follow-up and lack of pressure at work, while the Minister of Justice has referred to the forthcoming report on this issue. Anyway, I think it's important for the Ministry of Transport to put more emphasis on it than what's now in the draft National Transport Plan, because we can risk similar cases in completely different places than Oslo S in the years that come. I think it is important that we, as transport politicians, also have the opportunity to go through these issues in a slightly more thorough way than what we achieve in an inter-pelling debate. That being said, there are often quite costly measures, such as: in the case of aerodromes and proposals for extending runway width, lateral protection measures, etc., and ports that need to implement measures. But as far as road and rail are concerned, I think that we should have a little more detailed review of that particular problem, because as it is put up now, at least, it is the individual department that is responsible for its sector, and then the Ministry of Transport can lead by example and take this challenge seriously. It is very easy to react afterwards and say that here we should probably have been leading was, but being leading was often quite expensive, so it becomes a balance - what measures you can take in relation to which other measures you want to give priority to. Having said that, I also hope that the emphasis will be placed on the work of looking at back-up solutions, for example. there are possibilities for redirecting train traffic to another control centre or reserve centre, and whether there are possibilities to do so as has been done in Denmark, to have an additional emergency centre in service in the event of a failure of critical infrastructure. So I hope that we'll have the opportunity to discuss this further, and that maybe it'll be a more complete part of the proposal of the NTP that the Council of State is presenting in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1580	Thanks to Jan Sahl who puts this important theme in focus. What happened night to Wednesday 28 November, I think I put a punch in all of us. I myself wrote a question to the Council of State just after the incident, and got the answer that she took this very seriously. She has also confirmed that here today. One thing is that the train traffic was paralysed when 800 trains were completely or partially cancelled, which affected 80,000 travellers - in addition, broadband connections and telephones were lost for large companies and important social functions like the police, on which the interpellant was also involved. I noticed in particular that there were no backup solutions for the power supply, and that, according to the media, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, which supervises the electrical safety of the Railway Agency, was not aware that the Railway Agency had both high-voltage lines, low-voltage lines and signal cables assembled in one coal gate. This, I think, is alarming information, and I hope that there will be a clarification of liability and that changes will be made to this, so that, in the future, there will be back-up solutions. There are several people here who have been involved, and the Council said something about it in its answer. The National Safety Authority stated to the Evening Post just after the incident that they were concerned about the Oslo S situation and that the train stop was an important reminder. Of course, the concern is linked to the vulnerability of sabotage and terrorist activities. The Deputy Director of the National Safety Authority was very critical of the Railway Agency because the safety of infrastructure was not better ensured. They also called for better coordination of supervisory activities. After the debate here today and after the Council of State answers, I have expectations that this important area will be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1595	I think it is good that the Stortinget, on the initiative of the representative Jan Sahl, has a round of the event that we had in November, and that illustrates the vulnerability of Norway if only one gets in the right situation, to say that - not least when one sees how much resources a user has on different security, for example. port security. Millions of dollars will be spent making the ports secure against terror, which probably means minimal in relation to what it's supposed to mean. At airports, a billion use to protect themselves against terrorists, which is probably also of little significance, while one can light up a small fire in a Oslo tunnel, and then the whole of Oslo stops. It should make us think and have a little perspective on the work done by national politicians in prioritising it as important. I think we should have a review of this, which many people have been in, squandered at how we actually spend money in some areas we shouldn't have spent so much money on when it comes to security and social security. Then there are a couple of problems that no one has traveled as far as I think are interesting from my point of view. One has had an ever-separation of state-owned companies to smaller units, so that one has gained more and more actors. To start with November 28th, no one wanted to take responsibility for this - but one more thing about finding a responsible person. Is there a lot of cooks, there's going to be a lot of waste? Is that what we see the contours of? Should a person think about when a drive and privatizes and privatizes? My party prefers to go the other way. Is it that we forget some perspective when we're just going to think that it answers, it's political sense to privatize, we're going to spend money on it, etc. -as the right-hand side traditionally argues? I think there's a lot of new problems that you didn't think about when you thought about how cheap it would be to split up state-owned companies. There is a problem that I think we need to look at in the future debates. There's kind of a little bit of a settlement mood here today, it's a little mild tone, I thought, because we've got a climate deal, which is now the shape of the assembly, and that's very good. I also thought there was an interesting signal from the NTP ETA tab today, where one has a completely different focus on maintenance than one had before. We politicians are very concerned about having some symbol, a monument that we're going to build in our own state - a new road or a new route, etc. Now one meant that maintenance needs to have a completely different focus than it has been so far. After all, this government has begun to do something about it, as we have turned a bit on maintenance - as opposed to previous governments. There are things going on, and it has positive consequences in relation to the issues we are discussing today. I'm convinced that if we spend more money on maintenance, there's less chance that there will be different accidents, as the representative Sahl is busy getting there today. So I just want to say that I think the government at the council has taken hold. We also propose to go on with the problem, as the Council of State itself said, and I think it's a good idea that we're thinking a little bit about taking the problem, like Sortevik and Helleland were in, entering the NTP and doing something more about it. It's actually a challenge for the hearing bodies, where the Right, the Advance Party and others are represented, to make sure that when NTP is consulted, it becomes a topic, so that it actually gets a lot of focus, and that it doesn't just focus on the road projects that you don't get with the proposal submitted to the manager. Thank you again to the representative Jan Sahl. I look forward to working together to do something about this important area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1610	We were many who were hit by the fire at Oslo S when the trains in the eastern part of the country stopped. For the passengers and us politicians, it was completely incomprehensible that fire and short circuiting in a cable could paralyze the entire train traffic in the East. According to the information manager of the NSB, Preben Kolstrup, half of the train traffic was hit. It hit the trains in Great Oslo and trains from Hamar, Drammen, Spikestad, Halden, Wysen, Gjøvik etc. Alternative transport was set up, but it was not possible to meet the need, so it became chaos. Many travellers did not come to work or were very late. There was also strong criticism that there was poor information for those waiting for trains. This is of course very serious. It is not acceptable that the infrastructure is so vulnerable that it can paralyze large parts of the country. That's why in the Workers' Party - and most others - we asked ourselves questions about the NSB and the Railway Agency have good enough preparedness and good enough risk analysis to prevent such events, and about what these agencies will do to prevent the corresponding chaos in train traffic in the future. In this respect, I am pleased that the interpellant has taken up this debate here in Stortinget, and I am pleased with the presentation of the Council of State in Stortinget today. It shows that this case has been addressed and is being followed up in a good way, so that in the future we can avoid such events. We also have other challenges - we have seen that this week - in order to correct other errors that can also paralyze or delay train traffic. We have received some suggestions on how we can solve this, today, in the proposal for the NTP, which we will then debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1620	Finally, I would like to thank all the representatives who have engaged and contributed, for their commitment to an important matter. It was said by Hallgeir Langeland that there was a kind of atoning spirit in the assembly. Yes, there is no line of confrontation on the part of the interpellant either, because I think there are changing governments and large-scale groups who are responsible for the follow-up to social security. I guess neither of us can fight for the chest and say that we've done a good job in the area. There came up some good ideas along the way, as it always does in interpellation debates. I agree with what Mr Sortevik said, and which was continued by Mr Trond Helleland, that when NTPs are presented, a slightly wider presentation of social security in the transport sector must be made. And I want to hold on to something that I think is very important, and as several of the other representatives stressed, namely the economy of social security. With a tight budget for the establishment, it shall be a significant commitment to prioritizing money to secure a coal-fired location of cables, when one has difficult online challenges, as the Railway Agency has. I continue to insist that social security needs to be given a higher priority when adding the budgets to the different levels. We're going to get a social security message, and I noticed that the Minister for Transport was pleased with the involvement of the department in that communication. I look forward to having a constructive debate on social security also in the field of transport, when we get that message to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1629	The debate in Stortinget today shows that talking about these questions can bring us forward. It can bring up good recordings and good thoughts about the further process. What has been said about NTP and this theme, is something I'm going to put on my mind. I am also summed up in the call in relation to the local and regional hearing that is going on - it is clear that it is also important that these questions are addressed in that process. However, the draft we have received from the trade unions and Avinor today obviously opens up that this can be made a larger issue in the national transport plan than it is now. There will also be a balance in relation to the social security message to be provided, where one will place the different recordings and feedback from the Storing on what is now being done, and we will facilitate the Storing to debate this important topic further. I will do what I can to ensure that the transport sector, as an important sector in terms of ensuring critical infrastructure, will have its legitimate place both in the social security message and, of course, in the national transport plan. There were not so many direct questions to the Council of State in the articles that have been. I just want to thank you for an interesting debate, and have noted what has come of good points, and there were quite as many, as I'm going to take with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1636	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1649	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1658	] This proposal by the representatives of Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and Bård Hoksrud is a proposal for the creation of a state-owned road company to facilitate the rapid development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network based on state funding. [[Rapporteur: Mr van den Broek]] The Committee rejects this proposal on the grounds that the State Road Administration has developed roads as one of its main tasks. The majority point out that different models of debt financing for projects do not change the real nature of expenditure or its impact on the economy. I believe that the majority, consisting of the members of the government parties, will explain their further arguments, and that the other parties in the committee, as well as the proposers, will also explain their views. The left is on a note with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party where we encourage the Government to use the OPS mechanism, both on the basis of the fact that faster implementation of projects has been demonstrated and on the basis of the positive evaluation of the scheme. The left, together with those parties, also calls for the promise of the Soria Moria Declaration to investigate a project funding scheme. I expect - and encourage - that the Minister for Transport will come back to his post here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1667	The progress party has previously launched a private road company in the media, and the most positive thing I can say about the Progress Party's proposal here today is that it is good that it is not only being promoted in the media, but also in the storeroom. So it's like we already have the State Road Service, which has road development as one of its most important tasks. And the state authorities are doing a good job, which the proposers do not doubt either. We simply don't need a private road company. I may agree with the proposers that we must invest in road development in our country. Of course, the Labour Party and I want to make greater efforts in transport in general, and my better infrastructure makes our society more efficient. We strongly want to get coherent and far-reaching expansions, and are working to find good ways to solve this. But no matter how many finurable funding solutions and organisational models the Progress Party is promoting, what gives the best transport is increasing promises. And as we know, our government has just increased the permissions. It's already known that the Progress Party has no loyalty to the rule of action, and we didn't need this proposal to confirm it again. Another thing is that constant repetitions of this lack of respect for the rule of action may not make it easier for the Progress Party to achieve a good dialogue with the Right Dream Party. But this doesn't bother me. We have a variety of funding methods for road development in Norway, various forms of toll financing, local contributions and advance payments. These funding methods make important contributions to the development of the road network. The Labour Party and myself are at the same time concerned that the railways and maritime transport have a significant competitive disadvantage of your infrastructure cannot be financed in the same way as road. Obviously, it is also the case that launches project funding in the submission to NTP that we received earlier today. But again, the most important thing to get road development is to allow money over the state budget - so simple and so difficult. Right is eager to use Public Private Cooperation and find the opportunity to mention it in the comments on this issue. We recently received an evaluation report on OPS. The report says, among other things: it is difficult to say whether OPS is more expensive or cheaper than normal road development. Road development has progressed rapidly in the OPS project, and it is important for road users, who get new and safer roads in the past. But the report also says that it is possible to speed up road development without OPS. The simplest ‘model’ is that Stortinget allows enough money to build the large projects in a coherent and efficient way. Then it is clear that professional investors are good at demanding that the project be run as efficiently as possible. But on the other hand, we have to pay these investors for 20 years to come, and a substantial part of the investment budget will go to cover the final OPS project for many years to come. Once again, this is primarily about the will - and ability - to put the money on the table. OPS is an exciting part of the debate on NTP and future infrastructure financing. The creation of a private road haulage company should not be an important part of this debate. The proposal also focuses unilaterally on the development of the road network between and around the major cities. This part of the Progress Party's proposal is to be remembered when we're in the district and meet people. I don't need to tell you about that side of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1686	It was a cruel dogmatic ointment, not unexpected. But we live well with that. The three representatives of the Progress Party on the Transport Committee have tabled this proposal for a representative. We repeat the proposal in the vote, which we have a proposal for, and I will deal with both proposals. The previous representative, from the Workers' Party, concludes that there is money on the government budget as the solution. "That simple and so difficult" is what he says. It's obvious that it's very difficult. Earlier today, we have taken on board the imposed framework of the trade unions to the new national transport plan, and there is very little to rejoice about, on the contrary, much to be troubled over. In addition to the dogmatic tool, by increasing the framework of the state budget, where road development is still seen as a cost, we can look forward to more bomb taxes and strong driving restrictions. The Progress Party believes that several things need to be done at the same time in order to give Norway the roadway for the next 10-15 years necessary to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian mainland economy. It's no use saving yourself to find, especially when you're richer than most. The paradoxical situation in Norway is that wealth continues to increase, albeit with a small drop now in these stockpile times. In 17 days, we have lost 40 billion kroner -- money we could use to recover about the entire road maintenance lag in Norway. It's to the most extent a thought to carry on. In the view of the Progress Party, we must have new financial instruments to provide a necessary road map. We must have more new instruments; we must have more tools in the box for the Minister of Transport. In the context of this proposal, we have pointed out two such instruments in the vote. The main proposal is a proposal for a public road transport company to receive long-term government loans, for example: 40 years. So what do we get? We are just getting a distinction between investment from spending and cash in annual government budgets - one of the major obstacles to road construction being treated wisely nationally. Appropriations for the annual operation of loans may be made available to government budgets, in order to use the dogmatic solution of the previous speaker, but through government loans the road company can secure clear, long-term and hence predictable financing. The uncertainty about the financing of large projects is gone, and the framework can be dramatically increased - only 1/40 to be covered in each year's current state budget. We also achieve more. We can expand large, really large projects, we can get corridor expansion. So far, we've only been able to dream about such big projects. Once they are financed, so will the large, the really large, international construction companies. Then the price level will be lower and the pace will be faster. The Ministry's comments are predictablely negative. We have referred in the vote to opinions related to the rule of action, where both the majority and an overall committee point out that strengthening the growth capacity of the economy is important. That is what we believe our proposal will do. The second proposal, which has been made during the procedure and which is in the procedure, is a proposal to facilitate the establishment of regional road transport companies. This government has cancelled its own instrument to ensure the extension, clarification and long-term financing of infrastructure, namely project financing. Now we see that the trade unions are bringing it back into the NTP draft that has arrived today, but the government has so far rejected it. So the remaining tool is toll money. The answer we have received to questions to the Council of State in the past is that one is positive to local initiatives. There was an example from the municipality of Nord-Odal, where it states in the reply that ‘the financing of the action must be carried out within the foreseeable financial framework and without a separate State grant’. We believe that the establishment of regional road companies where the owners/interestants can use several different instruments to use the necessary loans to advance road construction is an alternative with regard to those who want to take real local initiatives and pay to get in line, but without setting up a toll station, for tolls and tolls is a very expensive system. Time doesn't allow anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1712	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1715	The Progress Party shall be commended for its strong commitment to speeding up infrastructure development across the country, and the Progress Party has come up with many creative proposals. The progress party has the same strong commitment in a number of other areas as well, and it's good, but the problem from the Christian People's Party's point of view is that the calculation ultimately does not go up within the framework of the rest of the Storting. As the rapporteur has already explained, the proposal addresses a number of key and comprehensive themes and areas covered by the framework conditions for road development in Norway. The main thrust of the proposal is the creation of a state road carrier to facilitate the rapid development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network based on state funding. Firstly, it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that we already have the State Road Service today, which is responsible for the development of roads as its main task. We do not believe that a clean reorganization to a state road company will have any effect on the efficiency of road development. Secondly, the development shall take place exclusively through State resources. This is only the Advance Party as a forerunner in the Stortinget today. Local creativity and good initiatives for interoperability between road procurement and state funding have provided the basis for the realisation of many very good road projects that would otherwise not be prioritised. All such cooperative projects have been voted against by the Progress Party in Stortinget, and such projects will also not be realised through the road company proposed by the Progress Party. It is also surprising that the Progress Party will now give priority to road development between the major cities and make it a major task for the new road company. The Christian People's Party will make use of the whole country, and do not recognize itself in such thinking. Nor is the proposal in line with the planned administrative reform that the Christian People's Party has fought for. If the Government follows the recommendation of the Stortinget, significant parts of today’s national road network will be transferred from the State to the regional level of administration. For these reasons, the Christian People's Party will vote against the proposal. Having said that, we agree with the Progress Party that we need to look for new forms of funding that can speed up the realisation of new projects and ensure a coherent development of large projects. We had very good experience with OPS in the previous government period. It also shows the evaluation of the projects implemented. Here, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the red-greens have a challenge in putting ideology aside and taking advantage of the good experience of the previous government. I hope it will show up when the National Transport Plan is presented by the Government in a year's time. Furthermore, we are still waiting for the implementation of the Soria Moria declaration - project funding was to be investigated. We have been briefed that at least at this stage it is not possible to implement. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is an excellent proposal that we should have been able to implement. But now, unfortunately, it looks like it's boiling away in the cabbage. Both OPS and project funding can be very well implemented with the current organisation of the State Road Service. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the compromise between the Advance Party and the rest of the opposition lies here. Let's fight together for new funding solutions instead of coming up with creative reorganisations that are not close to having support in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1738	In this case, the question is whether to set up a state road transport company based on state funding. It is such that the Centre Party is working in a targeted way to develop good, safe roads and also to improve the maintenance of the road network. One registers here that the proposer is searching for new solutions. Looking for answers to challenges can be a positive exercise. Often, innovation can be the way to go. At other times, the best solution is to keep your models. The centre party is of the opinion that establishing a state road carrier is not a prudent solution to challenges in the road sector. Over a very long period of time, and under changing governments, there has been a great lag in both maintenance/operation and investment in the transport sector. This government has taken hold of and done something about it. Road sector frameworks have significantly increased since the government change in 2005. Frame to NTP has been met for the first time. This is important in order to achieve a good development in the country before as well as economic development and busteting. Prioritisation of transport is an investment - in housing, in establishment, in well-being and security for the inhabitants of the country. There are several reasons why the Centre Party does not see the establishment of this road carrier as prudent. Today, the state road service is responsible for the development and maintenance of roads as its most important tasks. As one has been in, they do it in a good way. It is also the case that the submission of management reform implies that the regional level of management will be given responsibility for significant parts of the national road network. It is also the case that the creation of a state-owned road haulage company does not provide an automatic means of increasing the rights of transport. There might be more reason to ask if it will not require more resources for organisation, administration and change, and so could lead to a reduction in resources for the central tasks such as road construction and road maintenance. I note that the proposer, the Progress Party, also submitted to create a state road haulage company goes on. I note that the Progress Party in this matter also makes a priority when it comes to localisation of investment projects. It is a priority for a road carrier to start the development of the name between the major cities and of efficient transport solutions around the same cities. The central party will have a democratic process through NTP management before we do these priorities. NTP's proposal to NTP was public today. Now the political work is about to begin. This work shall be carried out locally, regionally and nationally. A theme that will look at the different funding arrangements. The centre party will take part in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1755	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 22 for 2007-2008, ‘establishing a state road carrier to facilitate the rapid development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network based on state funding’ is closely related to the proposal for a representative. 27, from the same representatives. The only difference is that this proposal is about rail, while this is about road. Proposal No. 22 deals with comprehensive themes such as the relationship between a State body for the maintenance and development of the road network, the financing of such an activity and, last but not least, the prioritisation of the area within the road sector in which it is to be invested. I note that the opposition party in its comments concentrates mainly on one theme, namely how such activity can be financed. The other parts of the proposal are well discussed in the comments of these parties. Furthermore, I have noticed that a joint committee indicates that the state road service has road construction as an important task, and that different funding methods for such activity do not change the real effects of the economy. This is an important point in today's situation, where the pressure in the Norwegian economy is high. There is a clear link between space within the total economy and labour supply for public consumption growth and real investment and the like in the private sector. The debate on the proposal is drawing up, leading nowhere but to the risk of increased inflation and imbalances in the economy if we do not take this into account. In recent times, we have observed and experienced a great increase in prices when it comes to both rail and road. This challenge will not change if we buy the services for hire instead of cash. I'm not going to spend a lot of time now on how the Government, in cooperation with my agencies, is putting up work to meet the price increase in the construction market, but the Progress Party's comment on looking at the potential for larger enterprise offers is one of the many options that are being assessed. In my opinion, the comments from the opposition are a clear expression of an under-estimation of the Stortinge’s ability to make sensible policy choices and priorities. It is, therefore, with pleasure that I note that the majority emphasise that the State Road Administration should give priority to its tasks primarily by means of state budget concessions. The proposal for a national transport plan from the transport modes, which was presented today, provides a technical basis for proposing how they intend to make these concessions available. Both OPS and other forms of project financing are mentioned. I look forward to working with it further in the NTP context. However, I would like to remind you that only the three OPS projects launched in the road sector require annual payments of 600 million. kr when all are completed. Those who had to believe that such a sum would not be marked when the budget was to be settled must trust it again. When it comes to the comment from the opposition that they are looking forward to a project funding bill being submitted to the Stortinget, I will refer to my letter dated 6 December 2007, where I briefed that such a review was given in the 2007 Yellow Book. I understand the good intentions of this proposal, but if the idea of establishing different loan arrangements is to ensure the implementation of investments that otherwise do not reach the priorities, it is to conceal the realities and avoid an assessment of the impact of the measure on the total economy. In Sweden, as referred to in a comment from the Progress Party, this has been resolved by the fact that the National Debt Office's net lending to investments, which takes place within a tight framework, is taken into account when measuring fiscal rigour. The Ministry, as the Committee is aware, has carried out an evaluation of the experience gained with the above-mentioned OPS projects. Findings that were made are not surprising. In its further work, the government will focus on how to take the positive effects into account in terms of shorter construction time. This, of course, will include us in the NTP work that is now starting too fully from the Government's side. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the majority in the Committee would like the State Road Service to continue to be responsible for the development and maintenance of the state road network in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1774	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1777	Two things: I noticed a visit to Sweden. It is such that the Statistical Central Bureau, which has assessed the impact of the Advance Party's 2008 alternative budget, points out that when our option does not have price-driven effect and reduces interest rates, it is among others. because we spend a lot of money on investment and not on expenditure. So there's a difference in the impact on domestic -- even when you want a tight economy -- if you spend money on spending or investing. So to proposal No. 22, and now I ask concretely: is there anything to prevent a local initiative from using a system of local, regional road transport companies, if you provide funding yourself, so that it actually appears today as an alternative to toll financing, i.e. that you have a different local funding in a local initiative to speed up road development in a specific area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1785	We already have different spice layers where one has local resources in road projects. We have e.g. a company that has the ability to set aside 40 million. to consult in connection with an extension project on the way to Stortinget, i.e. the case of Kvivsvägen. So it's not new that a local capital is put into consultation. The fact that a local company, if any, should have a project that is not toll-funded, I believe that it will be an innovation, and that must of course be reviewed. Governments will not turn their thumbs down on such a proposal. I'll seriously consider it if local proposals come up. I know that one, for example. in Rogaland discusses that kind of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1792	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1807	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1815	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the launch of an investigation into the design and implementation of an Internet-based service portal with the aim of providing an overview and a basis for comparison between the offers, in order to make it more possible to choose the best offer for individual children/individuals to be placed outside the home, to improve the quality of the overall offer and to contribute to full equal treatment between public and private actors.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1838	In Case No: 2-6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1846	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a State Road Company, State Road SF, the main objective of which is to facilitate the development and maintenance of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly national road network based on state funding. The government is asking for the government to assume that the company will receive long-term low-interest government loans for its projects and that the company's expenditure on interest and rebates will be covered by the annual government budget. The Government asks that the company first develop an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network between the major cities and efficient transport solutions around the same cities.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement as soon as possible the necessary measures and clarifications that allow local initiatives to complement state road allocation to be organised through regional road companies with their own funding and without the use of tolls.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17.ana.ud1715e1918	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
