ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 4th plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to give Prime Minister Jüri Ratas an inquiry into the reforms of government. Reforming government was one of the priorities of the previous government led by Taavi Rõivas. As a result of several reforms launched, the Estonian public sector had to become more efficient, flexible and innovative. Business-citizen communication with the country was to become more comfortable, with a reduction in administrative burdens, the number of public earners and bureaucracy. They were all right goals. Unfortunately, reforms of government do not fall within the priorities of the new government. The administrative reform initiated by the previous government will be brought to an end, but there is uncertainty about other structural reforms. The 100-day government programme and coalition agreement do not contain a clear vision or a concrete list of reforms that the new government would like to implement. But if there is no plan, it will be very difficult to carry out the tasks successfully. At the same time, the formation of the Riigikogu has a problem committee on state reform, whose action may prove unimaginable if the ruling power union lacks concrete ambition and political will to renew state governance. In this regard, we are asking a number of questions. What is the Government's plan of action to reform government? Who is responsible for carrying out reforms in the Government of the Republic? Is and how the Government of the Republic intends to reduce the number of state-paid workers, which would offset the changes caused by the reduction in the number of taxpayers and the ageing population? How will the proposals for an audit of government governance during the previous government continue to be implemented? These proposals concern a wide range of tasks. We are discussing an inquiry today, a number of members of the Reform Party Group have signed up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U3	Honourable Riigikogu, our associates wouldn't come to this remote if they had nothing to say. Let's hear them! Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U4	Mr. Chairman! I am sincerely pleased that you drew the attention of our colleagues to what I want to say, because it really concerns all residents of Estonia and, of course, visitors. But it is especially about people living in the great islands. This question is intended for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mrs Samson, and it is precisely the people living on the islands that are concerned. We are talking about the possibility of buying a discount ticket for yourself and for the car. This is an extreme step that I am taking here today, because I do not consider it normal that such questions can only be answered by questioning. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas here confirmed in his speech as a candidate for Prime Minister that politics will change and everything will be open. I must admit that I have tried at least twice, through the ministerial adviser, to get answers to the questions we are asking in writing today, but unfortunately I have not received any answers. As a result, I exercise the right provided for in § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures and hand over the following questions. 14 members of the Reform Party Group have signed the inquiry. Why is the regulation granting a permanent resident benefit applied more negatively to the customer than before 1 October 2016? Do you consider that the granting of the advantage in this way through the restrictions is purposeful? On how many occasions have possible misuses been identified as a reason for a change in the interpretation of one regulation? How is this misuse expressed, and how much has it been statistically reported? During the new service provider, how many passengers and vehicles have been serviced between the Estonian islands and the mainland? How many of them were affected by the benefit of the permanent resident? And the last question: when will the new ticket system be made more user-friendly for islanders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U6	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am honoured to present the referral of seven members of the Free Party Group to the honourable Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo. Namely, the Enterprise Estonia Foundation, which has certainly been set up to meet very good goals, to develop Estonian business and export capabilities, has been consistently highlighted in recent times with negative or conservative news, which raises a lot of questions. We had nothing left but to ask the Minister these questions. Once again, there have been years of underperformance in the search for an Estonian character, brand, slogan or whatever, injustice in solving the Ermaa case, which is particularly damaging to entrepreneurs who have received much smaller subsidies and who have had to submit detailed reports on the use of money, and finally internal money issues that culminated in so-called flower watering money, that is one of the most bizarre news. We have a question of what role the EAS Council will play in such matters and what action will be taken to put an end to substitution activities, decisions that offend the sense of justice and improper use of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U7	On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U8	Mr. Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law on population register and fifthly, the draft law amending the law on security authorities and other laws. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws; seventhly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Aliens Act and eighthly, the draft law amending the Competition Act and related amendments to other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the last three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U9	Dear Riigikogu, I have adopted eight drafts and three inquiries. We will continue to deal with these documents in accordance with the procedures laid down in the domestic and operational procedures. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 4th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U10	The first question to be made by members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru and Külmiki Kübarsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U11	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! This question has, of course, been made by Andres Ammas, the elected representative of Läänemaa. Unfortunately, he is not here today, and so I am honored to introduce this question. In fact, the Free Party has presented a series of enquiries concerning the perils, illogical mergers and illogical name choices associated with the administrative reform. The current question to be answered by the honourable regional minister is the first in this series and perhaps the most drastic question is how the administrative reform will result in changes in the boundaries of the counties. They change in such a way that the smallest county in continental Estonia remains smaller and the largest county in Pärnumaa becomes even bigger. This solution seems illogical if we get a little closer to the historical identity and earlier membership of these regions. The territory of Lihula and Hanila rural municipalities has always been part of Läänemaa, and now these municipalities will belong to Pärnumaa. On the contrary, Varbla is now owned by Pärnumaa and part of Koonga has been in Läänemaa in its time. The consequences of all of this are very diverse, including the nature of the electoral districts of the Riigikogu. One of the smallest circuits loses significantly in size. As a result, we have a whole series of questions that we want to know from the representative of the Government of the Republic. On what basis does the government decide to change the boundaries of the counties? What role does historical identity play in making this decision? When will the government decide the future of rural governments at all, and what will be the solution? How does the Government of the Republic take into account the recommendations of the House Name Board regarding the names of the new municipalities, as the choice of the name of the municipality joining the borders of more than two counties is not, in our opinion, the most successful, or very well-founded from the point of view of history? We ask about its compatibility with the principles of choosing a new name on the administrative reform website. Finally, what I marked earlier, that is, the question of electoral circles in the election of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U12	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U13	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioner! I also welcome the gentleman I have chosen from Läänemaa, who is not present today, and thank him for his meaningful questioning. I'll get right back to the questions. 'From what point of view will the Government of the Republic make decisions to change the boundaries of the counties? What role does historical identity play in making such decisions? To what extent is the proportionality principle of the existing regional administrative arrangements to be taken into account? ' I believe that voluntary accession was one of the main foundations of the first phase of the administrative reform. In the case of voluntary mergers, the local authorities were subject to a condition of 5000 inhabitants. This was the only objective the local authorities tried to achieve. During the negotiations, there were many issues that the merging local authorities had to resolve: the question of the new local authority centre, the question of the name, and one problem certainly was regional membership. There were quite a few local authorities where the merger took place across the county border. However, a decision had to be made whether to move in one direction or another. On this issue, we are dealing with four local governments that have joined one major municipality. And the decision of these four municipalities was to become part of Pärnu County. Probably the life of this decision was the result of people moving more towards Pärnu. Apparently, the leaders who made this decision were well aware of the situation, and they also relied on the public survey that was carried out before the agreement was approved. Only then did they make their final decision. The government, however, was guided by the will of local governments to be part of Pärnu County. I go to the second question: 'What role do the counties play in the future administrative division of Estonia? " Indeed, the Government of the Republic has decided to abolish the governments of the country. This process is being prepared, due on 1 January 2018. But administratively, the county remains a county. Within the county borders, people are served, public services are offered, and this list of services is quite long. Despite the fact that the service process is often based on larger areas, where Estonia is divided into four regions, there are still a lot of services offered on a county basis. And on a county-based basis, the state will continue to provide services in the future. Question 3: "When will the government decide on the future of rural governments? What structures and how will the functions of rural governments be distributed to date when rural governments are abolished? " As I mentioned, at the meeting of the cabinet on January 12, the government decided to start reorganizing the rural governments. The deadline for their abolition shall be 1 January 2018. The precise plan is being drawn up, it will certainly be introduced in the office and then in the public domain in the coming weeks. It's due March 2nd. As far as the division of functions and roles is concerned, the principle is that the services provided to residents so far by the rural governments are transferred to local authorities, and those related to development plans and development activities, as well as to supervision, are transferred to the national level and distributed between ministries according to current plans. The fourth question is how the Government of the Republic takes into account the recommendations of the House Name Council regarding the names of the new municipalities. The answer is that the Government of the Republic took into account the recommendations of the House Name Council and took part in the proposals. Namely, the local naming council made a negative decision on the seven rural municipalities, i.e. it did not approve the name chosen by the municipality. All seven proposals on the first occasion were rejected by the Government of the Republic. Local authorities, in turn, made a negative decision on the decision of the Government of the Republic, i.e. they wanted to stay with their chosen names. At its meeting on 31 January, the Government of the Republic listened to the opinion and proposal of the House Name Council and assigned the names of the five local governments to the name council. In two cases, the Government of the Republic maintained the view that the names of both new parishes could remain the names they proposed themselves. In more detail, the name of the municipalities of Hiiumaa and Mulgi was confirmed, and the new names were Rõuge, Kehtna, Haljala, Toila and Võru. The fifth question: 'How do you think the principles of choosing a new name on the website of the Ministry of Finance's administrative reform have been taken into account when choosing the name of the western beach? What effect does this have on the identity of Lihula, Mihkli, and other historical church parishes? " Yes, the West Coast issue was one of the topics discussed in the House Names Council. The council offered the new parish to be named Lihula parish, which was their first choice. At the same time, the Council did not consider the name of the West Coast inappropriate. The council thought the name of the western beach would be. Of course, historical parish names don't go away. Mikkli and Lihula parish names will continue to be on the map of Estonia; they will remain official town names. And other parish names such as Karuse, Varbla and Hanila remain on the map of Estonia and highlight the historical identity. Once again, the Government of the Republic wanted to take the utmost account of the desire of the local government to choose the name of the new municipality itself, and there was no reason to reject that name in the particular situation, since neither did the Council of Names directly oppose that name. Question 6: 'What effect does the western county collapse have on the electoral circles established in the Riigikogu elections, and have you discussed the changes that this entails with the Election Committee of the Republic? 'The changes have been discussed with the Republic Election Commission, the Republic Election Commission is aware of the situation. In all likelihood, the weakening of western county will lead to a decrease in the representation of western county in the Riigikogu. Is there anything you can do about it? I'm sure it's possible, but it's out of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. I guess that's the answer to all six questions. I would also like to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U14	Questions for the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U15	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. I've been following the work of Valga County Council. They are very careful and want all the decisions that councils and the people make on the subject of accession to be very clear. But in Lihula and Hanila, for example, the public survey is based on the so-called cluster question. People were not allowed to answer the question whether they wanted to join Pärnu County or whether the name could come from the West Coast. Why hasn't the Western County Government stood by asking the people of Lihula, for example, if you want to join Pärnumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U16	Thank you. In general, I'm a little critical of the form of questioning. There have been examples of places where the people have expressed a negative attitude towards accession, but there has not been one in these four municipalities. However, in some parts of the world, although some people did not support the merger at all, the councils still decided on the merger. And if I'm not mistaken, there are examples to the contrary. In other words, the results of the survey have been more informative and have given the general direction to join and whether they want to join. The surveys have ultimately played an informative role, and very often they have not imposed a final decision. As regards the county to which the new municipality must belong, the question arises as to whether, if discussed and decided differently, the two municipalities of Pärnu County should also have moved to another county. The inhabitants of the two municipalities would have been dissatisfied and expressed this. But in my dealings with the mayors, I sensed that the decision made expressed the wish of the people. In the case of Lihula, for example, there is still more movement towards the city of Pärnu. Of course, I understand that the problem is the territory, the size of the county, the size of the population, but ultimately, at the stage of voluntary accession, local authorities were given free rein. I am simply afraid that if there were any other decisions made or pressured by the local government leaders, then probably no accession would have taken place. The clear desire of the local governments of Pärnu County was to stay in Pärnu County and if a different decision had been made, this would have prevented voluntary accession.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U17	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U18	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you will continue with the administrative reform, and I am pleased that you also respect this principle, that the municipalities have had a very broad autonomy to make their own decisions in which direction and to whom to join and, among other things, to choose their own regional affiliation. I think that this issue has been overstated at all. Pärnu County is still part of the Republic of Estonia, so there is no tragedy. However, I do not understand why the government did not take more account of the names of the municipalities. This principle and the argument of choice have so far been somewhat unclear to me. Could you please specify how the seven municipalities were taken into account in some cases and not in others? In my opinion, the municipalities could have been more trusted on this issue too, all the more so as they were also asked for further explanations and arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U19	Thank you for your question. Really, a very important question. For my part, I assure you that from the ministry we have proposed to the government that all seven names be confirmed as requested by the local authorities. Of course, as a proposal, the government will make a final decision by consensus. Some defended the position of the local naming council, while on the other side there were people who thought they could stick to the names of local governments. Well, that's a lot of sense, isn't it? One interesting example was the attempt to create a new place name, Kehtnakandi, as a result of the merger. The municipalities of Kehtna and Järvakandi joined and since they could not agree on their name, they proposed Kehtnakandi. Some members of the government felt that it was not credible and ridiculed the whole process, and it was therefore decided to change the name. In the case of Hiiumaa and Mulgi rural municipalities, the names proposed by the local government were left. These names were also carefully considered and it was found that the arguments put forward by the municipalities were sufficient to maintain these names. It was also argued that the name 'Mulgi parish' was not appropriate because it was located in only one part of Mulgimaa, but in the end it was decided that Mulgi parish could be. At the same time, Lahemaa is not only located in Lahemaa territory, but since the neighbors protested, it was decided that the name could be changed. For each name, arguments were considered and then decided in one direction or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U20	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, When I introduced the inquiry, I said that with this movement, Läänemaa will lose 15% of the population and 25% of its surface area. If the movement were in another direction, i.e. Varbla and Koonga would go under Läänemaa, only 2.3% of the population in Pärnumaa would lose something per cent of the area. So there's some kind of disproportion here. But that's my question. All this crap has come from the 5,000 criteria that are very, very difficult to get together in the emptying countryside. The Free Party submitted a draft so that the Government of the Republic can make exceptions easier. There are also municipalities that have not taken merger decisions in such a way that the criterion of 5000 inhabitants is met. But permission for an exception is very difficult to obtain. Do you support our bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U22	Thank you for your question. I say that this criterion is certainly a good one. I'm protecting it because it's very laconic and understandable. The more criteria there would be, the more difficult it would be to achieve the result, i.e. to carry out the merger. Granting an exception is really quite difficult, but it is still enshrined in the law. This is provided for by law and it is perfectly possible to grant an exception to the deliberate decision of the Government of the Republic. This means that there is no need to lay down in the law specific conditions under which a derogation from the 5000-person criterion may be granted. There must be a motivated decision. First of all, everyone is invited to join to reach this 5000. If this has not been achieved, the municipality has the right to justify why it considers it necessary to grant an exemption. If the request is properly motivated, the government has full authority to take the relevant decision. I think you certainly have a good proposal, but I do not see the need for additional regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U23	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very honourable Minister! In order to balance the position of the Läänemaa representatives, I sincerely welcome this decision. As my good colleague Arto hinted, this gives me the opportunity to overcome this election result in the Riigikogu, otherwise it would be a little complicated. Now that there are more voters, there is a better chance of getting a better result. But that's why, actually, my emotions don't matter. One of the principles of administrative reform has been voluntary and it has still been the agreement and free will of the four municipalities. I think that this must be respected even if the end result may not be liked. And secondly, there is nothing eternal in this world but eternity itself. That's the way it is with the county borders. I certainly cannot agree that political arguments could prelate the democratic decision of the people. I am delighted with this decision, all the more so since I was born in Lihula. I very much hope that, after a while, I can mark my birth as Pärnumaa, Lihula.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U25	Dear questioner, thank you for your opinion. But since I have a chance to talk, I'm going to approach it from the point of view that it doesn't matter where exactly the border runs. It is important that children are born in one place or another. I think that bringing life to Lihula is the purpose of all reform or of all government action. And that's the way it's supposed to be. Whether the municipality is located in Pärnumaa or Läänemaa is certainly an important question, but it is even more important that Lihula develops so that there is life in Lihula, that there is a proper infrastructure, that there are jobs, that there are social services. That must be the goal of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U26	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very nicely here about discussing the name of the new municipality, listening to the recommendations of the House Names Council and taking much into account the wishes of the local people. However, how seriously is the historical and cultural continuity that one or the other place name in Estonia holds firmly in mind? Was this aspect even under consideration?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U28	Thank you for your question. Certainly was, and very seriously considered. Apparently, this would not allow the creation of a new name called Kehtnakandi, which would set a precedent. Of course, we have the historic beautiful place names that we are used to and could continue to use. It would be a great sin to dismantle them. I remember another name that gave me a pretty sharp discussion. We're talking about Rõuge or Haanja. It was a question of what to choose for the name. As the parish of Rõuge was historically larger and the name was better suited to the region, it was in favour of Rõuge. I think the historical dimension determined much for this final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U29	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U30	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. In Setumaa, a survey was conducted on these merger matters. It is known that as soon as the poll was announced, over 40 people were registered in Meremägi municipality within a few days. The question is this: How does the government consider this circus when making decisions? I mean, it's a fool's game, if in a few days, people are gonna be checked in so much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U31	Thank you for your question. The seamount records must have been of a malicious background, and they certainly wanted to influence the decision. But if you take down 40 votes in Setumaa from one side or the other, it wouldn't have affected the outcome. A clear signal emerged from the Setumaan survey: the inhabitants of Setomaa want to create a rural municipality, at least most of them. I think the emergence of the Setomaa rural municipality is entirely justified and the Ministry is proposing this to the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U32	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U33	Thank you. Good Mikhail! In the context of Läänemaa, would you comment on how you feel about changing the county borders in any way affecting the identity and future of our communities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U34	I very much agree with one of your fellow Members that the question of borders is somewhat overstated. This is especially over-emphasis given to people's communication and life at all. Regardless of where the county border runs, people continue to communicate with each other, they do their business exactly as they have done before. Yes, perhaps the conduct of the Olympics within the county boundaries or the organisation of student sports competitions will change to some extent. But I think that, in general, people still continue to communicate with each other, and when people have the sense of identity and the will to go together and do things together, I don't think that changing borders is an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U35	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The administrative reform plan has been written to ensure the proportionality of the county administration, better functioning of the public authorities, etc. The municipality's agreement on the Accession Treaty is merely a recommendation for the government. What could be the arguments or circumstances that would force the government to protest against voluntary accession?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U37	I don't know how to bring these things out. I see no reason to object to a voluntary merger. On the contrary, I think that the government must support voluntary accession. There is currently only one region whose voluntary desire to join is unconfirmed. This is Rapla Parish. This is related to the fact that three rural municipalities have joined and have no common borders. These are rather formal obstacles, not a desire to prevent the process. To date, all voluntary mergers have been carried out and confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U38	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U39	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I wanted to say to Toomas Kivimägi, who left the hall, that yes, it is very easy to justify all decisions that have not turned out best, by the fact that, see, local councils have had free will. In my opinion, this free will has been around the same as a prisoner's free will not to follow the orders of a prison guard. This reform has still been carried out using the whip and carrot method. The number of inhabitants has been 5,000, which must be met. Nor would this cross-border merger of two counties in that area have come if this requirement had not been very rigid and, secondly, if, for certain reasons, the merger of Läänemaa had not failed into one municipality, which would probably have been more reasonable than the solution that has now been obtained. But I would use that time for this toponymous reflection. In fact, the county of Läänemaa, which is now really staggering with the loss of its territory, is the only county in Estonia whose name comes directly from the weather and is so indigenous that it is really very old. Yes, indeed, later Virumaa has been divided into Ida-Viru and Lääne-Virumaa, it is also fixed. Here in Tallinn we have a part of the city that we call North-Tallinn, although Pelgutown, Kalamaja and Kopli are more understandable place names. What is happening now during these renamings and administrative reform? What is happening is that local governments, called local governments, are formed by the "free will" along the chain of arms. First of all, it shows, in my opinion, the lack of wisdom in naming, but still also that in itself the boundaries are somehow drawn in such a way that the emerging entities do not have a clear historical name. That's when they'll be looking for what I'm north of or which I'm west of. And strange things come out. For example, the municipality of Lääne-Saare was made in Saaremaa. Now that Saaremaa joins into one parish, that new name disappears. I hope that many of the names that we are currently trying to introduce will actually disappear as quickly as the name of the municipality of West Island, which has nothing to do with historical etymology, but that it was located in the west of Saaremaa. At the same time, West Nigula, which will be the largest municipality of Läänemaa, is a historical name. West Island is a new formation. And the West Coast, which is going to be confusingly in Pärnumaa, is still referred to as Läänemaa, is also a new unit. In addition, we are developing, as I understand it, in Northern Pärnumaa and North Sakala. In the meantime, I was talking about the North Coast, and I don't know if it's coming or not, maybe they'll find something better. There has also been talk about West Harju. I also have the question that if, instead of rural governments, we are going to have some sort of quarter of card sectors, do we then divide Estonia into these "regions" by weather maps and cannot offer anything better. It's one of those name problems. Name problems include the fact that the historic Helme parish will somehow be called Tõrva, which is a much later place name in history, and the historical church parish Nissit will be called Saue, which is a small place near Tallinn and has in no way reached the border between Märjamaa and the Cross. So there's a lot of confusion with names, and they make us illogical. But Laozi has once said more than 2,500 years ago that this name is a constant name. And I very much hope that the name-booties that you have allowed to occur here in the reform hazard will remain relatively short-lived in Estonia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U40	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U41	I thought I'd talk to you about a few things. Firstly, with regard to the specific merger of municipalities on the border between Läänemaa and Pärnumaa, there must be respect for the decision made on the ground. This has been considered for a long time, all the local government leaders have been carrying out this process for a long time, people have been spoken to. I can admit that all the leading politicians in Läänemaa, and many others, have opposed the departure of local governments. They have done everything they can to prevent this from happening, to be very patriotic. But the will of the leaders and inhabitants of these parishes is upon us. I think that's the right thing to do. Perhaps this is a sign that, at least in these municipalities, the identity of Läänemaa is not very strong. Something we're worried about disappearing is already gone. Joining in the direction of Pärnumaa seems to be more reasonable and logical for them and more involved in everyday activities. The name issue is very complicated, there are many emotions involved. Quite a number of mergers have been cancelled in the past because the name cannot be agreed in the final phase. There are no good solutions here. However, I would have argued more than the government why some of their proposals are better than a local choice. I have a very deep respect for history. Last year's country supported the issue of a place name book. It's such a decent block with a number of thousands of place names where I'm sure I could find the right options. But if they didn't, they didn't. And I'm convinced that every generation has the right to write a certain amount of history. The agreement on the new name has probably been argued and the subject itself has been thoroughly discussed and thought through. In my opinion, the problem is that for the last month it has been the case that the Minister of Public Administration goes into the office with proposals and in the black room, without any outside glances, without public discussion, there will be hops! a government decision on a name issue that is a very emotional, very sensitive subject. This creates tensions, creating further disputes, possibly litigation. And as far as we can hear, these decisions have been made in government after a relatively superficial and hasty debate. Some ministers have been convinced that the name agreed by the local authorities, which has perhaps been on the table for a year, still does not fit, let us put something else. Such a decision-making process makes me anxious. Is the government's decision on these five names really acceptable to these five municipalities, or does it make some major processes stand? So more public discussion, transparency, so that the government's decisions on names are also understandable! Anyway, the process itself is quite intense. I wish Minister Korb strength that if he goes to the government with some concrete proposals, he would be able to push them through there rather than allow another minister, who does not deal with these issues every day, to decide in an effort to seek consensus. Let us be honest, no minister has enough time to go into the details of another minister. This is particularly true of the new government, which faces a great many topics and new information. Government decisions must be known in advance for a long time and very well argued. But once again: in a particular case, I think that let these municipalities join in the direction of Pärnumaa and make their name choices. It has been their own decision and must be respected. Unfortunately, there would be no better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U42	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U43	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It is good that both the current Minister of Public Administration and the previous Minister of Public Administration were present on the floor. I am concerned, however, that one ideology unites the two of you. Administrative reform is not done in people's minds. It is clear from the questions and your answers that the administrative reform is the sole responsibility of the local government leaders. It makes me very sad. My question had not been raised at all with the intention that the county borders should be set in stone and must not be changed. I wanted to point out why ordinary people are being fooled in the same way as we are in the Riigikogu with various cluster decisions. Fair and ethical would be clear, simple decision-making. In my opinion, the current model of governance does not move our country forward. Rather, it takes us back, and people want to leave because they see that even at the municipal level, the most important people are not people, but the carrots offered to them. Right there in Läänemaa, I have acquaintances who are upset that one of the reasons why people have been forgotten in the course of administrative reform is the same carrots. In fact, two carrots are distributed: one is for the new municipality and the other is for the current local government leaders. Many council members have tried to work at the council with their hearts and souls alongside their work, but no one rewards them in any way. But rather, they are concerned that no representative of their former municipality will remain in the new municipality. I bring the example of Nõva, which is so small in comparison with other municipalities that even if everyone in the municipality voted for one person, it would probably not be able to obtain a mandate in the new municipality. My opinion is that more public polls should be conducted, but I can see that in the eyes of the great communities, this is taboo and their attitude is negative. We need to be more face-to-face with the people. After all, there are so few of us and we must offer people different opportunities to carry out themselves in Estonia, so that they feel that they belong here, that the state and the local government want them to belong to this local government, that their soul is there and that they have a sense of identity. But today we're doing everything in this very hall to break it. This isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U44	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U45	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is that you can't be silent. Since I am a geographer of education and I am involved in administrative reform for a very long time, I am discussing a few things. I support the Minister in a great deal or in most of it, but I will start with the subject at large. We were talking about rural governments, how catastrophic it is that they disappear. But in the current situation, the county governments are no longer really the county administration, they are now the Department of Finance, some time ago they belonged to the Ministry of the Interior. The role that the county governments once played is no longer there. I myself was head of the Regional Development Office in the early 1990s when the rural government was self-governing. Now we're going to call the county parishes, but maybe this isn't the best. That's something to think about. Now the names. The name is not, in fact, something on which ministers can make assessments based on some kind of professionalism. The name has been given to all of us by our mother's milk, but it has come with history. Identity and name are the kind of things we really get when we're born. Sometimes it seems that the name may be logical, but for example Viljandi Municipality is not really a logical name, it is artificially created. After all, parts of Mulgimaa, the parish of Paistu remain in Viljandi, and now Tarvastu will be there. As far as Mulgimaa is concerned, the mulgs have always been out for themselves, and there is a fight for the capital, whether it comes to Karksi or Abja. But it's a good thing that that name is still there, it might give you a chance to join South Mulgimaa, or Tõrva, in the future. Being myself from Valgamaa, I know why Tõrva was chosen there in fact precisely because of the defiance that there was also a desire to be called South Mulgian. It wasn't possible, or it wasn't shot, and so Tõrva was chosen. There are other cases like this. With regard to Läänemaa, which has been the subject of a question here today, when you take the birth document of our country, the Manifest for all the rahwasle of Estonia, there is also a separate mention of Läänemaa and Pärnumaa along with the islands. It may be the music of the future: if we are now making one municipality in Saaremaa, is it even worth leaving the county there? That, too, is something that needs to be thought through. Today we are talking about administrative reform. I would like to say that this is not a real name, because we are actually ending the administrative-territorial reform. In essence, the administrative reform is still coming. The budget for next year has once taken away EUR 30 million to restore the share of income tax, and this money will come up in the coming years. Actually, it's a key question. And I also think that the key question here is what we talked about when we were discussing the establishment of a problem committee and what I myself asked about: on the ground, whether it is a county or any municipality, the services of the state must be available. And that's in the very centers where they're now being referred to. It's a key question. I would like to stress one more thing. We have spoken very little in this Chamber, as far as I have heard in six or seven days, about the fact that administrative units are not really just for the provision of services. The municipality is still the key to democracy; it is the closest to the people. To give an example of the number of members of the future council of Saaremaa, we can see that the number of representatives of the people is actually falling by 100 people. This is a huge decline in democracy, and this should also be considered seriously at the next stages of administrative reform. Democracy must be preserved on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U46	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U47	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When Sofia Palaiologos, the niece of the last Byzantine emperor, became the wife of Vassili III, the Grand Prince of Moscow, she asked her husband: "Vassili, are you a self-governor, or are you a ruler by the grace of someone? ', for Vassili regularly visited the Golden Hord for confirmation that he was the Grand Duke of Moscow, that he had the right to rule over Moscow. Hence, he ruled, not by himself, but by the mercy of someone. When we talk about municipalities, we have exactly the same question: is it a municipality or someone else's government? Will people rule their lives on the ground, just as the laws should allow them to do so, or will they be ruled by someone else? And we can see that there is one great mortuary here and we have a rather difficult definition of what is local government and what is not a local government. In any case, we certainly do not have any complete, systematic and unambiguous self-government on the ground. And regrettably, this administrative reform, the municipal reform or whatever the name of the reform is, does not make the picture clearer, but rather confusing. In the context of this question, while being a Westerner himself along the same footsteps, I can say that in these two former areas of Lihula and Hanila, people are not all happy and happy that there has been such a relocation from one county to another. We could, of course, talk more about the history of Läänemaa and the evolution of Läänemaa, from the ancient era to Old Livonia and why not the beginning of the 20th century, but leave these issues aside. The question now is what? The question is very clearly that part of the border of Läänemaa, which had its own centre in Lihula's form, is now shifting away from Pärnumaa to the outskirts of Pärnumaa, and Lihula loses even more importance. What has this administrative reform done to improve? Neither the locals nor the viewers from farther away can understand that. Why did these two villages leave Läänemaa? For subjective reasons: they felt in Läänemaa that less funds were being allocated to them, they were in a state of exclusion. So we could talk in a way about revenge. Maybe it sounds a little too brutal, but that kind of taste is on that decision. This in itself shows that this is not a rational reform, but, in many ways, a transformation of the administrative territorial division that is going along the path of emotional, and simply random. And what can result from this in the long term? This can only lead to a new reform. We have buried, smacked a lot of money, including a lot of corrupt money, otherwise we cannot name the start of administrative reform by paying the municipal managers an annual salary. My former municipality leader receives about EUR 17500. The amount to be paid to the local authorities is EUR 17000,18000. That's corrupt money, comrades! There is no other way to call it. It can be said that volunteers receive a bonus. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U48	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U49	But no matter what name we give this money, whether it's a bonus or a bonus or a credit or a grant, it's a fact that it's corrupt money that buys administrative reform. And the fact is, this money is wasted money. It has not improved the administration of Estonia, the administrative capacity of Estonia or the functioning of the local governments' tax base or local governments; it has all remained more or less the same. The new government's promises to restore the local government's income base are not taken very seriously either. Unfortunately, that is the case. Once again, what will happen in the future? New administrative reform. Perhaps the new government will come again and start honking and drumming and re-engineering. There are again working groups who are paid for it and expert analyses are ordered and some kind of grant money is paid again. Is that reasonable? No, it's not. But this failed reform will lead us to it, and there is a lot of debate about it in this Chamber. But now we're getting to the fruit, so far there were flowers. In the next few years, we will reach even more mature fruits, and then there will be someone next to the Prime Minister or anyone who says yes, we will admit that the administrative reform has failed, now we will make a new one. And the money will be spent, and the hours will be spent. It is spoken of in English as monkey business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U50	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. The Minister would like to add something. Mikhail Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U51	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for expressing your opinions. They were very meaningful, and I will certainly take them into account in my work. But there are a few things I would like to comment on. The main point I want to draw your attention to, or what I want to talk about, is the claim that the local government's income base will not be restored. I want to contradict that statement by one hundred percent! For next year, 30 million has been earmarked for the restoration of the local government's income base, which goes to the restoration of the income tax component and the compensatory fund. In 2019, a further 15 million, or 45 million, will be allocated and by 2020 there will be a total of 55 million, which will have to restore the local government's reduced revenue base in 2009. As far as the claim on a corrupt undertaking is concerned, yes, this measure can be described in different ways. I'd call it a thank you. Local government leaders have worked hard and contributed to the development of local government. Of course, they must have a sense of insurance or a social guarantee. I think the reward is fair to them. There has been a great deal of criticism in society about this, but I think that this money has been earned and cannot be called bribery. I am, of course, defending the actions and plans of another government right now, but I think that's fair to their leaders. The third thing I want to say about is the public survey. I am very sorry that the honourable member of the Riigikogu realized from me that we do not want to conduct public interviews. I am critical of the fact that the public survey did not play a decisive role in this reform. The public survey was conducted, but it remained rather formal. I would, of course, prefer more public polls to serve as a basis for a final decision. If the public survey gives a concrete result, then it must be based on it. However, of course, it is not the case that the number of participants in the survey is low, but the decision still has to be taken, there is no need to engage in substitution activities or to show that we have democracy if it does not actually exist. I'm critical of that, but there's no way I'm gonna be able to hold any interviews. Thank you for a very meaningful discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U52	The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U53	The next question is presented by Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U54	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Minister, thank you very much. Andres Ammas has prepared a joint inquiry by members of the Free Party Group concerning the activities of Riigi Kinnisvara AS in the administration of state real estate. Perhaps one of the motivations was the audit of the National Audit Office on the administration of state property, published on 26 October 2016, but I dare say that the main reason for this inquiry is the concern about the future performance of state property. If we also read the country's real estate strategy from 2007, the main objective is for the state to manage its real estate in a prudent, ecological, sustainable manner. It's all right. However, looking aside from the audit of the National Audit Office, it is clear that this has not been achieved. There are a number of questions in the question. These issues have indeed been borne out by concern, as no analysis-based synergies have been created in the management of this property, even in the areas concerned. There's a lot of free space in one place, it's not in another. Instead of looking at the analysis and using the free space effectively, the state would like to start building something more. One serious problem is the whole activity of the State Real Estate AS. It is a company which, like a company, is intended to make a profit. If now many schools, museums and other institutions that have managed themselves relatively economically so far go to the service of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, they will have to pay more for their maintenance. Our big question is whether the state's real estate management has so far acted as it should and how to proceed from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U55	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. In your questioning, you raised a very important issue and a very important issue. It is very difficult to answer this question unambiguously, but of course we could try to find these answers together. I admit that the questions you have asked are quite difficult to answer, because they require a deeper analysis. But in some places, I've developed an opinion. I'm trying to answer your questions the way I can. I'll start with the introduction. Indeed, I have met the audit of the National Audit Office. I had my own opinion when I started reading this document, but as I read it, I had this feeling that the arrow of criticism was in the wrong direction in society. In society, the state real estate company is accused rather than the property manager and the organisation responsible for the property, but the criticisms of the National Audit Office were directed towards the government. The government's side is precisely because such a situation, as provided for in the strategy, in which all the property of the Estonian state is in one hand, has not been achieved. There are probably shortcomings or disadvantages that could be blamed on the State Real Estate Company, but there is certainly a great deal of indecisiveness on the part of the government or putting such things on a long wave. I'll mention some facts. First of all, a little over 51% of the real estate of the entire country is now under the administration of the State Real Estate Company. As far as real estate policy is concerned, the entire property of the Republic of Estonia covers about 2.2 million square metres, divided between different organisations. By way of derogation, it has been agreed for 550000 square metres that these premises are in the hands of the Ministry of Defence, RMK and constitutional institutions. About 620000 square metres have been transferred to the RKAS and almost 900000 square metres have not been transferred. If you go to the questions, you first ask why the maintenance of the state's real estate through the transfer of assets to the RAAS has not become more sustainable and what we are going to do to improve the situation. I'd say that. The long-term objective or objective of achieving sustainability is a complete set. Currently, for example, the costs incurred by an institution, either a ministry or a building held by the office, are taken into account for the normal costs of heating, electricity, some sort of maintenance, and no one accounts for other costs. If after a certain period of time the building needs to be completely repaired, no one will consider that there are people who serve the building that is internally on the payroll. There are a number of costs that have not been included in this model. The theoretical RKAS model is based on the fact that the building is constantly in order, the cost of maintaining the building is at a certain level. The costs could now be compared for models 1 and 2, but the second model has taken into account this long-term coefficient, i.e. the building does not need repair, the building has been repaired. And if you take into account the costs that are added to it in line, there will be a set of costs that cannot be compared to what is the case with normal use. However, I also agree with the criticism that, on the one hand, it seems strange. If today we have bills for the sum of x and tomorrow's invoice is already double the sum of x, then there's no way to call it a sustainable approach. But this double x sum also includes the reconstruction and renovation of the building. So if we add to this sum of x the amount that comes with the investment later in order to repair this building, it's possible to compare these costs. However, the valuation methodologies are different and therefore it is simply not possible to compare the situations when the building is in the hands of the institution today and in the hands of the RAKAS tomorrow. I'm sure it needs a deeper analysis. However, if you answer your question, of course there is a need to improve processes, to make the budget process more efficient. The feasibility of using the facilities available to the RAKAS should be reviewed. Maybe you could put people together to make more efficient use of the rooms. Such measures can certainly be taken. With all this, I would like to say that I cannot say that today use is more sustainable than tomorrow when the premises are handed over to the RKAS. This is the kind of thing that would probably be easier to prove or show with Excel slides or pictures, with words it's a little hard to describe. You are asking what measures we are planning to ensure that the RAAS is able to provide a service to the State at a reasonable price and quality in order to achieve greater efficiency in real estate costs. The RKAS is by its nature an organisation that announces procurement and seeks work through procurement. I think that, first of all, it is very important to monitor the criteria set or the maintenance requirements on which the price and the one who is able to provide some kind of service depend very much. The other side of the case is definitely the scale of the procurement. If we make too big a deal, we reject those who are also able to provide the service, perhaps smaller companies. However, by fragmentation of procurement, we will achieve a situation where there will be no economies of scale, i.e. there will be no savings due to scale. The real estate market is a very complex market, especially in the areas of administration and maintenance. I think that searching for this optimal size is the key question just what size procurement needs to be carried out in order to achieve an optimal price-quality ratio. Thirdly, you are asking what we are going to do to speed up the pace of the transfer of buildings. This is a very important issue because it is clear that the authorities do not want to deliver buildings easily, i.e. the authorities are doing everything they can to avoid transferring buildings. I think this is a very important aspect, and that is the criticism that could be directed towards the RKAS, because the RKAS has not been able to identify what is their model's advantage compared to the current situation. At the moment, the situation is that a body that uses a house is clear about the cost-benefit mechanism, i.e. it knows how it can afford a resource to clean up the building, whether it receives an investment through the state budget or somewhere else, or whether it can put it together from its own resources. However, it is a little incomprehensible to him how the decision-making process will start through the RKAS, when his building will be cleaned up, when his building will be repaired. I think this is an important challenge for the ICAS to make the process more transparent and clearer. If they offer the head of the institution the opportunity to switch to the administration of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, then the advantages that the manager will gain as a result must also be clear. This work is clearly unfinished and there is no major change here. This makes a very dangerous assessment, i.e. what grade do users give to the RKAS? Satisfaction with the provision of services has unfortunately decreased. This means changing attitudes and the quality of the service provided. Question 4: When are we going to develop and submit a country's real estate strategy to the Government of the Republic for approval, and what objectives should it focus on? Having analysed the real estate strategy, we believe that the goals, objectives and strategy developed today are correct. There is no immediate need to change the strategy. The sustainable use of premises, the use of a minimum resource, the enhancement of resource efficiency are the right things, and we need to move forward and work in the same direction. Rather, it is the measures that are the question of how we will achieve this, which is the key to achieving the objectives. Question 5: "Who and when will determine how much real estate the state needs in order to carry out its tasks over a period of 10 years? How and in what time frame will the need for €500 million in repair be met? ' That's a big question. So far, the policy has moved towards constantly building new houses, i.e. the renovation of houses is quite minimal. Unfortunately, practice shows that building new houses is clearly more useful than renovating old ones. New, modern spaces are provided with the same money and significantly better quality, i.e. the price/quality ratio speaks very often in favour of building new buildings. I think that here, in the same way, the task of all the agencies is to determine the necessity of the premises, their functions and their activities. The most important issue is in the field of education, what happens to the education network and the education system, because it has the most real estate. I think that is the question of the coming years: we need to find out which functions are moving to the local government level, what functions are left to the state and what is the real estate package that the state needs after all. Unfortunately, there is no answer to that at the moment. The last question: 'Do and how much will the state's real estate costs decrease as part of the state reform? " This is also a question that will certainly need an answer in the near future. Real estate costs are directly related to activities carried out by the State. A very important question is also how much the so-called regional aspect comes into play. The plan is to move some of the state institutions out of the capital. Another aspect is the use of rural government buildings. The third aspect is which property is ultimately decided to use. I think we are at a stage where we are only talking about the start of a state reform, or the first steps. It is still early to talk about what is the final result and how much the country needs real estate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U57	Thank you. Time's up. If you didn't say anything, you can do it by answering questions. The first one asks and gives this opportunity to Küllik's Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U58	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I would like to point out before my question that the sixth question was actually missed at all, you have now answered the seventh question. Here's my question. Riigi Kinnisvara AS also holds buildings that are culturally valuable even in the international dimension. Like Patarei Prison. Riigi Kinnisvara AS has owned this property for more than ten years. The consequence is that the building has become virtually unusable and no real estate developer, including Riigi Kinnisvara AS, is interested in this anymore because the investment needs are so high. Why does Riigi Kinnisvara AS allow such a thing to happen that cultural values simply fall apart, and what is the plan for the next year? How many buildings are there that need investment quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U59	Thank you for your question. I would like to go to specific questions, because most of my thoughts I probably said before. Patarei Prison is really a very important object. But here, I'm gonna take down the criticism arrows for the RKAS again. I believe that the situation or state that governs the territory of Patarei Prison is not only responsible for the RKAS, but also for the government as a whole. To date, unfortunately, the government has found no purpose for this building. What happens to this building now is a little hard to say, because so far all the institutions that have been offered the opportunity to move in as a tenant have turned it down. It has been offered to the Academy of Arts and has been offered to serve as a courthouse. Unfortunately, until now, no clear features have been found for this house. If we look at Patarei Prison as a separate object, he's very important. But if we look at the Patarei prison as an object of the state and put schools, hospitals, this same courthouse and the construction of the prison in the same row, then there are clearly several objects ahead of him that need to be restored. For example, the state has taken the view that, above all, it is necessary to restore the City Hall, which is also a valuable object, and for which you are also entitled to criticise why it is in the position it is in. I think in the case of Patarei Prison, the first task is to find the function that this building will be carrying. When we're talking about the reconstruction of the building, we're talking about the size of 60£80 million. This is a very large amount of money that must be found, either now or in the future, from the budget and which will have to be paid up by taxpayers. So, of course, the feasibility of using this money must be assessed very accurately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U60	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said very clearly that not all the darts of criticism can be directed at State Real Estate AS, but some must definitely go towards the government or governments, especially when it comes to the general real estate policy. However, I would also like to hear your clear answer to the question whether the fact that Riigi Kinnisvara AS operates in the form of a company means that in principle it must make a profit, and it must make a profit for the owner, who himself manages the same real estate and should stand up for its use. Does this form of company justify itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U62	Thank you, that is a very correct question. RAKAS makes a profit for the state by collecting money from the state. This is a bit of an absurd situation. This form was once chosen with the aim of excluding public investment from the government sector, i.e. to achieve a situation where the balance of the budget in the case of RKAS loans was considered to be financed by building loans, that they were not included in the loan portfolio of general government. I think it was a good idea, but unfortunately, it didn't work out because this loan burden started to be included in the general loan burden, and the plan basically failed. Personally, I think the chosen form is a little weird, but to say if it's justified or not, I think it's a little early. During this year, the Ministry of Finance plans to carry out an analysis of the legal form and therefore propose whether to stick to the same form, change the form or change any rules of the game or the content of the activity. The company can also operate under different conditions, it may also have a zero return or it may have a completely different situation. The point is that before we make final decisions, things need to be thoroughly analysed and discussed. But I totally agree with your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U63	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U64	Good Chairman! Good minister! I'm sure you're familiar with the scandal of the Arsenal Centre, which has exploded over the last few weeks, which is connected to the RKAS. This is one of the shopping centres for which real estate was bought from the RKAS auction. The scandal has come from the fact that a former influential politician had a hidden involvement there. As your minister, have you taken an interest in this Arsenal story, including whether the sale price was fair, why only one bidder participated, etc.? If you are, what is your position on this sale?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U65	Thank you for your question. I'm sure I've heard about it, and I've met the situation. I've also seen the records of this deal and I've seen the decisions. This case, of course, is completely regrettable. If anyone wants to hide a participation, it will cast a shadow over the whole process. It is particularly embarrassing to have a national organisation drawn into this transaction, which must operate transparently and correctly. In order to highlight all aspects, I have, for my part, asked for a special audit to be carried out on this particular transaction. I also asked for a review of other transactions and for an examination of whether some might suspect that the transaction was illegal or unfavorable to the State. After the special audit has been carried out and I have been familiar with these results, I can also comment more closely. At the moment, I wouldn't make any comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U66	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will continue with the same question, because there will be more cases like this in the future. Last week we read that the Muraste Border Guard complex could be sold through the RKAS. There's 35 hectares of land, buildings, really a very sweet piece of real estate. You yourself commented on taking state institutions out of Tallinn on a TV show this weekend. Similar situations may arise there too. How can we be sure that public property will be sold at a fair price and at a useful price to the State, so that no brokers will be able to earn that property after a while will not be more expensive than the sale price? Is RKAS the most appropriate intermediary? How do you intend to ensure that things like those that have happened to Arsenal will not happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U68	Thank you for your question. Such a situation really must be avoided at all costs. I think that the special check will answer whether the RAAS has acted in accordance with practices and standards, whether the time of sale and the evaluation criteria were fair, and whether the price that was charged was correct. Currently, there is a greater responsibility on the ICAS Board, i.e. the Supervisory Board oversees how the auctions are conducted. It is certainly his job to ensure that everything is fair and transparent. I think there is no reason to doubt at this point that the Council is not planning things in the best way, because the Council has been almost completely replaced by today, compared to what was at the time of the Arsenal Centre transaction. Once again, I think that it is control and supervision of transactions that should produce the best result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U69	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Krista Aru's heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U70	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. Good people's representatives! Unfortunately, today, too, we must say that the country still lacks a comprehensive, decent real estate policy that responds to today's changes. I do not want it to sound like the current minister has failed to do anything today. The current minister has given answers to our questions exactly as much as he has been able to familiarise himself with this major area. It was especially nice that he honestly said that there were problems and that many questions would be returned. In addition to the fact that there is no cross-cutting analysis of the real estate held by the state, we have not been able to address at all the issues concerning heritage conservation objects in depth. Let us recall even a few of them. Porkuni Manor has been a historical, cultural gem, but now it's broken down. It has been tried to sell at almost non-existent prices and is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic, together with the company established for the management of real estate, which is the State Real Estate Company. There are still such questions and problems, but I see a very clear line here. As long as the state does not have a transparent and understandable, equally interpreted real estate strategy, unfortunate situations such as those of the Arsenal Centre may arise, and as Mr Herkel said, perhaps these ugly things will be even more exposed. Here is the question that things must be transparent, considered, so that no selfish thought can arise. What I particularly have to say about all this real estate management is still one question to which the Minister replied. Indeed, if the purpose of the creation of the State Real Estate Company was to facilitate the life of directors, the life of the managers of the institution, so that they would not have to deal with real estate issues, to give them to one of the centralized companies, is the decision that the RKAS is now a company and has to make profits, the best solution for all real estate objects in the country? Because if there is a owner on the one hand and a user on the other, then we must be able to make a clear distinction that the owner has one interest and the user has another interest. And if both sides are a country, how would it be the most economical and sustainable, ecological way forward? The other part is that the state, as owner of real estate, should provide a good example of how to treat its property from an architectural point of view and preserve its heritage from a historical point of view. These questions have been set as targets, but unfortunately the state as a real estate manager has not been able to set an example here to date. So power, Minister Korb! We hope that we will return to all these questions and then we will be able to hear your positive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U71	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U72	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I very much liked the Minister's reply that the situation in Patarei prison is not the sole responsibility of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, but the entire government is responsible for this failure. Yes, I would like to recall what I have also read in several documents that the general meeting of Riigi Kinnisvara AS is the Minister of State Administration, which is the representative of the government and bears this responsibility for the government. Now it is the question of who will finally take action, because the current ministers for public administration have not wanted to deal with this issue; it has obviously not been a priority. The previous minister had a priority, for example, to draft and initiate a law on administrative-territorial reform. The next minister will then be committed to carrying out this reform. But, unfortunately, there is also another world in which questions need to be resolved. The first question is whether the Minister for Public Administration is not the right structure where real estate transactions should be dealt with at all, as this structure is likely to lack competence. Coming back to Patarei Prison, then here's the egg-or-chicken question. Which is first, is it necessary to decide what is the object's intended purpose, or to determine the investment needs, for example, for the roof? Because if the roof isn't repaired, it's not the object for which the purpose of finding it is my concern. Some have claimed that putting a new roof on this entire complex would cost 1.5 million. If I remember correctly, in 2015 the net profit of Riigi Kinnisvara AS was 84 million. Compared to this, 1.5 million should not be too much money. Patarei Prison, Linnahall, these are all tourist destinations that make Northern Tallinn unique. The harbor's next door. Hundreds of people from many foreign countries walk there. We need to make this area more attractive and also make the seaside more open, as the capital of our maritime state, Tallinn, urgently needs. We also have a lack of planning in our development. In the case of Patarei prison, the fact is that if only the state had responsibility through state real estate AS, no solution would be found. It would be good if representatives of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, representatives of private business and also the local government would sit at one table and look for solutions, because there are no solutions without the cooperation of the various parties. I also support Krista Aru's idea that we should seriously consider whether the function that the state has taken on in relation to these real estates is what the state actually has to bear. Times are quite different, and I think that if we trust private business more, the opportunities are much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U73	There are no further requests to speak. The Minister does not want to speak either. This item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-06_U74	Free mike. There's no call. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.49 p.m.
