ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Tuesday session on our 6th working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U2	Before we do anything else, let's hear the oath of the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, Heili Sepa. Please, Heili Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain loyal to the people of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, and in accordance with my conscience, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Estonia, to perform impartially all the duties for which I am obliged by the Office. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, we are submitting an inquiry to Mr Mikhail Korb, the Minister of State Administration. The subject is the administrative reform bottlenecks in the example of the municipality of Pühalepa. Pühalepa is known to be the easternmost municipality of Hiiumaa, where 1590 people live as of 1 January. As a result, he will be forced to join or join another rural municipality. In formation, Hiiumaa is covered by the grand government of Hiiumaa. The leaders of the municipality of Pühalepa, however, predict that joining will produce the opposite result. The lives of the unweds are getting worse. Currently, there are two schools, two kindergartens, three libraries, a social centre, residential housing, a cultural and youth centre, two sports buildings, a nature education centre, cemeteries, etc. It's about 90 miles [140 km] on the streets. The financial capacity of the municipality is also sustainable; the wage fund has increased steadily by 5 to 10% per year. The concern of the leaders of the municipality of Pühalepa is due to the lack of suspension of administrative reform and, as a result, we have four questions. Firstly, how can we ensure that the services that are currently available to the rural municipality and many of them free of charge are not distanced or not paid? Secondly, how will fair representation and participation of smaller municipalities in the authorities and decision-making processes of the emerging power be ensured? Thirdly, how can we ensure that when more prosperous and poorer rural municipalities join, the harder ones do not lose the fruits of their years of work and the poorer ones do not solve their problems at the expense of their neighbours? Fourthly, in the course of the administrative reform, how is it planned to preserve the identity and historical continuity of the long-standing local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U6	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U7	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of six members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva and this time the subject of deinstitutionalisation of special welfare institutions. The deinstitutionalisation and reorganisation of special care institutions has been planned by the state for the last ten years. The aim is to provide better services closer to the person and to shut down the Soviet-era community-special care facilities. Undoubtedly, this is the right direction. The state has increasingly directed more services to special care year after year. In addition, more than 2031 service places have been created across Estonia. Services have been set up since 2011 with the support of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds, and some €50 million have also been earmarked for this programming period in order to modernise infrastructure, build new family houses and increasingly develop community-based services. Most of this funding has gone to AS Hoolekandeteenused, but in addition to this service provider, there are a number of service providers, non-profit institutions. Unfortunately, however, it has now become apparent that the state does not treat all service providers equally. For example, the fact that AS Hoolekandeteenused is given money from the state budget to finance its own share, or there is a risk that people who are currently in the institutions will be assigned to new service places. We have put seven questions to the Minister for Social Protection to find out all this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U8	On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and we are dealing with them on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, let's do the presence check. 89 parliamentarians take part in the sitting, no 12. One message, ladies and gentlemen. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Helsinki Permanent Connection Support Group will take place in this Chamber, convened by Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U9	Today's second item is the third reading of the Draft Act 355 on the Amendment of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There are no requests to speak. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 355. Let's go to the preparations for the vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 355. Please take a stand and vote. There were 81 voters in favour of the bill, 6 against. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U10	Today's third item is the first reading of Draft 387 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would remind you that, in the case of this draft, each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to the rapporteur and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu in Henn Põllea, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U11	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to bring before you a draft decision amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean'. The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft on 8 February. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, 10 February. At its meeting on 13 February, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions on the draft: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of 387 Riigikogu Tuesday, 21 February, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision. Mr Henn Põlluaas, Member of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading. A few words for those who may not have been able to read this bill or the explanatory memorandum. This is simply a change in the member of the delegation because former member of the delegation Imre Sooäär is no longer a member of the Riigikogu and a new delegate, Marko Šorin, was elected to his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll open the round of negotiations a little later. Now it's time to ask questions when there are. There are no questions. Thank you, dear waitress. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That's not what you want. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 387. We shall prepare the vote. I vote on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean' draft 387. Please take a stand and vote. 75 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft. The amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of the Mediterranean Estonian delegation' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U13	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on law enforcement initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. In the name of the initiators, I would like to ask Henn Põllea, Member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U14	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you a few words about the draft law amending the law on law enforcement that we have tabled. According to this, the law would be supplemented in such a way that it would be forbidden to wear a burka or a face cover in public places. The draft regulates the wearing of facial coatings from Arab culture and Islamic culture, which have become a serious problem in Europe. To clarify, burka is a dress worn in Islamic countries that covers the head of a woman to the soles of her feet, leaving only a narrow gaze of view, and the gaffer is usually a rectangular cloth that masks the face of a woman's head, so that only the eyes remain visible. In the immigration crisis that has hit Europe, it has become clear that the rights of individuals guaranteed by human rights and constitutions have been put under pressure because of religious and cultural differences between ethnic groups from third countries. All these customs and customs, which have now come to Europe, unfortunately do not recognise gender equality, as Estonian customs, culture and legislation require. It is the harassment of women through the wearing of burka and nikabi that is incompatible with our customs and value system. The Koran of Islam does not regulate the use of burka or nikaba, and therefore their prohibition in public places cannot be regarded as a violation of Article 9 of the Universal Declaration of Freedom of religion, Constitutional Rights and Human Rights or as discrimination. The European Court of Human Rights reached the same conclusion, which discussed the ban on burkking imposed in France in 2004. The idea of this ban was worded by the then French President Nicolas Sarkozy as follows: 'We cannot allow women who are imprisoned behind the main cover network to be separated from society and deprived of identity in our country. It has nothing in common with the concept of the dignity of women in the French Republic. Burka is not a symbol of religion, it is a symbol of subjection. " The same applies to Estonia. It is precisely in radical and fundamentalist Islamic countries and circles that the wearing of Burka is characteristic. It was compulsory during the Taliban in Afghanistan, and it has also been mandatory in the subordinate territories of the ISIS. Those who have broken that command and do not wear burka have been severely punished. The wearing of Burka and Nikabi cannot be seen as an expression of women's free will, but as a violent and dictated coercion. The inclusion of facial coatings by women who arrive in European countries and live here from an Islamic background must be approached from the same perspective. The use of Burka and Nikaab is inappropriate from both a Christian and atheistic viewpoints. It harasses women. These clothing items covering the face are banned in a large number of European countries, such as Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Switzerland and Bulgaria. Recently, it was also banned in Austria. In a number of countries, such as Germany, a ban will be considered, and it will probably be done soon. It has already been banned in many German Länder. In these countries, fines have been imposed for burka and nika aid, for masking their faces, for example EUR 380 in the Netherlands, EUR 179 in Belgium and EUR 187 in France. However, in France, forcing a burka to wear a burka is much more punishable, and even EUR 30000 can be punished for it. If we look more broadly, wearing a burka also poses a clear risk to fellow people, for example in traffic, where it significantly limits the view of both the driver and the pedestrian crossing the road. And more importantly, in many countries it is forbidden precisely for security reasons, because the burka does not allow identification, especially in the case of video surveillance. We know that extremists have repeatedly used body and face clothing to carry out suicide attacks. All these same reasons are also competent in Estonia, all the more so since the defence police have warned against the growing threat of terrorism and the Islamist terrorists have added Estonia to their list of targets. The requirement for people to be identifiable in public space is absolutely natural and justified. The burka carriers are scaring the people of Europe, also the people of Estonia, because you can never be sure whether it is just a woman or a suicide bomber who uses this clothing to do terrorist work. This is all the more so because the wearing of burka has been increasingly observed in Europe, particularly among the second and third radicalised generations of immigrants, which clearly poses a potential security threat. By the way, the movement of a woman with a covered face in our public space caused confusion when Delfi conducted an experiment in 2016. On this basis, it can be concluded that, for example, a woman carrying burkats or nicabs may be at risk in our conduct that does not meet our social standards. There are no doubt those believers, including Europeans who have gone over Islam, who have taken cover for their face as a personal conviction. And there are also those who follow some fundamentalist Islamic flow and find themselves fulfilling religious requirements by hiding their faces. But I repeat: this is not a requirement of Islam; it is not a requirement of the Koran. At the same time, it is clear that the majority of such women have been taken by practices and practices that harass women without being aware of the nature of the matter, which is simply a classic example of Stockholm Syndrome. Following a certain fundamentalist or extreme ideology cannot be a reason why Estonia cannot, like other countries, take appropriate decisions in our circumstances. The presence of women in public spaces is against our social standards. In Estonia or in our immediate surroundings, it has never been customary for women to hide their faces, cover it in public spaces or perform public activities. By banning veils and towels that hide the face, society signals that the special customs of the immigrant population who arrived in Estonia cannot prevail over local customs, good practices and laws. We and most other European countries have not previously had a need for legal regulation in this area, but because of the immigration crisis, the growing number of asylum seekers and the terrorist threat, this must be done. The Estonian Islamic community, mainly composed of Tatars, has not had such problems because they do not wear burkas or nikaab. However, they have recently come to Estonia with radical Islamists who are trying to impose the practices they have brought on them. Given this pressure and the different backgrounds of immigrants and their understanding of culture and customs, this law must be adopted proactively, in order to ensure our social order and security, right now, i.e. when it concerns individual persons and has not yet become a problem, as in many European countries. It is extremely difficult to deal with these problems afterwards. That is why this is the right time. It is also ethical for immigrants who will arrive in Estonia in the future. They should be aware in advance of the customs, practices and laws of Estonia, so that they do not come as a surprise to them here. Indeed, in other European countries, in most European Union countries, such a more general route has been taken away with the ban on masking the face. But I think it is such a pointless, over-political approach, because we know specifically what we are talking about. This more general approach to the question means that we are also prohibiting motorcyclist helmets and ski hats, together with burka and nikab. Is that what we want? We know that none of these clothing items covering the face and other impurities that are carried in our cultural space or in our climate poses any problem. If we went such a 'wider road', it would require the fixing of exceptions, a list that, apart from the motorcyclist helmet and ski cap I have already mentioned, such as Santa's beard, the masks of cadrirants and mardisants, or the ski mask not only at the sports competition, but also in cold weather. We don't see much meaning or meaning in such a thing. In the interests of simplicity and legal clarity, it is better for us to talk about specific things, so it is precisely burka and nicabi that do not belong to our cultural space, which is clearly degrading and harassing to women. It is not possible to integrate into our society by wearing Burka or nikabi, to communicate with our people, to interact with them. Why should we repeat the mistakes that have been made in the Western countries and which they have learned or are now learning from? Let us learn from their experience and resolve this issue before we have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U15	Dear waitress, your performance has raised questions. The first of them will be Kalle Palling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Good Henn! I have examined here the draft tabled by your group. It has to be acknowledged that this is a rather narrow law of the law with only one line in the law and a small explanatory statement. In the vast section of the explanatory memorandum that fits into two A4 pages, you are talking about equal treatment, human rights, compliance with them, etc., and then you are just getting to the burka, say, its security aspects, the arguments why it could be banned. In fact, there are a number of things you could do before that in order to respect human rights. For example, the Istanbul Convention, which combats violence against women, could be ratified here in the Riigikogu to adopt implementing legislation on partnership law, etc. Why do we not deal with these matters before you have so much to complain about, precisely, the lack of protection and equal treatment of the minority? I would like to live in a country where minorities are not emphasized because of any view of the world or using any arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U17	Thank you. Yes, honourable opponent, this can be called a slight amendment if there is one line in the bill. But this one line has a very broad, broad and fundamental effect. Why write some empty words somewhere if the question can be formulated simply and specifically? As for the reproach of why no other questions are addressed, forgive us if we should remember that once the Reform Party loved to submit cluster laws to the Riigikogu, and unfortunately this practice has also been followed by the new coalition to put all world pain into one bill? I'm sorry, we're dealing with specific matters, every single thing. There's no need for a cupboard. And when it comes to human rights, women's rights and harassment of women, this bill really shows in the best way how to protect women who come to Europe and also to Estonia from the ongoing harassment that they would be involved in wearing burka and nikabi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U18	The one-minute question is Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U19	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, I wonder how the traditions of another culture can be appreciated in the way you just did here from the remote. My question, however, concerns Estonia. Do you think that the content of the draft reflects the major problem in Estonia that it is necessary to intervene with such a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U20	Thank you. I'm sorry the questioner didn't listen to my report. That is where I pointed out nicely that this really is not a problem in Estonia at the moment. It is very meaningful and necessary to prevent problems and to deal with them earlier. It is much easier, much more effective and more efficient, and it is wise to learn from the mistakes of others. As we can see, in other parts of Europe, several countries have already adopted laws to that effect. We don't have to wait for this to become a problem. The claim that it is an intervention in other cultures, their customs and customs, and it is as if it were the other way around, is deeply mistaken. The European Court of Justice has also held that it is not religious or discrimination against women, but vice versa. It is precisely for these reasons that similar laws have been adopted or adopted in other countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U21	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Henn! One of the questioners here made a complaint that you had too short a bill. He must have mixed things up because the length of the law doesn't matter. I have a specific question. I imagine there's a plane coming to Tallinn airport or a ship coming to the port and 20 or 30 women coming down. How should our law enforcement act in this case? In certain countries, wearing a burka is quite normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U23	In certain countries, yes, but, as I said, in most European countries this is not normal. It is already banned or banned there. Of course, it should be mentioned in all tourist materials introducing Estonia, and the police must act professionally and politely. He must pay attention to these people that such clothing does not conform to our customs, customs, or laws. Just like the police would probably act if some people decided to walk naked on Viru Street, for example. I don't see a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U24	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Making it possible to identify a person for security reasons is, of course, a clear problem statement. But since you focused on introducing the draft on the protection of the rights of Islamic women, my question is how many female representatives of the Estonian Islamic community have approached you with the concern you want to address.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U26	Thank you. Personally, none of them have approached me, but it doesn't matter at all because we know the nature of the problem. We know the consequences of this, both in Europe and elsewhere in the world, and we do not need to be in direct contact with all things personally so that we can express our position on it or prohibit anything. As I mentioned earlier, a wise person learns about what is happening in the world, and that may be enough. We haven't, none of us have obviously seen directly acts of terrorism or explosions. Personally, I had a pretty close encounter with a terrorist act in Paris. My daughter was about 50 meters from there, and I thank God to this day that she was not even closer. I believe that all of you would do the same if your own loved ones had been somewhere nearby or anywhere where such things happen. And one of the many methods and tools to ensure that nothing like this can happen in Estonia is also the ban on burka and nikaab.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U27	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U28	Thank you. Dear waitress, Do you have precise information on the number of burka carriers in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U29	When this topic was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there were the Minister of Justice and representatives of his ministry, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and also Peter Espak, an expert on Arab cultures. By the way, they all supported the ban on clothing covering the face in Estonia. They asked the same thing, and if I'm not mistaken, I think the Home Office representative said that there are up to five people right now. It is not much, of course not, but the question is not how many there are now, the question is how many there may be in the future. That is why we are here today with this issue so that we do not have any problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U30	Kalle Palling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U31	Thank you. My question was not motivated by any resistance to respect for human rights and the fight against harassment of women. However, your party has never spoken so passionately on this matter before. On the contrary, you have underestimated the importance of adopting the law on partnership. Personally, you have given such a speech in the negotiations on this draft repeal of the law, a disgusting comparison that obviously no one has made in this Chamber. So you just seem a little lyin' on the remote on this subject. Tell me right away that you want another argument for your alternative facts about mass migration, which tells us about filled planes of immigrants arriving at Tallinn Airport, etc. I would understand if you were to talk about this and build yourself less on the facts that your party has with, or not even with your party, but with you personally, there is no place in fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U32	Thank you. I did not find a question here, but such a speech is a demagogic, biased, propaganda lie from the beginning to the end. That's completely absurd! When have I told you that immigrants are coming to Tallinn Airport full of planes, or what claims were all made here? Yes, I absolutely do not support the cohabitation law because I fully support the values of the traditional family, the customs and practices inherent in our culture, and no left or neoliberal 'European' values that have nothing to do with real values. If the fact that I have put forward arguments here by a family that, by my understanding, is made up of a woman, a man and children, I will be seen as not knowing what, if every word is demonized and everything is turned upside down, then I don't know what to say. It's a free choice for an opponent, and it's right, but I don't think it's right. And I also don't think it's right that they're going to put the different things together. What do the ban on burka and nikab have in common with the Cohabitation Act? I don't know, I don't bother looking for any connections here, especially if they're trying to incriminate me personally. Let's get down to business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that when we conduct sessions, we are based not on the law of order, but on the law of the Riigikogu's home and working arrangements. I would therefore like to remind you once again that one minute has been granted for the question. Madis Milling, please use this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! People have the ability to make things difficult. We admit that this is a controversial issue, but if you look at it with a simple peasantry, I remember the Finnish saying'maassa maan tavalla' and the Estonian proverb that says that it is not going to establish its customs in a foreign temple. I do not think that any over-tolerant liberal lady should go to the streets of Islamabad or Kabul and demand the right to go in short trousers and to be stuffed with shoulder straps. But I have a specific question. You mentioned a number of European countries where nikaab and burka are banned. Has this decision been appealed to the European Court of Human Rights, for example, in these countries? Do you know cases like this and what happened to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U35	As far as I know, the only case in which the European Court of Human Rights has been brought before it was precisely that ban imposed in France in 2010. The Court examined this complaint and finally concluded that the prohibition of such clothing in public places cannot be regarded as a violation of freedom of religion, of constitutional rights and of Article 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or as discrimination. So the very clear position of the European Court of Justice is there in this regard and to say today that this ban, as if it were discriminated against, violated human rights, etc., is completely inappropriate and wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U36	Please, Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I probably have no point in saying that we have a different view on this issue, that we both know that. However, I was very pleased to hear such a passionate presentation that the EKRE has taken the rights of women and violence against women into its heart. I believe that this will certainly increase the percentage of EKRE supporters among women above 5%. But since you were so passionate about this, can I conclude that the EKRE has now started to very seriously support the Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, or the Istanbul Convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U38	Thank you. EKRE has always believed, both in words and in actions, that women's rights must be protected and that violence against women is unacceptable. There is no news in this; it is even in the program if the honourable questioner would bother to look at the basic documents of the EKRE. We have also spoken on this issue repeatedly. So, according to the statement, it is as if the Conservative People's Party and women's rights have nothing in common, or that the EKRE supports violence against women, there is no basis at all. However, the fact that we support women's rights and deplore violence against women does not mean that we should support the Istanbul Convention. Any violence against women is also prohibited by our current laws and quite enough. If anyone thinks that our laws need to be improved in this respect, why not, always can. However, the substance of the Istanbul Convention is not at all that. If we look at everything it says, it's just a fraction. A very large part of the convention concerns how women can emigrate to Europe. All it takes is the claim that they're being persecuted, harassed, and so on. If we look at the world map and the demographic map, there are a billion people in Africa, half of whom are women. What about women's rights in most countries, what about them in the Middle East countries, what about Pakistan, Afghanistan and so on? And if you don't even have to prove how you're being harassed or persecuted, whether it's the neighbour or your own dog, who doesn't like you, then this statement gives us the basis to emigrate to Europe and gives us the responsibility to accept emigrants. Later, families and so on, etc. So it opens up a completely infinite immigration pump. In addition, there is also the subject of genders in the Convention, which have been very intensively pursued by the socialists. The Istanbul Convention states the same thing that Ossinovski recently came here to tell us that it is as if salt and genitals have nothing in common and that a person can, at his discretion, identify himself as he wants, as if there were no chromosomes or anything like that in the world. So, of course, in principle, we support women's rights and the fight against violence against women, we support this part of the Istanbul Convention. But in fact, the subject of women's rights and violence against women only takes one small part of this convention. The rest is about the devil, I say, it is completely absurd, idiotic, left-liberal agenda, which is in this way being forced on a normal Europe and a normal Estonian society. I see Marianne swinging her thumbs, hopefully because you agree with my words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U39	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Henn, I agree with you that a pretty morbid mind must be in order to link the issues of this nikadabi and the law of cohabitation. However, the word'stupid' is not good for this hall because, initially, in the old Greece, it meant a person who is not involved in politics and is not interested in politics. There are no such people here. I have a specific question. You see, in those countries where we wear nikacabi, men also have a peculiar outfit. In Afghanistan, for example, the staff have such a plaid hat and a rather peculiar coat. Well, if you see him, you'll know who he's dealing with. Why are you limited to nikacabi and burka? Why don't you make other clothes? It looks like chauvinism.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U41	Thank you. Thank you, too, for this comment on my previous response. But what can be done is, perhaps, the word that best describes the many things that are in the Istanbul Convention and which, as such a noble package, are being imposed. However, as far as these other clothing and headgear are concerned, I have not, in fact, noticed that they have created a problem anywhere in the European cultural space. No turban or any such headgear do not hide the face or hinder identification of the person. In fact, we are talking specifically about things that make it impossible to identify whether it is a man or a woman, whether it is a person with good intentions or bad intentions. We are trying to prevent women from being considered less valuable than men. That is why we have come up with this specific draft and these specific issues. Because we are only talking about problems, not those things that are not problems and that are probably never going to become a problem. There are also different hats in our own cultural space. Leave them be. The difference enriches.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U42	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U43	Good President! Good waitress! It is quite rightly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that the Koran does not regulate the wearing of a burka. This is also one argument why this is not a violation of religious freedom. But the world of religion is very rich, in Christianity, Judaism, and Buddhism there are many traditions that are not based on the Scriptures. Are the traditions that are not based on the Scriptures but are manifest in faith less valuable than those based on the Scriptures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U44	I would not say that they are less valuable, but following them in a completely different cultural space, where they are experienced as something negative, is a matter of its own. When it comes to religious practices, rituals, or whatever Christianity, say, baptism, communion, etc., they belong to, and are part of, religion. Burka and nikaab do not belong to religious, religious, and customs that would be required. This is just how to say, forced on women, mainly from the Islamic world, against which, by the way, the Islamic countries also have a very wide-ranging female movement, as much as possible in these societies. I see no reason why the emergence of such negative tendencies in our cultural space should somehow be accepted. Just as a good colleague, Milling, said earlier, we will behave in every country as local customs and customs foresee. Our men don't go walking in shorts or women in bikini to the city of an Islamic state. Similarly, we expect our customs and culture to be respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U45	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U46	Thank you very much. I'm trying to remind you of a situation, that is, how you answered Kalle Palling's question about where Kalle Palling has taken the facts from. I recall when we were together, you, Mr. Põllaas, and I, at a debate at the Postman and talked about the refugee crisis. The debate society has recognised you as a loser because many of your facts and arguments did not have the basis for truth. My question to you, Henn Põllaas, is this: do you really believe that the ban on burka prevents the threat of terrorism in Estonia? Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U47	Thank you. First of all, this debate in Postimees. This argument, as if the judges of the debate club had said that my arguments were not true, is not true. On the contrary. But really, I do. I believe that because we see the world getting worse every day, and it is our duty to do everything we can to make sure that this madness gets here as little as possible. It would be good if it didn't get here at all, all this radicalism, Islamic terrorism, Islamicisation of society, etc. And one part of what we have to do to prevent all of this from happening to us is banning the burka and the nicab. If it helps to prevent even one terrorist act, even one person being killed or injured, then I say we have done a very big thing and a very good thing. But by looking at the tendencies, I believe we are not talking about one dead or one wounded person, but by this ban we are preventing a great many evils, accidents, and despair. I really believe that, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U48	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The idea of banning me doesn't even stand in the way. As far as I know my familiar Muslims here, they also consider that if their daughter, who has been born in Estonia and lived here for a lifetime, would wear a burka, she would not live in their home for very long. But I would like to ask you what sanctions you foresee for violating this ban.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U50	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that under § 262 of the Penal Code, persons who violate or disturb public order, fellow citizens and endanger them can be punished. In short, a fine for the use of a burka makes it possible to make an existing paragraph, § 262 of the Penal Code, according to which a fine of up to 100 fine units or detentions is punishable in a public place for a breach of the peace or public order of other persons. So our proposal is to apply the sanction already provided for in the Penal Code. Of course, if the Riigikogu considers an even higher penalty justified, it is possible to propose appropriate amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U51	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U52	Thank you. Good waitress! In my opinion, the protection of the culture, language and traditions of our people is primary for the Estonian state and we should not really start to undermine these values in the spirit of excessive liberalisation. And I assume that what you are trying to indirectly draw attention to is to keep the same values that I have just mentioned. However, the question is whether the way you propose it is the right one. You will also bring out in the text of the explanatory memorandum the importance of human rights and the protection of women's rights. In my opinion, it is also important that a woman can decide for herself what is right for her. If he comes to Estonia, he will make the decision himself. I do not know whether solving the situation in this form, so black and white, will actually help to combat this problem. How do you feel about having a broader view of this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U53	Yes, of course, the main objective is indeed to protect our values and our culture. But there is a slight contradiction in the question of the questioner. How, then, will we defend these values if we give everyone free power to decide for themselves how they behave in our cultural and value space? It's anything but protection, it's the opposite. I repeat once again: I see no basis for such accusations as if this ban discriminated against or harassed anyone. This is a fact established by the European Court of Human Rights. Very many countries have already introduced such a ban so that we do not differ from other European countries in this regard. We would simply be one of many who have established the same conditions. I don't see anything special or different here, it would be a perfectly normal and natural act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U54	Please, Siret Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U55	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a slightly broader and more philosophical question. Does your bill today extend to ordinary citizens? For example, when there are people in public places who go skiing and wear ski hats. It is also known that the ski cap shows only eyes and noses. Secondly, we have days where the climate in Estonia is 20 to 39 degrees cold. Then the scarf is pulled to the nose and the hat to the eyes, and again only the eyes are visible. Are these cases also covered by your law and such items of clothing will be banned in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U56	Thank you. That's a very good question. This question, however, is repeatedly raised in the second option of whether all such matters should be banned. It is precisely because we did not go this way to ban such things from our cultural space, such things that are suitable for our climate, as well as those that are essential to our climate, so that we could not simply ban facial covers that hide our faces. Then, as I was saying, we should have put in the draft a huge list of all possible exceptions, but that is absolutely not reasonable. We know that people put a ski mask in front of them when they go skiing, and when the weather is cold, they keep it in front of them or put a scarf in front of their faces. But it's part of our cultural space. And that kind of thing is never used anywhere in public, it's used for cold protection. When we are talking about burka and nikadab, it is not clothes that protect us from the cold, but precisely objects that are designed to hide a person's face, so that no one can see it, so that a person can not be identified. It's essentially a completely different thing. I'm a defence ally myself. If we ban all facial coatings that protect our face, we should also ban our ski hats and other tools, including special equipment. That would be absurd. Or vice versa, a list should be drawn up that is not prohibited. Then things like Santa's beard, cadrisand or mardisand mask, carnival mask, motorcyclist helmet, etc. would really come into question. In that case, we should specify the circumstances in which they may and may not be used. This would make this provision so complex, so in many ways understandable, and could already bring in cases that we, as legislators, cannot foresee. Maybe we should write down some kind of face cover, a scuba mask, or not know what it's all about. So precisely because a person can be identified and so that women cannot be harassed or discriminated against with such facial coverings and clothing, this prohibition has been introduced in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U57	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have a much narrower and more practical question. In your answer to my previous question, you said that there was a arrest as a sanction. I have a further question here. Of course, I don't know if the punishment should be in the KarS or in the Code of Misdemeanor Procedure. But suppose there's a situation, for example, where a person is really meant to be arrested and he's in a cell somewhere. How, then, is it arranged for a person to come out of the detention chamber without a burka? Is there some kind of people who are going to get him some other clothes, or what kind of procedure is this? How is it ensured that he doesn't go back to the street after he comes out of the holding cell and then he doesn't end up in the holding cell again? What does this technical side look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U59	Thank you. It is, of course, quite clear the first time or the first few times that a financial penalty will be imposed. But in the case of repeated, let's say, such malicious violations, the penal code, yes, in the case of acts which disturb public order, also gives the right to be arrested. For wearing Ares burka and nicabi, it would not be an exceptional thing, but it is also provided for in other countries. In Switzerland, for example, there are arrests for up to seven days. So there's nothing special about it. Any infringement of public policy shall be punishable, and it shall be the decision on the penalty to be imposed in the specific case. Now, if we're talking about some kind of replacement clothes, we're assuming these people have their own family or acquaintances here. And if it isn't, then the twat is just a towel attached to another towel, it's just enough to take it off. Burkal will be taken away from the face covering part and there won't be a problem. So the police don't have to start getting clothes for these women from some expensive fashion house.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U60	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U61	Thank you! I still think that there is no way to fight terrorism by banning people's clothes. This problem needs to be looked at more broadly, and I am absolutely convinced that our security authorities are working on it every day, both inside and internationally. So I think it's better to put more emphasis on it. You mentioned two things here: one was identification and the other was the protection of women's rights. Do you believe that if someone goes to rob a bank or wants to blow himself up, he won't find another way to hide his face? We get people from Asia every day who wear respirators or whatever they are called, which side covers their faces, etc. So I don't think that's a very deep argument. And on the other hand, when we say that, according to Estonian law, you must not wear burka, do you find that it solves the whole problem of this Islamic community, will it help women to stand up for their rights? When an Islamic woman arrives in Estonia, she has the right to remove the facial cover anyway, if she wants to, but she will receive the punishment from her husband, regardless of whether this ban is written in Estonian law or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U62	I'm sure that doesn't solve the whole problem. We recently went to Turkey with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and met our police officer there, who selects and interviews those people who are relocated to Estonia. He told us quite remarkable stories about the perceptions of these people. As he said, it is quite common that when he asks women what they think is smarter than men or women, 99% of women say: men, of course. Why? Answer: very simple, men go out, they need to know things and the weather, of course they are smarter, our place is in the kitchen, and that's all we need, and so on. I'm not gonna tell all those really amazing stories we heard there. Burka is only one part of all these big problems. Those women have already been made clear from the low ground through this culture, customs and customs that they are inferior to men, they have no rights, they have to serve a man and a family. And the burka is exactly the same. This isn't folks' clothing, as you mistakenly claimed. It is precisely a dress that is imposed on women by more radical and fundamentalist circles, specifically to show them the place so that they do not communicate with others, so that no one can see them, etc. Indeed, the perceptions of immigrants and refugees coming here and their entire cultural space are so different that it is impossible to reverse all this in an instant. It is impossible to integrate them into our society in an instant, to make them understand our values and customs, many of which they consider to be immensely shameful and inappropriate for one normal person. All of this takes time to broaden their understanding, and banning burka and nikaba is just part of a long and complicated process. It is not only a question of raising women's awareness, but also of men who force women to wear burkas and nicabs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U63	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U64	Thank you. Good waitress! I now have here an analysis of Peeter Espak, a senior researcher of the comparative religious history of the University of Tartu, concerning the banning of facial coverings, practice in Europe, its meaning in substance. I know that this analysis was also sent to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs who have dealt with this draft. That's my question. In this analysis, drawn up by one of Estonia's best Islamic experts, it is very clear that, for example, burka and nikaab, i.e. the coating of the face, are not related to religious belief or service. Burka and nikaab are features of extreme Islam, because it is particularly common among extreme converters. This limits integration and social interaction, while reducing human dignity and discrimination on the grounds of sex. Can you tell me if the extremely minded female lawyers sitting in this room have read the analysis? Could you send this analysis to all members of the Riigikogu so that they can educate themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U65	Thank you. This analysis was sent to all members of the Committee on Legal Affairs at the beginning of the year when this issue was raised. I really don't know if our extreme faminists have read it. Probably not. But it really is one of our best experts in this field. And I would like to stress once again that his analysis had been examined by representatives of both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, as well as by the Minister of Justice. They agreed, shared the same concern about the problems that might arise in the future, and also felt that it was the right time to deal with this issue. Action must be taken and the law must be passed now, not when a problem has already arisen. But I can really send the analysis of Peter Espak, which he did at the request of the government, to all members of the Riigikogu. Or, in fact, I would ask the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs to do so on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U66	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U67	Thank you very much. Mr. Pier! It is somewhat even very sympathetic to watch you stand for the liberation of Islamic women from burka. My question, however, is how you, Henn Põlluaas, stand for the rights of Estonian women. What have you done specifically in this area and are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U68	Thank you. I stand not only for the rights of Islamic women, but for the rights of all women. This is not a question at all. I also stand for the rights of Estonian women. Where it's been necessary to help and help, there I've done it. We have supported women's shelters with our group, and I have personally taken furniture there. Anyone who needs help must be helped and it is natural. But I don't see any reason why we should now draw some kind of difference between what you've done for this or another thing. I'm done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U69	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U70	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! You also attended this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, where representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior were present, and there was also much of a praised theologian Peter Espak here. All three of them talked about the broader approach to the problem, but Peter Espak did not support the draft, not to mention the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Please explain to the public why they do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U71	I have already said this here that they were the representatives of the party who supported such a wider ban, i.e. not to talk specifically about burka and nikaba, but about banning clothing covering the face, as it has been established in most countries. And I have also talked about why I and my group are in favour of mentioning these particular items of clothing. We would otherwise drown in imposing endless exceptions that may not cover everything. There may be more and more problems if a malicious person finds reason to complain to someone who wears some kind of dress or head covering that is not on that list by chance. He digs on beekeepers with a big hat and a tight veil like that. That is why we came up with a more concrete approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U72	Jaanus Karilaid, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U73	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I'm sure the public wants to know what happened in the meantime. At a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on Monday, you promised to withdraw this draft as a defender, because we held a long discussion there, with different arguments, and we found that we would come up with a'more adequate regulation'. You personally promised that the bill would be withdrawn. You had a group meeting on Wednesday, and after that you announced that you would still not withdraw it. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U74	No, nothing's happened. I really promised in the Commission that when the government comes up with its draft on the same subject, I will withdraw the draft. I haven't gone back on what I said. We discussed the situation in the group and found that we have no reason to withdraw this draft immediately. We decided that we would wait until the government came or whether it would even come out with its proposal. As we remember very well, the government promised to come up with a similar draft at the beginning of last year. It wasn't done. When we presented our own draft in the autumn, the government had to give its views on this within a month. They didn't come. Finally, a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was held at which the draft was discussed. The government promised to come up with the same bill within a month. So far, we have not seen it anywhere and see no reason why we should withdraw our draft before that. There's no reason for that. If the government really comes up with a corresponding draft, which will be approved by both the coalition and the opposition, then of course we will withdraw. As I said in the Commission quite clearly, we are not chasing a point or a comma of our own name. It does not matter to us that the wording is exactly what we have proposed. It is important to us that the matter is resolved. It is important to us that we do not have a problem in our society, and we act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U75	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Opinions can be published in the round of negotiations, which will come later. On behalf of the Commission, I call on Hardi Volmer, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U76	Honorable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit less emotional, too. I am pleased to read out the official position of the Committee on Legal Affairs in this case. In the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a draft law amending the Law Enforcement Act has been initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party of 12 October 3122016. The deadline for sending the draft to first reading has been exceeded. This has been delayed for various reasons. At its meeting on 17 November last year, the Government of the Republic decided not to give its opinion on the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu prepared this draft for the first time for the first reading by 5 December 2016 and decided to ask again the Government of the Republic for its opinion on this matter because the government had changed. This was also agreed by the initiator's representative, Henn Põljaas, and this position is reflected in the relevant protocol. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft again. a on 6 February, where the work of the Commission was also briefed by the Legal and Analytical Department on the banning of these facial coatings at all. The Government of the Republic has not sent its opinion to the Commission so far, but the Minister of Justice took part in the meeting, who promised that the Ministry of Justice would continue to deal with the matter and present its proposals within the next month and half. Henn Põllias, who represented the EKRE Group at this meeting, considered that, as this issue is being dealt with further, the draft could be withdrawn, but the EKRE Group did not agree with it. He did not agree to do so until he could see the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic and compare it with the content and objectives of his own draft. They shall explain this in a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs. At its meeting on 13 February this year, the Committee on Legal Affairs took decisions on the draft, which of course are also recorded in the minutes. Only the rejection of the draft was voted at first reading. There were 8 members in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Other decisions were taken in a consensual manner. This draft has been prepared for the first reading at a total of three meetings. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 6 February, henn Põlleaasa, the initiator's representative, and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, were heard, before the names of the theologian, Peeter Espak, Senior Research Fellow of Comparative Religion at the University of Tartu, and Ringo Ringvee, Counsellor of Religious Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. This is briefly all about this passionate subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U77	You have at least one question. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Is the Commission satisfied with a situation where the government's opinion has not come in more than a month, perhaps even in the longer term? How does the Committee on Legal Affairs accept this situation and discuss matters without government opinion? Does the government fail to comply with the proposals of the Riigikogu Representation, in this case the Legal Affairs Committee, including the questioning of an opinion? What's the matter? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U79	I dare say that I am not very competent at the moment to give a 'full answer' to this question. I assume that's the right the government must have. I believe that this right is probably limited, and I also imagine that this kind of case is probably not unprecedented, but rather rare. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U80	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U81	Thank you. Good waitress! Did the Commission also have a debate on whether we should resolve problems afterwards, start getting into these issues, or could we also prevent problems and do something before they even reach our yard or the street? Was there a discussion about that? What were the concerns or opinions of the representatives of the political groups on the aim of the draft proposal to reduce discrimination against women, reduce cultural conflicts, prevent problems that may be encountered by cultural clashes? How were the opinions divided between the political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U82	In order to give a very precise overview of which group's representative, how much and what position was there, we should look at the website of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has the relevant protocols, as good practice suggests. It's all on its own. That is why I am now saying that I strongly recommend that you open this page and take a look at the protocols. The only thing that is missing from this subject and which must be addressed personally to a member of the Commission is the expert analysis of this very same theologian Peter Espak. It's not available there, everything else is. I do not dare to get full of who said exactly what he said, but the fact is that the overall attitude that got out of the debate and which, in my memory, expressed not only the attitude of the coalition groups was that the proposal for a legislative amendment was very narrow. And, unfortunately, he is. Clearly, this issue is complicated and man is not capable of making absolute laws that satisfy absolutely all other people. Such can only be the laws of nature made by the ancient god, as we know. But I am all alone convinced that very soon, in the near future, we will be sitting right here in this Chamber and discussing the same subject, but already as a draft law, which has been very well worked out and has a broad coverage. When we talk about people who use facial covering in public space, who cover their faces, do it in a whirlwind and provocative way, making it difficult to identify a person on the basis of their physiognomy, all of this, unfortunately, becomes more important because we live in very harsh times. Aig is that at some point we are facing this change here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U83	Before I give you the opportunity to ask the following question, I would remind you that the representative of the Commission has the full authority to bring along the corresponding statistical material for the sittings that have taken place. Many view this as an obligation. Next question, Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U84	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Committee on Legal Affairs discuss how many burka carriers there really are in Estonia and neighbouring countries, Latvia and Finland? Are there such statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U85	Yeah, it came up, the statistics are there. Let's just say, at this point, it seems ridiculous, all the more so if this law contained a direct clue, or if it actually referred to a burka or a nicab. In that case, I imagine the rest of the world would probably laugh off its belly button. No data are available for the countries in the immediate region. However, it is well known that in Estonia, we have women who could potentially go for a novelty with a burka, or would like to do so, to read one hand on our fingers and then probably have one finger still standing. According to my memory, there were four of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U86	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U87	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You pointed out here that it is believed that there will be a draft coming here in the near future, which we will be discussing and where such prohibitions have been dealt with very widely. The question is this: Is all of this based on faith, or did the government give some sort of commendation when their bill would come?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U88	As the people of the Ministry of Justice were also present at the meeting on 6 February, headed by Minister Reinsalu, I thought it was said that this was basically a matter to be raised on the table. As regards the current Penal Code, which deals with offences against state authority, there are some points that, by the way, even printed out, I have with me, which speak of this same face covering for malicious purposes, but they are not 'preventive' or 'preventive', which I think they should be. It's in the past form that when a crime has been committed with a face covered. It is my own deep conviction that this is unfortunately a security risk. But this, of course, does not concern the so-called folk costumes of the people who went in here at a later date, because that is what they are. I'm so sorry, I would like to highlight another historic moment. Of course, these are not items of clothing, or even, yes, folk garments, as they may freely be called, as a result of the practices laid down in the patriarchal Arab society, or as a result of the invention of evil satrap male men. This historical background extends very far, actually into pre-religious times, since Islam is known to be one of the youngest of the great religions. All of them are flowers of one field, out of Judaism, and so on, we know that. But when we talk about the nations that live in areas of the planet Earth that have been deserted for a very long time, it means that these nations have generally been nomads or nomads. They have historically had such seductive headbands, which cover their faces, are absolutely essential; they had practical, common value before they became so-called arbitrary demonic masks joined with religion, let's say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U89	Henn Põllamaas, first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U90	Thank you. It is certainly not folk clothing, and we may not go to pre-religious times or Stone Ages in the debate on this issue. We live in a democratic Republic of Estonia in the 21st century and discuss those things that suit our cultural space and which do not, which are acceptable to us and which are not. But now, speaking of this so-called broader view, can you imagine how long and comprehensive this list of permitted items must be, in the case of banning all kinds of clothing and other items covering the face? So there must be God knows what things. Even sunglasses are, in themselves, those that hide their eyes and make identification impossible in certain cases. It's a completely absurd approach, it's too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U91	So can you agree to adopt a law that would prevent a cosmonaut, for example, from walking on Viru Street or, I don't know, going to a diver in a diver suit? All things can be brought to absurdity, that's what we know. It's not like we can find an area of human activity where that's not possible. It is therefore, of course, a very delicate and complicated bill, or we will call it a legislative amendment. On the other hand, in my heart, I do not know the broader background, nor the previous discussion on this subject, I am personally very convinced that we are not talking about any ban law. We're talking about a preventive legislative amendment. It establishes a situation in which a person who thinks that he must, under any circumstances, hide his face in a public space with something to hide it, whether I know what kind of mask, Donald Trump's rubber mask or even a perfectly ordinary motorcyclist helmet, which really also conceals his face to the fullest extent, must be aware that here, in this judicial space, every qualified person, be it a policeman or a security guard, has the full right to come and demand that the mask be removed in order to identify that person. So it's actually the most basic detection measure, the physical marker.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U92	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U93	Thank you. Did the Commission also mention that it is actually the idea of banning certain types of clothing contrary to the principle of constitutional freedom? If it were to continue in the same way, perhaps you could also prohibit the wearing of dirty clothes in public transport, for example, or something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U94	Let's put it this way: yes, I remember the hooves in this direction, not exactly from the examples you mentioned. But by hitting it with a broad shovel, we are now, or will be, faced with one good old draconian question: to what extent and to what extent, as a sovereign citizen of a free state, I am willing to surrender my primary human rights and freedoms in order to ensure that my dear, close and whole society is protected? It is becoming increasingly topical every day in our secure environment, democratic freedoms and the ghost knows what the eternal contradiction of neoliberal freedoms. Personally, for the sake of the safety of my loved ones, I am willing to give up, perhaps unexpectedly, quite a number of self-evident democratic freedoms.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U95	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U96	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! What would you recommend to the citizens of the city of Tokyo, Japan, who wear facial coatings to clean the air they breathe? They go around wearing masks, that kind of thing. Maybe they'll get some advice from us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U97	You might be advised to keep on doing good. In such a contaminated environment, it is extremely clever. Thank you for your question. That's a pretty good question compared to our so-called environment here. I don't need to hint at anything else, but as amazing as it is, Japanese society is a good thing; it is an island state, known to be one of the most homogeneous societies in the world, where there is still no knowledge of what is a migration problem or what is meant by strangers entering, who do not respect local customs. On the streets of Japan, the threat of terrorism is probably minimal. I think so, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U98	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also mention that in those countries where the ban on burka has already been imposed, the problem was dealt with more widely in the law? Or did our government simply make it an excuse for our draft to address the problem very narrowly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U100	Thank you. The speaker above already listed very precisely those European countries where an analogous law has been adopted. Among them are some very important European superpowers, for example Germany is on the verge of adopting this law. I am not in a hurry to tell you what the wording and the form of these laws are laid down there at all. Maybe we're talking about some crazy ban on burkas at the general level. I do not believe well that the legal environment of any European cultural state would allow such a rather harshly discriminatory wording in the law. But yes, I think that our government has a fairly free hand to act on this line and take some positions, because it has also been done elsewhere, in many European countries. On the other hand, we are talking about countries where there is a serious problem with 'Latecomers' in the form of migrants, where there is a great deal of them. There are practically no Estonians yet. However, I have here a government document on the draft law amending the Law of Law Enforcement Act, which is short, I can read it out: as decided at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 17 November 2016, I declare that the Government of the Republic will create an opinion on the draft law amending the Law on the Law Enforcement Act, initiated by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia on 12 October 2016. I'm so sorry, this is the story I've got stuck with right now! For God's sake, that's my eyesight! This document is much smaller than the texts I print out myself. My childhood, the government doesn't create, it gives up opinion. That is the official position of the government right now, as I understand it. He takes the right to refrain from expressing his opinion, and I assume he has that right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U101	Peter Ernits uses his right to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U102	Good manager! Good waitress! The subject seems particularly sexy. We have four burka carriers, but there are often dozens of Japanese tourists with glasses and facial masks in the castle square. In other countries, for example, where the ban on burka has already been adopted, how many of these troubled people must be in order to adopt such a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U103	Thank you. I have no statistical data, and I also do not remember anyone mentioning any figures, listing those countries where this has already been done. I also do not believe that there would be a European norm or quota, or so on, of the number of people from another culture, their late arrivals, so that Parliament would discuss the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U104	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. The inter-group round of negotiations will be opened by Jürgen Ligi from the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not understand the truth of this last report, which has been discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and which has been thought by Hardi Volmer. At least that is what he could have said briefly that the government failed to give an opinion, rather than trying to stop here for ten minutes. There was, in itself, a meaningful debate. After all, the Reform Party must say why we do not support this draft. But we'll admit the problem. There is a problem of facial concealment, there is Islamic radicalism, and often Islam has a connection to terrorism and the suppression of women. There's nothing to deny. Surely these items of clothing, which so much has been said here, are associated with acts of terrorism. We should not deny the fact that the liberality I am thinking about here is a more liberal society that needs protection from antiliberal ideology and practice. Hate is a big problem. However, if we go into one religion as a whole with a bill or rhetoric such as this one, then there is actually a great potential to create more hatred. On the other hand, of course, it must be acknowledged that hatred is also caused by a number of Islamic practices and news. In any case, the potential for conflict is very great when this foreign culture becomes somehow intrusive. What can we do about it? Obviously the only solution at this stage is to be as delicate as possible. This bill is not delicate. We can talk about prevention, but right now it sounds provocative when we talk only and only about certain facial coatings for one religion, not about the problem of covering the face in general. That is why I think it is not practical to proceed with the draft, but it is practical to deal with facial concealment in future legislation according to purpose. This is a non-lawyer's talk, it sounds suspicious, and it has already been indirectly ridiculed here, but in fact there is also a category in law enforcement law, such as interference. There's nothing pre-defined or described, it's cognitive. Hiding your face is also a largely cognitive problem. At some point he creates insecurity, at some point he carries the risk, and at very many moments he is undoubtedly not avoidable. Very much can be done with completely traditional facial concealment, sunglasses, beak hats and everything else, but we do not have to go absurd with these examples. We could really talk about the goal when this law comes into operation and admit that there is a difference between a ski hat and a ski hat or a ski mask and a ski mask when it goes to a bank, then it is something other than going skiing with it. And if the Japanese wears a respirator, we're more likely to realize he's not wearing a bomb belt at the same time. He may wear it, but rather, we may think that it does not have to be responded to. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U107	My first contact with the problem of facial masking was in 2007. It has probably been dealt with earlier, but I am simply suggesting that this could also be a local problem. This topic arose in connection with the Bronze Night. As far as I'm concerned, the thugs who were raving and violent at the time partially hid their faces. Even then, it gave rise to discussions on how to formulate it in law. The situation calmed down, and obviously for that reason we no longer dealt with the problem. But I think, in the current situation, there are some examples where you can find analogs, enough to think about the law. This should be done by lawyers, but they should not do so in a discriminatory way, naming only facial covers relating to one religion, but, I say again, should consider concealing the face for a bad purpose or whatever that wording might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U108	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U109	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, A colleague in this Chamber today asked me how this happens, that sometimes we in the Riigikogu decide in a few minutes on questions concerning tens or hundreds of millions, but now we sit for two hours and discuss what women are allowed to wear and what must not be. I specifically explained to him, "I didn't start reminding him of the Parkinson's law, but I explained to him that, look, we're going to work with you. It's necessary, it's a very important job, but he's boring. But then one day we'll be held by the hand and taken to the zoo and then there's a party, then there's something to talk about. A double party, given the next issue on today's agenda. This kind of thing happens quite rarely, I remember only one long discussion of clothes in this Chamber. It was by memory 14 years ago. We were discussing what a cook should wear in a cafe or restaurant kitchen. Nobody squeaked against the fact that he had a hat in his head. But then we got a real bill from the government that had one of those inside, I don't know how to say it, bad words come to our senses. If the cook's a man and he's got a mustache, he's got to have, you know, these tiny blue covers. The fun was as widespread as the President of the Riigikogu sitting behind me remembers this issue. So women's clothing is probably a very interesting subject. Men's, of course, when we talk about men's clothes. I was moved by a sentence from the remote that was spoken by the esteemed Henn. And it sounded kind of like the outfit shows whether it's good or bad. In that sense, I can be quite calm. Whoever's been paying attention to it has probably noticed that the last few weeks I've been here with a blue sweater and a black color expensive. Ideologically very correct, patriotic. Considering I'm pretending to be a white person, the color combination is just great. I've got more than one sweater. Today I'm wearing black, expensive are blue, the face is the same. There's only one problem for me: I still have a white sweater. If I put this on, whatever color I put on, I think I should paint my face either blue or black. It creates a certain internal problem. I mean, if we are discussing a subject that is related to clothing, there must be a very serious reason for this. It cannot be said that clothing shows what goals a person has. I don't think any terrorist in the world is stupid enough to put on a prick just to bring a bomb to a mall. He is likely to dress in such a way that no one will notice him, i.e. he is wearing plain clothes. There can't be any other way, because they're not allowed out of the asylum, they're taught in other schools. If we are dealing with a ban on something, then usually there is a serious reason for it, such as health effects. That could happen. I am critical of a lot of things, but in this Chamber of the Riigikogu I support certain restrictions on alcohol, certain restrictions on smoking. When I was trying to find out if a dress could have a negative effect on my health, the first thing the Internet gave me was a string. If anyone ever raises such a question that strings must be banned because they have a negative impact on health, then we also have reason to discuss it here. But the clothing at issue is not a sign of a terrorist, it does not adversely affect health. Even Fascong has a thousand possible developments, and sooner or later, if you open a fashion magazine, you'll find an item of clothing like this. The question is nevertheless quite serious, and now I am trying to make you serious. Before I came back to this Riigikogu, I think it was in 2010, a narcissist my age turned to me with considerable concern. His daughter had been on holiday in the south, especially in Turkey. There he began to become acquainted, started to watch certain sites on the Internet, then gradually began to eat differently, then he started to dress differently and to change his faith. And right now there are several women in Narva who go around dressed as Muslims. He showed me which sites we're dealing with. I started looking at them. These are the same ones that I hear all the time on the news when I look at Russian channels and where people are made clear how they have to behave, what they have to do, who they are, who they are, and what they deserve. Looking at the agenda last week, I reminded you, I looked at these sites again, they are still available. If we want to prevent terrorism, if there is such a threat, there is no need to deal with what a woman is carrying. That's her problem, and that's her husband's problem. And if there were such words here that women are being harassed by clothes, I'd rather talk about men's harassing clothes. I mean the mink coat. Fighting terrorism doesn't have to start because you try to strip her and dress her up the way you like. Back then, in 2010, I invited representatives of the cabinet in Narva to my office and told them about this problem. Afterward, I was answered orally that they did not see any problem in this, that it was a free choice for every person. Actually, it's a much bigger problem. If you want to fight terrorism, pay attention to other options. And frankly, it's rather strange that seven men talk about women's clothes, who get together and decide what women can and cannot wear. Well, I'm not the maker of such assessments, but it really looks a little chauvinistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U110	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U111	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to waste much of your time, it has already been one and a half or two hours for this subject to be discussed, and I have already talked enough about this remote control. But a good colleague, Mikhail, mentioned my name and said, as if I had said, that clothing makes it possible to distinguish whether a person has good or bad intentions. No, you must have misunderstood. I was just thinking that wearing a burka and a umbilical aid rule out the possibility of understanding whether there are good or bad intentions, explicitly stating whether he has a bomb belt around him or not. It was my idea. But as I understand it, almost everyone who has spoken or asked here is actually willing to accept that there is a problem. We do not at the moment, but it exists elsewhere in Europe, where appropriate steps have been taken to reduce it. Everyone agrees that this problem will probably arrive sooner or later, just like all other things, in Estonia, and also agrees that it should be dealt with proactively now, not if we are already faced with this problem. The Commission has also made statements and proposals that the subject should be dealt with in a much wider way. I don't know if we really need to be so overly ambitious about political correctness and talk about things around the corner when we actually know exactly what things can cause us a problem and what doesn't. Why play hide-and-seek? We're grown-up people, and we understand what the problem really is. He is not in this space suit or anything else, but, specifically, in the disguised face of Islamic culture, the covering of his body, and the harassment and humiliation of women. Other than that, there is no problem in our cultural space. So let us be clear about matters and support this bill. We've seen the government's behavior so far. This so-called broader draft had to be ready as early as last year, then in the meantime the government pulled the stepps out of the wall, did not even want to give its opinion, and now it has promised to come out with the bill. But we have absolutely no guarantee that he will come, so in the meantime, we will proceed with the same bill. When the government comes up with its proposals, everyone will have the opportunity to propose any amendments or additions to this draft during the normal procedure. This is the right and opportunity of all parties, all political groups, all members of our Riigikogu. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, however, I propose that we continue to process this draft in a normal manner, and I call on you all to put forward additional and amendments at your best discretion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U112	I'm closing the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 312 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. by 54 members of the Riigikogu, against 7, with 1 abstention. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and Bill 312 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U113	First reading of the draft Act amending the Government Act 354 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Jüri Adams, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U114	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the last year and a half, Estonia has had a discussion about how the election of the President of the Republic should change. It seems that this topic is like becoming our national sport, it doesn't take a week for a joke, unless somebody puts forward a better plan than they thought it had been in the past. However, I think that alongside the question of electing the President, it is at least as important, if not more important, the question of how the President should do his job, what to do and how to deal with it. The current situation is that we do have the President of the Republic's Rules of Procedure Act, but the issues presented there are minimalist. Most things are left to the President to decide whether he wants to deal with them and how he wants to deal with them. However, the incentive for this draft is a case involving the government currently in office. On a proposal from the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic approved Martin Repinski as Minister of Rural Affairs. However, the Estonian public and the press took up this topic. There were a lot of things that we definitely didn't know. Finally, Mr Repinski resigned. In my opinion and in the opinion of my group as a whole, such a case should in principle not have occurred at all. In the meantime, this possibility has been ruled out by the fact that the prime ministers and their political parties have done a good preliminary job of selecting the candidates for ministers. I do not know why Prime Minister Ratas and his party did not foresee such a problem. It should have been foreseen that this should be a mandatory element of political qualifications. The question now is that if we have such an experience, how can we make sure that it does not happen again in the future? When the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this draft, one of the members of the committee said that there should be more than one case in order to raise the issue as a draft law. I was thinking, how much were two, three, half a dozen or a dozen unsuccessful ministerial choices? The problem is to know about yourself in principle from the times of the Constitutional Assembly. It is just that no one has raised it in the form of a bill because there has been no practical need for it in life. There has been no experience in these twenty-five years that the candidate Prime Minister has presented someone who is not fit for office as Minister to the President for approval. We have had one experience since Lennart Meri, the first term of office of Mart Laar's government, when the president refused to replace two ministers. But at the time, it was not a question of personal qualities. The President was simply sympathetic to the past ministers, but those who the Prime Minister wanted to appoint were professionals of the same size and were also fit for office. The fundamental idea is that, in a situation where a candidate for minister has been submitted for approval, the President should carry out the same checks as he does on all the people he appoints, such as judges. If the President submits candidates to the Riigikogu for approval, the prior examination shall be carried out. By the way, just yesterday, an article was published in Postimees, entitled 'The state tightens the background checks of the authorities'. It quotes Urmas Reinsalu, the Minister of Justice, who justified the amendment by the need to exclude dangerous people from access to office. I think that this is very nicely said, and that also explains the content of our draft. We would also like in the future to prevent inappropriate people from going into ministerial office in advance. If we look at the Constitution of Estonia, the general principle of the Estonian system of state is that no appointment or other important decision is made by a single state institution, it is always a joint decision of two state institutions: one state institution proposes and the other confirms. This principle of balance of powers is probably the strongest principle of our constitution. Usually, there is talk of separation of powers, but balance on this issue is certainly worth more. One of the problems we have in Estonia is being a rubber stamp. This is usually spoken from the Riigikogu's point of view and the direct experience of the current composition in this regard has been gained in connection with the administrative reform law. This bill became the law by rubber stamping. But this problem certainly does not concern only the Riigikogu; basically, rubber stamping is also dealt with by the government, especially in cases where it gives its approval to various documents or arrangements coming from the European Union that are not in accordance with Estonia's interests. However, if the President appoints a candidate without verification, then the President has also retreated to the rubber seal, and that is not good. The Government of the Republic gave a negative opinion on our draft. What about it? The text from the Ministry of Justice states that the President of the Republic must trust the choices of the Prime Minister's candidate. I would say a quote from an Estonian political cryptic: 'For heaven's sake! " No reasonable person in this world can trust anyone else without control. On the contrary, I call for such situations to be minimised or eliminated in Estonia. In addition, the Government's opinion states that imposing restrictions in the form proposed in the draft is not compatible with the constitutional regime of Estonia. Let's see what the limitations of the bill are. The draft states first of all that there must be a conviction that the future minister knows enough Estonian. What kind of restriction is that? Who's being surrounded? People who do not speak Estonian are restricted to becoming ministers. Next, this person should not have valid criminal penalties. It's a terrible restriction! Why is it that people with a valid crime penalty are not allowed to become ministers?! Also, this person should be suitable for a mentally, spiritually specific appointment. It's a terrible restriction again! And the last condition: he should be reliable. Of course, you can argue about what that means. First of all, I interpret it so that there must be no serious suspicion of corruption against this person. This is a key criterion for the credibility of a high-level civil servant. Finally. I know that this draft was not supported in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Why is that, I don't want to get into this discussion. Perhaps the decades of habit of the game has gone well, and that is why we are overlooking the possibility that things could go badly. I suppose the bill will be voted out of Riigikogu proceedings, but the problem will not disappear. The faction of the Free Party, as the initiator of the draft law, very much wishes that if the Riigikogu does not consider such a amendment to be necessary, then let us at least request that the current President and all subsequent Presidents carry out the work of substantive verification without precepting the result to be what is necessary. As a Chinese politician in his day said very figuratively: it is not the color of a cat that matters, it is important that the cat captures the mouse that it must capture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U115	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Adams! We have been sitting against you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a year and a half, and I have the very clear impression that you have always required every law to be specific. If I remember correctly, you have talked about the fact that the law must not contain non-measurable criteria. Here we are talking about credibility. Are we going to measure it with weight or ruler? How?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U117	I do not have a very clear answer on how this is measured, but now we have experience that the Estonian press and people who knew the past course of life of Mr Repinski, in a relatively short period of time, must have destroyed the trust of the entire society in such a minister within a week and a half. We could sit down and try to make some sort of list of factors of reliability. One and the most obvious is, for example, the suspicions of corruption. But you can never draw up an exhaustive list.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U118	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U119	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Minister must be credible and he must not have a criminal sentence. The Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General sitting at the table of the government may have criminal punishment, but they must also have high moral qualities. Once again, the Minister does not have to have high moral qualities. Explain where they all sit at a common round table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U120	What's to explain? The laws written about them are written at different times, on different committees and on different drafts. As the annex to the explanatory memorandum to this draft shows, the handling of these issues is quite different. In fact, all the conditions that you have mentioned here should be met. I am basically of the opinion that the best law is when there is no law at all. The less laws the country has written, the happier the country will live. Laws can be initiated for a number of reasons, but the most important reason is if something has gone wrong if unwritten norms have not worked. With Chancellors of Justice, Auditors of State and several other important officials, we have not yet had any negative experience in Estonia, which would have prompted us to draw up legislation preventing certain cases in the future. If such cases are ever to come, they must certainly be dealt with. However, I do not think that things should be dealt with theoretically and perhaps in advance. I would have been against the initiative of this draft in my group if it had not been for one particular experience. And this is not a question of our current inexperienced President, who has just taken office. Nor did any of the advisers or other assistants in his office foresee this problem, since there was no case in their lifetime that would necessarily have been subject to prior checking. There was no reason to doubt this time that the Prime Minister and his party could not manage their pre-selection well enough. But since that was the case, it was necessary to write and initiate the bill. I repeat that it is not very important to me personally how this result is achieved, whether, for example, the Presidential Act states that the background of the ministerial candidates needs to be checked, or whether this check is carried out without the law requiring it, if the result is one, then I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U121	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U122	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! Of course, there can be nothing against the principle that the Minister must be credible, without valid penalties and a fully capable citizen who also speaks Estonian freely. Unfortunately, it has occurred here before that the term 'trustworthy' is extremely stretchy and inaccurate. But what I want to ask you is why you think that this supervision should be carried out by the President. Why shouldn't the requirements for ministers simply be stated in the law? It would be enough for the government itself to choose the office of people who are capable of doing so, without penalty, etc. Why the president?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U123	Mr. Põllaas, such a system has already existed in the Republic of Estonia. It persisted until 1934. We didn't have any president, and the minister was made without any control. The main question now is that, on the basis of the general logic of the Constitution, an obligation seems to fall on the President, not according to political suitability, not according to professional qualities, but based on reliability and personal characteristics. If I were to agree with your logic, I would take a half step on this path to congratulate the political model according to which there would be no president in the Estonian country at all. Why would we want him if he didn't have to do any important work for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U124	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, If I read a couple of words from the law 'a little pregnant', it would really excite me. You see, you have a pair of words here "fully functional," which leads to the idea that an incompletely functional minister might be. Where's the difference? How are we now going to decide whether the candidate for minister is fully operational or incomplete? It also says that he must speak Estonian freely. What do you mean, "free"? Like emotionally free? I can swing my hands and you will see that I am in a very good mood, and I will gladly speak in Estonian, only to repeat the same word a thousand times. This 'free' is also such an absolutely immeasurable size. What do you make of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U126	Dear People's Representative Stalnukhin! We are not both here for the first time in the Riigikogu and we know that there are a wide range of possibilities to express our disagreement with some drafts. I think it is better to say that I do not like this thing than to look for other reasons why the bill should be rejected. And these are perhaps the reasons that could be eliminated in the subsequent phases of the procedure, for example in the second reading, if the draft were formulated in such a way that everyone is satisfied. But the most exciting part of your question, in my opinion, is the question of full capacity. Since the time of the Constitutional Assembly, I do not recall that any professional lawyer participant would have drawn our attention to the fact that 'featureable' or 'unable to perform' are not very clear concepts and that we should not use these words in the Constitution. During the IX Riigikogu, I had the opportunity to participate in the drafting of acts of private law, including the general part of the civil code currently in force. And it follows from the concept that, although there is one extreme situation in which a person is considered to be fully functional, and another extreme situation in which he is considered to be fully incapacitated, today's law also recognises a wide range of transition options, partly for mentally ill and otherwise for mentally unstable people, but of course, age is also important. For example, sometime children become incapacitated and then gradually grow. It's a very broad subject, and I'd love to do it sometime. It could take hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U127	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good colleague, this time as a waitress! I will continue the discussion of some of the two bench neighbors one is the current pinginary in the Riigikogu and you are on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Since I, as the next waitress, can no longer present my views, I am asking about two things here. They were both just on the table. First of all, trustworthiness. Yeah, I'm sure all our high officials should be trustworthy, but there's a question about who's got credibility in their eyes. In the eyes of the President, or in the eyes of the Prime Minister who elects ministers, or in the eyes of us, the people of the Riigikogu, before whom the oath of office must be given, or in the eyes of the voters, or in the eyes of those who do not choose? The second question, however, is about capacity. I have also realised that we can handle this for hours, but in the case of one person as important as the minister, it cannot be on the table for hours. As far as I know, there can be no complete incapacity, either incapacity or incapacity. It is not a partial or complete capacity...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U129	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U130	I thought I answered about the ability to act. In private law, it's quite different, it's not just these two simple extremes. But I come back to credibility, how credibility is measured. We've been elected to this Riigikogu. If we received enough votes, we can say that we are credible in the eyes of the electorate. When the Prime Minister presents a candidate for minister, we should conclude from this fact alone that the candidate is credible in the eyes of the Prime Minister. This may not be the case in today's coalition governments. I remember that until the IX Riigikogu there was practice that when the coalition government was formed, other coalition partners had the right to veto: if they did not trust some people, they would not be appointed. At the moment, it seems that this has been left to individual groups and perhaps the Prime Minister does not have to deal with it. As I said, reliability is a descriptive and moralistic concept. In this particular case, we have learned that the various facts of Mr Repinski's biography were made public either by his enemies, but by people who do not take him with a great sympathy. The result was that he lost credibility in the eyes of the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U131	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U132	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear colleague Jüri Adams, In principle, I like your view that the person exercising executive power must be credible and his background must be verified. For example, if a bus driver is responsible for 30 people, he or she will undergo at least a medical check-up. The higher the power, the more he needs to be checked to ensure that there is sufficient and reasonable assurance that nothing is wrong. However, the Riigikogu has a higher power than ministers, or the Government of the Republic. The decisions of the Riigikogu depend either directly or at least indirectly on which people become ministers. They say the fish is gonna spoil, but they're gonna gut it from the tail. Obviously, the members of the Riigikogu should also be checked to see if they are reliable, whether they are not sick and whether they are capable of working.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U133	To be honest, this is not the first time I've heard it in this hall. For years, this idea has been up, and it does not lack its practical point. Obviously, we are able to give life examples of ourselves that voters have supported people with very high votes, who people close to them do not regard as a legitimate choice in terms of mental qualities or mental health. So that's the problem. However, this is a question that should have been resolved in the preparatory work of the nominations, whether the electoral union or the party. I don't see the possibility that we're gonna call in a doctor's consilium, line up in front of them and hang out all 101 for them. But you can dream.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U134	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support this bill. Is there, and if so, how did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs justify this? Or did he deny the existence of a problem at all, or was it considered irrelevant, or was ill-worded, whatever? What were the reasons for the rejection of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U136	Mr Krista Aru, my fellow groupmate. It is very difficult to formulate a general recital. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs still act as individuals and apparently had different starting points for taking a negative position. The common position was not directly expressed. I don't dare comment. My personal opinion is that for a very large number of Members, this seemed to be too new a problem. This has not been the case before and has not had to think about it in the past. However, those who belong to political parties that have been in power for a long time during the last parliamentary term have a rather automatic view that everything that is somehow different from the order in force in their time seems almost to be an attack on the legitimacy of their own power. I cannot say for the time being that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had this or a second or a third position. However, our decision was allayed by the fact that let us not now go into supplementing the government's law and, probably, by supplementing some other legislation on the work of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U137	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You're a man of broad reach. Shouldn't you be looking at this bill much wider? We're used to the so-called ironcake and Toobal and so-called laws. Now you come up with the so-called Repinski Law. Let's take a broader look! At the moment, the Minister must be credible and fully operational, and there is no mention of the Prime Minister. To the President, I looked it up, there are no claims that he should be capable and reliable. Do you not intend to write down the requirements that should be met by senior civil servants as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U139	It's also an opportunity, no doubt. But I do not think that this is a matter for a small opposition group in the Riigikogu. This should be a job carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. After all, the laws adopted at different times are written into a variety of large laws or codes. I do not mind if this would lead to us drawing up a code of administrative law. But we certainly don't consider it our goal to initiate such a big thing right now. I am also not sure that the state of Estonia has reached a situation where there is no more more important thing to do and can do a relatively little of such a necessary task, but still a great deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U140	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U141	Thank you. Dear colleague Jüri Adams! You created a very interesting construction in answer to my question that we have executive power, we have legislative power, we have the highest authority, the Estonian people, and there is some sort of expert committee at the President's Office that exercises control over executive power. But you also said that control of legislative power should be exercised by the highest authority, the Estonian people. If this line of logic continues, should it be concluded that someone should also exercise control over the highest authority, the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U142	It's a very ambitious construction, and I didn't really talk about it. I was talking about the fact that we are supposedly subject to the three principle of separation of classical powers, but according to the constitution, the more important is the principle of balance and association of powers. This is particularly evident in the fact that the most important decisions in the country are made not in one place but in two places. To give an example: we in the Riigikogu adopt the law, but that we adopt the law, that nothing follows us. The president must also declare the law. This is a typical example of balance. Now, the prime minister was Jüri Ratas instead of Taavi Cloth. How did he become his prime minister? It was that the President chose the candidate for his own reasons and the Riigikogu had to confirm the candidate with a certain number of votes. When it comes to the appointment of ministers, it must, in principle, follow the same two stages, except that the candidates for ministers are elected by the constitution as a candidate for Prime Minister. The Constitutional Assembly considered it extremely important not to repeat what was the case in the case of the Government of Edgar Savisaare during the transitional period, where the government had war against all. The Assembly was based on the principle that the government should be a team of prime ministers. To this end, the Constitution gives the Prime Minister the power to throw out of the cabinet without justification a minister who does not fit in with the team. But when the Prime Minister presents the names of the candidates for ministers, these people will not become ministers at the moment when the Prime Minister confirms his list, but only after the President has given his approval. This is the balance mechanism of the Estonian regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U143	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U144	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! All the institutions we are talking about today, the President, the Prime Minister, the Government, are constitutional. The government is made up of ministers. In this case, we do not deal with one distinction, because all the last prime ministers have been prime ministers of the coalition, or the government alliance team. They weren't exactly the prime ministers of the team. Does that not give rise to differences? One such thing is that the requirements contained in this bill should apply to all public officials. The government's main argument was that these requirements should not be laid down by ordinary law. But here's my main question. 13 of the 15 ministers of the current government have come from Parliament, so they have become the supreme authority of the state, the people's mandate. Isn't that enough to be a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U145	It's not enough. According to the Estonian Constitution, the people have no direct power to appoint ministers. The appointment of ministers requires at least some vague political approval, as the case of Mr Repinski proved to us, but no direct election is foreseen. The fact that, during the last three or four parliamentary formations, the practice of forming coalition governments has changed compared, for example, to the VII and VIII Riigikogu is, in my opinion, a very striking fact. I am not sure that this is necessarily a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U146	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Helmut Hallemaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U147	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitress! It is easier for me, on the one hand, to be more complicated on the other, because Jüri Adams, as the initiator of the draft law and as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, spoke quite a lot of things. He also dealt with discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was able to do so more freely. I am still reflecting the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Of course, on this subject, which concerns everyone, I also have strong personal views. The thoughts I have made in the committee can also be brought before you here. This draft came to the proceedings of the Riigikogu on 15 December last year from members of the Free Party. It reached the Commission on 14 February. Then the draft was discussed and the decisions that I will mention at the end of my report were also taken. The government presented its non-supporting position on 26 January. During the discussion in the committee, all 11 members of the committee and all advisers were present, the government was represented by Illimar Pärnamägi, Head of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Urmas Seaver, Head of Communication of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. During the sitting, Mr Hallemaa, Mr Adams, Mr Nutt, Mr Luik, Mr Vaher took the floor as chairman and chair of the committee, as well as Mr Aas, Mr Ernits and Mr Laane. The debate was on the same issues that we already heard about today through the main rapporteur. There were questions and answers. The main subject of discussion was the extent to which this law would give the President more rights. My own question was whether we would turn the President into a representative of the executive power if he were to postpone the parties to the government, the supreme executive power. It was also asked whether a change in which we would give the President more power would resolve the situation as the initiators of the draft law request. This approach was summarised by Ken-Marti Vaher as Chairman of the Commission. He said that the draft clearly wanted to increase the President's powers and that this approach could not be supported in any way. This view was shared by Helmut Hallemaa, Arto Aas and Kalle Laane. There was also discussion as to whether Article 89 of the current Constitution does not already confer these rights on the President. Mart Nutt stated that the Constitution makes it very clear that the President is to appoint and dismiss members of the Government. So, in fact, he still has this right now, except that, according to good policy practice, it has not been used. At the same time, the situation of our colourful and famous President, Lennart Meri, was mentioned when the President tried to do so for several ministers. Both in the Commission and in this Chamber today, it sounded like resignation was a surprise opportunity on the table. In fact, it is entirely legitimate that one or another member of the government, including the Prime Minister, may resign. If I am not mistaken, in this Chamber, we have at least two ministers who have resigned and thus ceased their mandate as representative of the executive power and have returned to Parliament. Ken-Marti Vaher considered that the right of the President not to appoint ministers in the Constitution could be interpreted differently. His opinion was that, apart from the interpretation proposed by Mart Nut, one interpretation is that the President does not have the right of discretion in this matter and that the President is not in a position to dismiss ministers. Lauri Luik, Arto Aas and Kalle Laane found that this particular case is not enough for us to make such a significant change in the law. I, too, have found in the Commission, and I still find that we do not really have one reason, one reason or the third. The Government's position was communicated by Illimar Pärnamägi, who explained that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 26 January and decided not to support the draft. Such a law is unlikely to change anything in practice. However, this would make the appointment of the Government of the Republic a matter of the same order as the simple law, and in that sense this draft is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution. § 89 of the Constitution states how the appointment of the members of the Government of the Republic takes place. According to the Constitution, this is a very legitimate and open process, all of which take part as equal constitutional actors. It is not necessary to impose additional restrictive conditions on candidates for the members of the Government of the Republic at the level of a simple law, as they are generally imposed on officials. Due to the Constitution, the mandate to form a government is given to the Prime Minister's candidate in the Riigikogu, i.e. in our Chamber. Since there was one key issue of credibility in today's debate, and also in the Commission, in order to do so, no one could accuse me of political bias, I would highlight Lauri Luige's position in the Commission. He summarised it in such a way that the concept of reliability can be interpreted in many different ways, so it is not understandable how the draft would improve the current situation. At the end of the debate, of course, we made legal decisions. The proposal was to put this issue on the agenda of today's sitting, and here it is now. We hope that this debate will come to an end within the time given to us. It was proposed that the draft be rejected by 9 members of the Commission, one against and one abstention. I was approved as a waitress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-21_U148	It's 1:02.18. Questions can be asked to the Commission rapporteur tomorrow. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
