ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! [[Big buzz in the hall.]] Very Honourable Riigikogu! Good day and happy New Year, everyone! We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! Happy New Season, everyone! Six members of the Free Party will chair the session today by submitting an enquiry to the Minister of Finance. What excise policy has been like in Estonia in recent years, both alcohol and fuel excise, we have discussed here on many occasions, but nothing has gotten better. This time we decided to move specifically towards a more general one. Namely, at the turn of the year, I visited a nice place like Tsoru settlement in Võrumaa, South Estonia, where a great shopkeeper has been shopping for 25 years. He's got another store in Nurs. But things are moving strongly towards closing down these shops, because the excise difference with Latvia is so great. But what is happening in Valga can be described as a real South-Estonian alcohol dispenser. I would even say that the main regional policy that I see now in South Estonia, and it is of a disastrous nature, is that everyone is going to Latvia for beer. And with the new government, it only gets worse. The previous government started, and now it's getting worse. Large liquor stores are coming to Ape, Valka and Ainaži. We would like to mediate here Tsoru shopkeeper Tamme Arvo's questions, which he has already sent to the Minister of Finance himself, and also to ask what happens to business in South Estonia, South Estonia stores, at all. Is this bullshit ever gonna stop with excise duty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U3	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U4	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Happy season for me too! On behalf of myself and on behalf of the 23 members of the Reform Party Group, I would like to address an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. The question is that, at the end of last year, the Minister stressed in the first reading of the budget that it was clearly written in the verbatim report that we would not increase the tax burden. During the budgetary procedure, the Minister even said in his public comments that the tax burden would fall on average by 0.2%. When answering questions about the second reading of the draft state budget in the Riigikogu Question Time, the Minister said that the overall tax burden will fall in the next year, in 2017. The draft law on tax changes, its cluster bill 302 at second reading, repeatedly asked the Minister about the overall tax burden. The Minister either did not want to answer them or spoke specifically about the tax burden on low-paid workers instead of answering the general tax burden question. On 21 December, a press briefing took place in the Ministry of Finance, where I myself attended and where the topic was the state budget for 2017. Among the materials distributed to journalists at the event was a list of key macroeconomic indicators, which stated that the tax burden would rise by 0.6% this year, or 35% of GDP. Consequently, we have a number of questions. Since the Ministry has started to draw up a new state budget, is the increase in the tax burden still visible and what specific circumstances have led during the budgetary procedure to expect us to increase the tax burden instead of the previously expected tax decline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U6	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The municipalities of Lihula, Hanila, Koonga and Varbla have decided to join. A deal has been made with the agreement of the parish leaders, so that the administrative unit that is formed can become part of Pärnu County. As a result, the territory of the western county will fall by a good quarter and the population of 15%, in other words, the smallest region of continental Estonia will become even smaller and the largest region of the territory will become even larger. Both the Western governor and a significant part of the Westerners believe that the forming municipality should be part of the Western county. The previous government coalition considered that regional membership was primarily the decision of the mergings themselves. The majority of respondents in the poll really supported this merger of municipalities, but a separate opinion was not asked about changing the boundaries of the county. However, the Government of the Republic, with the agreement of the local governments, as stated in the Accession Treaty, has an indicative character. In our view, the decision on county membership with such serious consequences, if it is a matter for the South West, has not been before the government in the course of the current administrative-territorial reform. It is a question of both historical identity and the practical proportion of counties in general, and it is also a question of breaking up existing social networks. In all this respect, six members of the Free Party Group have drawn up an inquiry to the Minister of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U7	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates four draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Packaging Act. In the Riigikogu, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Securities and Markets Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this law in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Climate policy fundamentals until 2050'. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U9	I have adopted five drafts and three inquiries. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will proceed with them. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu will be present at the plenary session and 15. Honourable Riigikogu, I understand you're excited. Now I would like to draw your attention to the adoption of the agenda. The Free Party Group has proposed to remove the first item from the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week; this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. With this clarification, honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the first working week of the V plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 3 against, 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U10	According to the approved agenda, the first question to be discussed is the question of the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp and Artur Talvik. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U11	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! A successful, constructive and happy year for all of us! The inquiry to which I will give the introduction was submitted to the Minister for Health and Labour for the first time in October of last year, but the Minister was unable to respond because of the change of government. However, since the subject matter is so important, we have made a new request for information. The inquiry concerns the organisation of ambulance services, its quality and, above all, the availability of emergency services for all people in Estonia. In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, there was a politician who tirelessly repeated that the Estonian state must bring satisfaction and happiness to its people and that the person must always be able to be sure of his country. The politician was Jaan Tõnisson. In recent years, we have measured very little the capacity and ability of our country to help each person so that he can be proud of his country. There's emergency services, there's emergency services, there's fire services. These are the units from which a person expects help when he or she is in a serious situation when he or she needs the help of the state. It is our duty to ensure that all these helpers reach out quickly when they need help, and that this assistance is of high quality and accessible to all alike. It is now the Minister's responsibility to answer all these questions in substance. I very much hope that when assessing the ambulance service, he will be able to tell us not only the average time of arrival but also the time during which the ambulance will reach the Manload or Alajõe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U12	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Happy New Year to you, too, for my part, and thank you very much to the questioners for raising these important issues. We have been discussing these topics recently in the Ministry together with the Estonian Ambulance Association, but I am pleased that they also find a broader political approach. I will answer the five questions you have asked, as they appear here. The first question is this: 'With the current state of emergency, four levels of priority apply to the challenges (slighter to heavier): A (alpha), B (bravo), C (charlie) and D (delta). If you call 112 and call an ambulance, there'll be a threat assessment, and the ambulance will send out the Alert Center. There are four regional PSAPs in Estonia. Since 2008, the work of the centres has been harmonised (a standardised algorithm for ambulances). In the case of Charlie and Delta invitations, the response will take place regardless of the ambulance service area. Alpha and Bravo calls are usually answered by emergency services after the location of the ambulance crew. However, since 2008, the ability of former county hospitals to provide specialised medical care has significantly changed. Therefore, emergency patients must be taken to regional hospitals or their partner hospitals. Transport outside the county, however, takes more time and blocks the ambulance brigade for a longer period. Is it intended to increase the number of ambulance brigades in the Republic? ' I'm gonna answer that long preamble question. There is no significant increase in the number of ambulance brigades in the coming years, as we believe that the current number of ambulance brigades is optimal to ensure the availability of the service. The ambulance service is one of the best available public services in the Republic of Estonia and that is very important. It is important to note that the nearest ambulance crew is always sent on call, regardless of the boundaries of the county or specific ambulance service area. Some figures also show that the population health development plan sets out an objective for access to ambulances based on world practice. The target is that the average time of ambulance arrival in the case of urgent invitations, which are charlie and delta calls in our system, would be less than 21 minutes in the rural area, less than 12 minutes in the urban area. In 2013, before reorganizing the ambulance, the arrival times were 22.1 minutes in rural areas and 12.1 minutes in urban areas, respectively. It was more or less close to the average world practice and also close to the norm set in the population health development plan. After restructuring, the number of ambulance providers fell from 24 to 11 that is what we have called the ambulance reform, but at the same time we have gradually increased the number of ambulance crews from 90 to the current 102. Both changes have significantly improved access to ambulances in both urban and rural areas. For example, in 2015, the average time of arrival in rural areas was 14,4 minutes and in urban areas was 7.6 minutes. We have achieved the same target at the average time of arrival in the so-called slow invitations, which are then alpha- and bravo-priority invitations: in rural areas this time is 14.1 minutes and in urban areas 8.5 minutes. The second question: 'Looking at the Centre, the problem is that the low priority challenges (A and B) require more telephone consultation capacity. At the moment, the PSAP has a medic who can quickly give advice to someone in need, which does not meet the need. How will the problem be solved? Who is responsible for both the priority determination and the content of the consultation? Such action requires competence. What measures are foreseen to increase the qualification of emergency centre medical staff? ' I answer in many parts. Firstly, indeed, the emergency medical call priority is the responsibility of the emergency service provider, who receives all emergency calls to 112. Of course, the skills of rescue providers in the processing of medical emergency calls depend largely on the experience gained in the course of the work, but above all, it is based on a manual for the professional processing of medical emergency messages prepared by the Health Board, which the ambulance itself calls an algorithm. The truth is that there has been a debate on the algorithm, it has been argued that it is not good enough. It is often considered that this is not good in the sense that 112 processors give more priority to invitations than is justified. In this way, the ambulance brigades will be shut down by sending them to deal with less priority cases because they have been given a higher priority than would have been reasonable. One reason for this is that the algorithm allows for this interpretation and, as a rule, the 112 speech processor prefers to interpret speech safely and to give the patient so-called more favourable direction, i.e. to give the invitation a higher priority. This may lead to a situation where the priority of some calls is really misjudged. As a result, the Health Board, in cooperation with the Emergency Response Centre, the Rescue Board, the Police and Border Guard Board, has started to update the manual for the professional processing of medical emergency reports and the procedures for the departure of the ambulance. The new manual focuses in particular on the most important and characteristic symptoms, i.e. it is more specific and unambiguous. However, the introduction of emergency exit procedures makes the provision of ambulances more effective, depending on the nature, extent of the case and the number of persons known to be in need. Both the new manual and the ambulance departure procedures will be completed during the first half of this year. On the basis of both documents, work is planned to be organised at the end of this year. Now the second part of the question. Indeed, the contents of the consultation of the PSAP are the responsibility of an alert centre medical officer, whose appointment has been subject to medical education (doctor or nurse) and professional experience, preferably in the field of emergency medicine. Therefore, the content of this consultation cannot necessarily be considered as incompetent. The truth is, a medic doesn't always do everything. As a result, there is also an opportunity to give priority to the telephone helpline 1220 of the family doctor, which has become increasingly applicable in particular to calls requiring the competence of the family doctor. Ambulance calls are A- and B-priority. Together with the Ministry of the Interior, we have discussed how we can jointly increase the capacity to provide the Emergency Response Centre's consultation. There are different ways. One option is to increase the number of emergency centre medics, the other option is to introduce a wider range of referral options, for example to extend the possibility of referral to the family doctor's hotline if this is a case within the competence of the family doctor. In addition, the call can be directed to a call-responsive ambulance. In this way, the brigade, who is already traveling to the scene, could provide advice to those in need. It has its pros and its cons. Sounds like a good idea, but it's got its own obstacles. It is also possible to refer the call to an emergency doctor working in the ER, whom the patient would expect to reach later. These opportunities will be under discussion and hopefully this debate will result in an improvement in the service this year. Question 3: 'The expulsion of the Rapid Aid Brigade may take place within two hours. If the person in need is in a public place and at the same time does not have a D, C or B priority, the ambulance crew shall be expelled as soon as possible. Does this long period of emergency medical care meet a European standard? " For example, some order has been given in the federal states of Germany; there are 10 to 20 minutes due to this time. The content of the challenge you described corresponds to the challenge of A-priority. Such a challenge is not an emergency, stable and no threat to his or her life. The expulsion of an ambulance crew may indeed take place within two hours and it is actually recommended that those in need should contact a family doctor if possible. Basically, this is an invitation to a family doctor's home visit. However, in Estonia, an ambulance will be sent to all the challenges as soon as possible, including the A-priority challenge. Norm is really up to two hours, but practice is something else. For example, in 2015 the A-priority call arrived in rural areas in an average of 13.7 minutes and in urban areas in 9.5 minutes. Question 4: 'Charlie's priority challenge is when a needy condition is difficult and can be life-threatening. Expulsion of the ambulance crew shall take place within four minutes. In the absence of a free ambulance crew, the emergency planner or emergency watch doctor shall interrupt the previous A or B priority and address the call of the emergency response team to the C priority. How is such a decision-making scheme consistent with the ethical foundations of providing health care for the population? As far as the current resource is concerned, the Alarm Centre itself will not call back the person in need. A person who has asked for help from the state can wait hours... Is there a plan to make a change in the arrangements for this ambulance? ' The professional treatment described by you is in line with the ethical principles of providing health care, because the need for help in a more difficult condition can be helped more quickly. In the case of low priority challenges, A- and B-priority, the need for assistance is not exceptional, it is stable and there is no risk to its life. If the call for an ambulance brigade sent after a challenge with a lower priority is interrupted and redirected to a higher priority, an order shall be given to the next closest free ambulance brigade to meet the challenge with a lower priority. Also, the above statistics on the time of arrival of the ambulance do not suggest that there are systematically long waiting times for A- and B-priority invitations. Rather, a long waiting period can be regarded as an exception due to the circumstances of a particular case. Indeed, in some cases this problem has been the case for individual regional brigades. The fifth and last question: 'In the last few years, a significant concentration of ambulances was carried out in connection with the restructuring of the ambulance. It has now been established that there are active reanimobile brigades, medical brigades, and nurses' brigades. The latter are accompanied in most European countries by a doctor who is self-employed in transport. Does Estonia remain exceptional in this respect that a person who has requested medical care from the state actually receives a service that does not meet the standard of medical care? Have there been cases in practice in recent years where the decisions of the sister brigade have led to serious health problems for those in need of emergency care or have they died? Is there a statistical analysis of the extent to which the absence of a doctor in ambulance teams has affected the outcome of the treatment of people (cerebral infarction, heart attack)? ' In the case of an ambulance system in other countries as described by you, where a doctor is accompanied by a separate means of transport, this is primarily an ambulance for paramedics. Specially trained paramedics are not health professionals in the regular brigades, but they are really supported by a doctor driving a separate car if necessary. It's a so-called rendezvous type medical team. The Estonian ambulance system is medical, which means that every brigade always has a doctor and a nurse or two nurses. Currently, there are a total of 102 three-member ambulance brigades in the country. There are 19 of these medical brigades, including the Reanmobile Brigades, and the rest are sister's brigades. In assessing the impact of ambulance work, the percentage of successful resuscitations in all resuscitations is an important indicator. On the basis of the work analysis carried out by the Health Board in 2015, resuscitation-related invitations accounted for 0.2% of all ambulance visits and 43% were successful. The EMTs succeeded in resuscitating 40% of the cases, in 47% of the cases and in 52% of the cases in the EMTs. Now I'm going to make a comparison of the time before the ambulance reform when we had more medical brigades. In 2013, prior to the restructuring of the work, this figure was 32% for the nurses' brigades, 39% for the medical brigades and 47% for the REBs, while the share of resuscitation was the same for all ambulance visits. Thus, the proportion of successful resuscitations has increased following the reorganisation of the ambulance's work and, of course, this is mainly linked to the reduction in the time of arrival of the ambulance. The proportion of complaints related to ambulances has also remained relatively stable or slightly decreased over the past few years, with very few. In order to improve the performance of ambulances, we believe that it has been possible to contribute to the development of common emergency medical guidelines, together with hospitalisation indicators, which have significantly harmonised the quality of ambulance services and the treatment of patients in the brigades. Now two more things we've done. In 2015 we launched a rendezvous-type medical team in Tallinn Ambulance, which continued its activities in 2016 and is active in the street. It has helped improve the results in Tallinn and elsewhere in the Harjumaa region. In addition, with the support of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, we have created an opportunity for the sister brigades to receive a medical telemedical consultation. This means that the hospital has a doctor specially on duty 24 hours a day, who monitors and consults the activities of the IT-connected brigades in real time in response to the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U14	Questions for the Minister. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am very pleased to hear that you are reporting: the ambulance is very well. I'll keep asking from here. As we know, the quality of the ambulance's work is controlled by the Health Board. How often are tragic cases discussed there, which, unfortunately, have been due to the fact that an ambulance that has arrived simply advises a person to rest, but when that person is a little rested, he stays resting? Such specific cases are known. Are they being discussed? Does the Health Board control them, and how do they react in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U16	Thank you very much. For the sake of time savings, I skipped a little bit of the review, but now it's a pleasure to read it. As I said, there have been quite few complaints about ambulances and their number has remained stable or slightly decreased. In 2015, complaints related to ambulances accounted for 4% of all complaints and other applications received by the Health Board. In doing so, an emergency service was ordered. Of the respondents to the Expert Committee on Quality of Health Services, this is the Commission, which evaluates medication errors, in plain language terms, they cannot be described as occupational errors, but was not satisfied with the provision of emergency assistance (i.e. the EMO and ambulance together) by 12%. A specific emergency treatment error was detected in one case and accounted for 4% of all identified treatment errors. As a result, we can say that the provision of all health services, in particular the provision of time-critical emergency care, inevitably entails the possibility that a medical decision does not lead to an improvement in the patient's condition. Sometimes this is the result of the collapse of bad circumstances, sometimes the wrong decision made by the doctor is indeed detected, but it is an inevitable part of the provision of health services, even in the case of ambulances. In general, however, we can be content with the quality of what we have. As regards improving the service, I will once again talk about what we have done to extend the telemedical consultation. With the support of the North Estonian Regional Hospital, the sister brigades have been given the opportunity to receive telemedical consultation. This means that the hospital has a doctor on duty 24 hours a day, who monitors real-time operations of IT-connected brigades in response to challenges. This doctor sees data related to the patient's vital signs, such as ECG, blood pressure, heart rate and respiratory rate, using an audiovisual system. He can process them immediately and, if necessary, advise the local brigade. In 2015, more than 3000 consultations were registered, of which around 60% were hospitalised. In comparison, for all other emergency calls, the patient is hospitalised in only 40% of cases on average. At the same time, we can advise up to 50 brigades now. All sister brigades of the North Estonian Regional Hospital and three first aiders from the smaller islands are already connected to the system. It has certainly also improved quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you for this presentation and for answering the questions. Statistically, according to averages, the ambulance is fine. But how long is the time for the challenge to arrive in Tallinn and, let's say, in Alajõe and in the man load? Are regional differences large and how are these differences to be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U18	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U19	Thank you. If there is a short or long arrival time for invitations of different priorities, this information can be obtained from the website of the emergency services providers. They're doing a continuous analysis, and I suggest you look at this website. There are ambulance crews there to see how quickly they have been able to respond to some or other invitations. As stated, the average figure in 2015 was 14,4 minutes in rural areas and 7.6 minutes in urban areas. And, of course, regional access to emergency services varies. As can be seen from the same statistics, it is clear that in Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and many other cities, the ambulance brigades are simply closer than in rural areas. As I said at the beginning, an ambulance is one of the best available public services in the Republic of Estonia. The Estonian ambulance is doing a very good job of doing this, as is clear from the international comparison, but it is clear that not every Estonian settlement has an ambulance brigade. This is neither possible nor feasible. It is also clear that some areas have a slightly better coverage than others. When a selection of regions was made some time ago, this was done on the basis of existing knowledge. I believe that, if there are really problems in some places, next time we will take a slightly different approach when we make this choice. There's a few trouble spots. One of these is undoubtedly the western end of Pärnu County, where from Pärnu to Haapsalu there are quite many miles, but quite few people. We have an ambulance crew in Lihula in addition to the city of Pärnu, and Lihula must also serve the entire corner that runs along the seaside until Tõstamaan. It is clear that when the Lihula brigade is called out to the Hoistamaa area and he drives from there and takes the patient to Pärnu hospital, he will return to Lihula in about two hours. That means there won't be a brigade in Lihula for that long. So if someone in Lihula needs emergency help at such a time, the brigade will have to drive there from Pärnu or Haapsalu. Of course it takes time to get there. But in a scattered country, it's almost inevitable. As has been said, we have a good overall coverage, but there are certainly places where there will be some additional solutions to avoid such holes in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U20	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U21	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was once a nice member, such as Mark Soosaar, who often colorfully brought out accidents that could have been resolved positively if we had enough helicopters. Have you analyzed it? What's the cooperation? I know it's not like choppers are in the ambulance and rescue and all that. We have a couple of them, we have to share them. You've just noted our dislocation. Wouldn't it make sense to have choppers ready? And what's it like now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U22	Thank you. Cooperation between the health care system and the border guard air force is good. We have arrangements on how we transport patients. It's going well. Of course, it would be more convenient for the health care system to have its own chopper, which would be permanently based in a health care facility, and be a separate helicopter medical team. But with the help of a chopper, there are very few calls a year. This, of course, is also because, in some days, there is no helicopter to fly in Estonia, either with current or future helicopters. But on the whole, we can do this job. We have a proper medical ambulance crew network. Helicopter service is needed primarily in small islands, where there is currently absolutely no ambulance performance, e.g. Kihnu, Ruhnu and Vormsi. We use both the plane and the helicopter to transport patients from Hiiumaa and Kuressaare Hospitals. Then it takes place as an "intermediate step': the person is first taken to the hospital by a local ambulance and then by helicopter or plane. However, it is often the case that if the patient is not "time-critical," then the ferry is preferred. Although taking a helicopter or an airplane seems to be a quick solution in itself, in practice there is no less than an hour to arrive because preparations and other activities take time. So I'm sure the chopper has a role to play, but the vast majority of emergency calls will continue to be solved by the brigades on the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U23	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U24	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! From the point of view of the sick person, I would specify the division of Estonia into a "centre" and a "periphery." Specialized doctors, such as heart doctors, have said that modern 24/7 heart attack treatment is guaranteed only in regional hospitals. According to your understanding, for example, does the person who has suffered a heart attack receive modern help in Hiiumaa or Põlva, or is it possible only in Tallinn and Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U25	I guess these people are gonna be sent to a high-level hospital, that's how it's been for a while. If someone near Rakvere should have a stroke, they will be taken to Tallinn immediately. No question, no one will take him to Rakvere. Competences and guidance have been agreed between hospitals at different levels and, of course, ambulance brigades know exactly where to take people for certain diagnoses. If it is not possible to transport the patient immediately, he will be taken to the county hospital for stabilisation and there will be a decision on what will be done next. For example, you can call a line-mobile brigade to do something during transportation. But on the whole, it's all agreed. The issue is not that we want to save money or provide proper medical care in county hospitals. But it would simply be unreasonable to keep doctors representing narrow and complex disciplines at work in every county of Estonia. We don't have that many doctors. So it makes sense to concentrate on competence in any case. In this sense, the Estonian Association of Ambulances is right that it makes sense to have a health care system where treatment and competence are clearly distributed between hospitals. The more complex cases are immediately directed to regional hospitals in Tallinn and Tartu, a little simpler to central hospitals, i.e. Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Pärnu Hospital. This, of course, requires a good ambulance service, and that has been one of the reasons why we have improved it. As I said, the number of ambulance crews has been increased from 90 to 102, and the arrival times have been reduced by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U26	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U27	The next question is presented by Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmm, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Artur Talvik. Andres Ammas, on behalf of the inquisitors, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U28	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The next question is inspired by a meeting of the members of the Vabaepartus Group with representatives of NGO Eesti Maaturism, where it became clear that the Health Board requires an in-depth analysis of water from rural housing establishments, including micro or small enterprises, where people simply host holidaymakers from other work. In an inquiry, we note that it costs approximately EUR 1000, but it has become apparent from the story of the representative of the Health Board that it costs a little more, EUR 1260. Of course, NGO Estonian Rural tourism members consider this in-depth water analysis to be a disproportionate cost and an unreasonablely expensive service. Six months ago, a thorough article was published in Postimees entitled "Little companies are fighting against the euro standard." One specialist, water microbiologist Kai Künnis-Beres, has commented on the subject there and said that the demand for analysis is justified only in an area where there is a real risk of pollution. This general commitment to small businesses is, in his view, unfair and simply stupid or malicious. To date, a lot of water has flowed into the sea and there has been a meeting between the Health Board and rural tourism companies. The representative of the Health Board has explained that in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment, it is planned to carry out a risk analysis and evaluate 39 bodies of groundwater located in Estonia. As a result of this analysis, it might be possible to know in which particular body of groundwater there may be too many substances in which they are not. Whether all of this to carry out an analysis at the time and to draw conclusions from it will bring the desired relief for rural tourism operators, we now hope to hear from the Minister. I would add that this is a border question. It could have been submitted to the Minister for Enterprise or the Minister for the Environment, but since the Health Board is still subject to the Minister for Health and Labour, we have addressed the inquiry to Mr Ossinovski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U29	As the inquiry has been submitted to the Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Ossinovski responds. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U30	Thank you very much. I'd love to. First of all, a little background. The executor's representative opened it up a little bit, but I'm going to update him to fit the subject into context. Where did this problem even start? In 2015, the Health Board carried out an analysis of public data, which revealed that there are a number of tourist accommodation establishments in Estonia that have their own well or ointment well and the drinking water of which has not been properly controlled. Based on the results obtained, the Regional Services of the Health Board sent letters of communication to the accommodation companies explaining the law in force and the need to check the water extracted from their wells or ointments in accordance with the prescribed procedures. Now it has been found, as the representative of the heirs said, that the requirements are too strict and the main concern is the need to carry out an in-depth check on drinking water, as this sample costs about EUR 1000. It should be noted that these small enterprises are required to undergo in-depth inspections once every 10 years. Until 2005, everyone had to do this at least once a year. Coming up to smaller operators, the requirement was changed so that the sample should be taken once every 10 years. Now the background of the requirements. When the European Union's drinking water Directive 98/83/EC was transposed, Estonia traded in the course of the negotiations on the Accession Treaty, what an old story! just exceptions to the quality requirements for drinking water with long transition periods. While in many other countries the requirements of the Directive had to apply on the date of accession, the limit values for drinking water colour, hydrogen concentration, iron and manganese content, odour and opacity in Estonia had to comply with the requirements of the Directive for large waterworks by the end of 2007 and for small waterworks only by the end of 2013. So the time was essentially given for ten years. In addition, until the end of 2008, Estonia was not subject to a limit value for chloride, electricity management and sulphate in larger waterworks and small waterworks until the end of 2013. And there are still a bunch of exceptions that Estonia was granted. Attention should also be drawn to the fact that in 2008 the European Commission opened infringement proceedings against Estonia because our laws did not have a sufficiently clear obligation to analyse drinking water if drinking water is part of commercial or public activities. In order to improve the situation, Estonia has completed its legislation. The definition of a drinking water operator and the wording of its tasks were clarified and accepted by the European Commission. Therefore, it is certainly not acceptable to accept the assertions that the state was guided by the implementation of maximum requirements when transposing the directive and that national requirements are too harsh or over-emphasised. So much context. Now you answer the questions. The first question is why such a high cost is imposed on small businesses and a weakly justified verification requirement. As has been said, they have been transposed into the Estonian legal area by the European Union's drinking water Directive 98/83/EC. The requirements apply not only to small enterprises, but to all enterprises whose activities involve the production, storage, processing, packaging or other operations which have the effect of making drinking water available to the consumer or to another undertaking which has to use drinking water in its activities, whether in return for payment or free of charge. The drinking water operator supplying up to 100 m3 per day, i.e. a small undertaking in this context, is obliged to carry out an in-depth water inspection once every 10 years in accordance with the current procedures. In the initial transposition of the Directive, all drinking water operators were obliged to do so every year, and later ten years have passed. In our opinion, ten years is quite a reasonable time. The second question: "How do you feel about the view that such requirements hinder entrepreneurial activity and take jobs off the ground? 'A company that has been operating for at least 10 years should not be overburdened to carry out in-depth water control. EUR 1000 must be proposed over a period of 10 years to ensure the safety of drinking water, which is certainly important for the protection of the health of the population. And the company could be interested in the fact that the drinking water it offers is safe for people. Question 3: "Did the government base its regulatory framework on the maximum requirements of the EU Directive and why nothing was done to protect the legitimate interests of small businesses? ' That's what I've already answered, but I'll answer it again. A working group was set up to transpose the Directive, composed of experts from different disciplines, including microbiologists, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Social Affairs and drinking water companies. And the initial requirement was that the sample should be carried out once a year, extended to 10 years. So we are certainly not dealing with maximum requirements. Question 4: "When and what changes in laws and regulations are you planning to stop the excesses of water samples described in the introduction? ' A little tip from an interviewer's representative has already given, but I'll give you a longer answer. In October 2015, Commission Directive 2015/1787 was adopted amending Annexes 2 and 3 to the Drinking Water Directive on methods of controlling and analysing drinking water. The amendment to the Directive empowers Member States to make changes to water parameters and sampling frequencies based on risk analysis. This means that based on risk analysis, it is possible to reduce the number of indicators that need to be determined in drinking water. This is where it is unlikely that any indicator in the waterworks would be present at a level that could exceed the limit values. In cooperation with the Health Board and the Ministry of the Environment, we decided to initiate, inter alia, a national risk assessment on the basis of amendments to this directive. The compilation and processing of data from Estonian groundwater bodies is currently taking place in order to prepare this risk assessment. As a result of the national risk assessment, it is possible to assess which bodies of groundwater do not need to analyse drinking water for different chemical parameters in the future. Examples of more cost-effective parameters are pesticides, benzene, benzobyrene and trihalomethanes. If they are not present in the body of groundwater and cannot occur in the water supply system, they do not need to be determined. In addition to the national risk assessment, drinking water operators will have the possibility to have a risk analysis of their water supply drawn up. This gives the operator the opportunity to assess the risks within its water supply and to take action on this basis, i.e. optimise the frequency of sampling and the number of parameters to be analysed. In parallel, we are preparing legal changes. The amendments needed to transpose the Directive will be put into effect as soon as possible, but no later than 28 October 2017, as this is the deadline for transposition of the Directive. Question 5: 'When and what activities are you planning to review other control requirements for economic operators and to abolish clearly unjustified claims? ' That is an interesting question in itself, which, I understand, comes out of the subject of water supply and land companies. If we ask what else we have planned to do in the near future to reduce red tape, in the framework of the zero bureaucracy project, we intend to make amendments to the health and safety at work law aimed at reducing the administrative burden on employers resulting from the law and improving legal clarity. For example, we are planning to abolish unreasonable information obligations: informing the working environment council about its activities, about the start-up of a business and about changing its activities. In addition, we will simplify the training procedures for mentoring workers, make first aid arrangements more flexible in the company and make health surveillance risk-based, i.e. we will bring out in law the hazards of the working environment in which the employer has to send an employee a health check. The intention to develop this law is being prepared. The activities mentioned in the Government's Action Programme are reflected in point 2.3, due March 2017. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U31	Now the questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was also at this meeting with rural entrepreneurs, and they were quite worried. But thank you for the explanations that were quite thorough. But still! I understand that there is a difference between people using water for their own use and offering services. But we are talking about the drinking water directive. What is the difference between drinking water and water for human consumption? Drinking water can also be placed in a bottle and offered if necessary. Another matter concerns water intended for human consumption, which obviously does not have to meet such requirements. Is Estonia the only country that has ever had problems with this? It seems to me that some of the problems of the directive also concerned another country where houses were designed using rainwater in the bathroom. This too was contrary to the directive. Are there any other problems? What is the difference between drinking water and water for human consumption? If the drinking water is not in order, can bottled water be offered to the customer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U33	Thank you, that's an interesting question! But to answer the question of whether there have been other problems in this regard, there has certainly been. Similar issues have certainly been raised in other countries. The representative of the inquisitor said that on the health requirements side, the subject falls within my administration, but I do not regard myself as a specialist in the various matters relating to chemistry and cannot assess the justification of the different parameters of these samples. In itself, however, it makes sense that if any legal entity offers drinking water to its customers, it must ensure that it is safe. In a situation where safe water cannot be supplied from a water supply, can it be provided from another source, a bottle, and what about shower water? To be honest, I owe you an answer here. But the good colleagues of the Health Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs will be happy to help me find an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your explanations. When should this national risk assessment of groundwater bodies be completed, and will you personally see this increase in income for rural tourism companies? If you see what?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U36	The primary indication is that it could indeed be assumed that the measurement of certain more costly analytical parameters could perhaps be abandoned. Examples include pesticides, benzene and trihalomethanes. If this analysis shows that they do not exist in some regions or quite many regions, they do not need to be measured because the likelihood that they occur in Estonian groundwater is simply very low. In addition, as has been said, we have the right to carry out our risk analysis at local,'regional' level, which is why we can say that we are not doing an analysis of these or other parameters either, because we do not have them on the ground. However, this issue is basically being dragged by the Ministry of the Environment, we cannot say exactly what the groundwater contains somewhere, but with them the work is really going on right now. In the context of the impact analysis on the transposition of this directive, if we have to adopt it as a law by the end of October, I expect that analysis to be completed before the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U37	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U38	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Honorable Minister! Am I right to understand that the accommodation facilities whose routine well water control has been carried out need not be afraid that they will be fined due to the lack of this in-depth control, as long as this national risk assessment is being carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U39	This law is currently in force. This means that every ten years, in-depth checks must be carried out. But we have given an indication that we are looking into the possibility of abandoning the study of certain parameters, and we are trying to alleviate the situation by this autumn. As long as this relief has not been made, it will be the law that is in force. I don't know what else to say as a representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U40	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U41	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! From your introduction, I had the impression that in 2015, it was found that the law was not being complied with, perhaps not enough samples are being taken, but you did not say whether, during that period, a huge amount of violations of water quality standards were detected. In my opinion, our market should be built on more trust. After all, the client will vote with his feet: if he gets a poor service, he won't come back. Have you examined whether other solutions are being used in other countries, such as any tester that an entrepreneur can acquire and carry out this test? If they exist, would it be more expensive or cheaper? Right now, I think it's a little bit of a business. Water samples cannot be taken by operators themselves; they must invite a person who must be paid 90 euros for this service. It doesn't seem like a transparent and honest system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U42	Firstly, I would not, however, ridicule these restrictions. We can argue whether all groundwater parameters should be measured everywhere in Estonia. And the direction we have chosen is an attempt to reduce this burden by means of this national risk analysis. But the subject itself is certainly important. Indeed, people can vote with their feet, but we certainly do not want them to vote with their feet in such a way that they leave some accommodation company, with their feet ahead. The subject itself is important. However, as has been said, this issue has so far not been given enough attention. This has not been done by companies that have not commissioned these in-depth analyses, nor by a country that has not thought about what the optimal solution could be. I think we're on our way now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U43	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Are there currently the most risky areas in Estonia where the start-up entrepreneur should be told that the groundwater there is not so high quality that he can carry out business, say, accommodation or other activities? Is there any such state aid and such appeals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U45	I think if you go to the Health Board, I'm sure they can tell you that. The Ministry of the Environment has done the same, and that is what they can say. It is clear that the quality of groundwater in Estonia varies from one region to another. It can be said that this is not bad in general, thanks in particular to our scattered settlement and the fact that there has been a great deal of investment in it over the last decade in order to prevent sewage and other waste from entering groundwater. But let's take the simplest example, Ida-Virumaa. It is clear that the groundwater there has suffered a great deal of damage and is still suffering from industry. Of course, it also affects what kind of drinking water is offered there and how it must be treated proactively.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U46	There are no more questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U47	The next question is Monika Haukanõm, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp and Krista Aru. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U48	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We've been talking about the ambulance. We've been talking about the water. Now let's talk about the situation in the hospitals. Namely, the sickness fund minus the first half of 2016 was nearly EUR 33 million. Because of the financial shortage, due to the full number of treatment cases provided for in the contract, hospitals are forced to postpone patients' treatment to the new year. There is an increase in the burden of emergency care and a sharp increase in the risk of patients getting worse. According to the press, at the end of 2016, 206 people were unable to see an ear, nose and throat doctor at the University of Tartu Hospital; 63 people were delayed in general surgery, 37 in urology. In West Tallinn Central Hospital, 250-270 patients had been delayed by the end of last year, about 200 of them in general surgery. The North Estonian Regional Hospital also had to postpone the treatment of many patients. In short, the service of patients depends on the volume of contracts concluded between hospitals and the health insurance fund. Since the limit of contract treatment has been reached in several disciplines, people are not getting help. We have been approached by a number of citizens who are asking the Minister for Health and Labour for answers on how the problem is being dealt with and whether similar situations of resentment and suffering are expected in the coming years, especially at the end of the year, when the budget money is running out. As a result, the representatives of the Free Party have asked the Minister six questions. We're waiting for good answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U49	Reply by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U50	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a pleasure to talk again about the financing of health care, this time in the key to the order of treatment. The subject is certainly topical. Just this morning, the health-care partners gathered at the National Conciliator. In addition to salaries, the issue of providing medical care to Estonian patients was also discussed. The Government of the Republic has agreed that, no later than the spring of this year, at the time of drawing up the country's budget strategy, political decisions on long-term financing of health have also been taken at government level. Now I will answer your questions. Firstly, 'How do you assess the financial prospects of the Health Insurance Fund for at least the next ten years, and what solutions have you proposed to avoid the loss of access to medical services? ' There have been quite a number of analyses on this subject, the last one was done last year in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Praxis has also contributed, as have several international organisations such as the World Health Organisation and the World Bank. The conclusions are generally pretty unambiguous. Given our demographic situation, i.e. the ageing of the population, this means, on the one hand, that people in need of treatment are growing. And in life, everyone's need for medical care grows because they live longer. On the other hand, the number of people who contribute to the health insurance budget, which is 100% labour tax-based. It is therefore clear that, in order to ensure at least the current level of access to healthcare in our solidarity system, additional money is needed for the system. Otherwise, we will be moving clearly towards a structural deficit in the coming years. Here we can argue whether we have already reached the structural deficit or are just getting there, but in any case, the results of the Health Insurance Fund have been negative over the past few years, i.e. services have been provided for more money than there has been revenue. If more services have been provided than there has been budget money, the work has been carried out mainly because of emergency medical care. Not all emergency patients fit into the budget. Of course, we have made our proposals to the government, and the long-term model of healthcare financing and its details are currently being developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. We have, as you well know, in cooperation with the Riigikogu, been able to allocate an additional EUR 10 million to health care in 2017, to specialist medical care, with which we can improve access to treatment in a number of disciplines. The Health Insurance Board is expected to meet this Friday. We will probably decide to increase the number of scheduled cardiology and neurology operations and, as a result, shorten the maximum length of scheduled queues in these disciplines four times: from eight months to two months. This is clearly a two-pronged area where the time of admission to surgery is crucial, as the outcome of the treatment depends directly on the time of commencement of treatment. However, as has been said, the deadline for deciding on the long-term financing solution is April when the country's budgetary strategy is being discussed. The second question: 'What measures has the Ministry, in cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund, planned not to repeat the situation at the end of last year in 2017, where hundreds of patients who have a need for treatment and who have taken care of the treatment must suffer in anticipation of the operation until next year? ' Here it is appropriate to first explain the content of the treatment sequence and the main principles for maintaining them. Health care can only be provided according to the order of treatment if the delay of treatment to a specified period does not result in a deterioration of the patient's condition, does not affect the course of the disease, or does not adversely affect the future prognosis. All "time-critical treatment interventions" are always done independently of the sequence, and the treatment queues do not concern such cases. This is so-called "extraordinary work', which is still done if the health care provider's contract with the health insurance fund is out of money. Patients are accepted, treated and overpaid, which according to a certain system is paid by the health insurance fund. Of course, we must bear in mind that the current budget is not enough to ensure that our people are treated within an acceptable waiting period. That is why we are forced to seek extra money in health care. We have estimated that the volume of uncovered treatment needs in Estonia is 70 million euros. This is done by people who do not get to the doctor in time or who wait in line for treatment. If they were treated, an additional EUR 70 million would be needed. Of course, giving extra money alone will not solve the problem. The order also depends on quite a number of other factors. We have started systematically to develop primary health care, i.e. to strengthen the level of family medical care. This is one of the most important areas. We know that already today, a family doctor could actually solve the health problems of most patients and the need to send people to a specialist would be reduced. This is the focus of the Health Centres project, which aims to expand the team of family doctors besides infrastructure development in order to better respond to the needs of an ageing population. If you simply add reception times, you will have the effect of shortening treatment queues for a while, but this may not be the case in the long run. It's been tried. I'm not going to name a health institution and specialty, but a few years ago, we agreed with a particular health service provider that they would increase the number of admissions in one specialty. In the first two months, the queues were indeed shorter, but as the volume increased, they returned to the same length. This was probably because family doctors began sending more people to a specialist, knowing that it would be easier to get there now. We certainly want to achieve, by developing the system, that people should go to less specialised doctors. To this end, we have also developed eHealth technology. One measure is undoubtedly a digital consignment note, which is not just an electronic consignment note, but a document containing clinical information within the Health Information System, by which one doctor transmits to another the results of studies and analyses, a description of the patient's medical history and the hypothesis of the diagnosis. Such a referral will allow the specialist to familiarise himself with the patient's story and, if necessary, to invite the patient to a meeting more quickly. The next step in the development of a digital consignment note is the creation of an all-Estonian digital registration office, through which you can find the nearest reception time in any hospital in Estonia and where the digital consignment note moves together with each booking. This will help in the future to rule out reservations to a specialist who is not referred to a family doctor. It is now the case that a person puts himself in line in several health establishments at once, looking at where he can get a reception more quickly. Often, a family doctor's referral is placed in the queue. It's only after they go to a family doctor. As a result, a large part of these visits are so-called 'empty visits'. People never get to a specialist because, in the meantime, the problem has either disappeared or it has been solved with the help of a family doctor, or it has gone to one specialist, and the other, where the time was reserved, has not been cancelled. In the case of digital registration, we can also rule that out. An e-consultation service and extension of its use are essential. It has already started in some specializations for a few specialized medical care providers. Basically, it allows a family doctor to consult a specialist without having to send a person to a specialist. The treatment can be decided jointly and monitored together. The third question: 'What sustainable ways of increasing the income of the Health Insurance Fund are you going to take immediate action? Is increasing the patient's ownership in one way or another on the agenda? ' The World Health Organisation estimates that the effectiveness of its own contribution policy must be assessed if it represents more than 15% of the total cost of health care. This does not preclude a situation where it causes too much financial burden for people or proves to be a constraint, i.e. a person does not receive the help needed because of a lack of money. The limit of ownership will become critical at around 25%, which is also the maximum target for our population's health development plan. In recent years, we have come quite close to this goal, with a holding of 23 to 24%. I certainly do not consider the further increase in ownership to be appropriate, rather the opposite. From this year, patients' own participation in dental care will decrease as a result of the application of adult dental care benefits from 1 July. Next year, we will also propose an additional reduction in the patient's own contribution to the purchase of medicines for people with a higher need for treatment. Question 4: "What is your position regarding the decision of the Health Insurance Fund in 2016 to reduce by 3 million euros the cost of treatment for heart disease when heart disease is the first cause of death in Estonia? What are you going to do to ensure that preventable heart disease is more detected in the early stages? ' I will also answer the fifth question here, which reads: 'When will you return the medical allowance for heart disease to the pre-death level? " These issues are the result of the annual updating of the price caps on the basis of the Health Insurance Fund's pricing methodology, which this time concerned cardiology services. This is quite a matter of budgetary accounting, which is both a matter of professionalism and a question of substance. There are new technologies and old technologies and it is discussed how many old ones have become cheaper in the meantime and how cost-effective new technologies are. But it is broadly about how the health insurance fund prices the different services on the list of health care services. However, health care decisions are made by a doctor, not by a health insurance fund. The review of disciplines, as technically called, concerns not only cardiology but also a number of other disciplines. In the last week, on the same bureaucratic ground, there was a social debate about the change in the pricing of children's hospitals, as if the money for treating children was reduced. This is not true and it is not true about cardiology services. Indeed, some services will be cheaper, new more expensive services will be added, but we will have a sum of money, but the budgets for cardiology services financed by the Health Insurance Fund will not decrease in 2017 and access to treatment will certainly not deteriorate. This means that if we have lower prices for components within this service, we will certainly keep this money within this specialty because it is clear that the cardiology profession needs additional attention. As has been said, the allocation of 10 additional million to health care this year is one of the priorities of cardiology. The Health Insurance Fund and the Cardiologists' Association will discuss the missing services once more this year. The review of this field has not yet been completed, hopefully this year we will be able to do so. Now I have the sixth question, but I can't answer it. I don't know what to do. Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu, can you advise me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U51	The Chairman of the Riigikogu recommends answering the sixth question in the course of answering additional questions, as there is no time limit. Now's the chance. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased to take this opportunity, because the Minister has today responded remarkably thoroughly to all the questions and I am also looking forward to answering the sixth question of this inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U53	Thank you very much. I'll answer question six. Question: 'The order of reference is set at the maximum allowed lengths (so-called reasonable time) during which the patient must be treated. How has the budget deficit and activities of the Health Insurance Fund for 2016 affected the length of the waiting lists compared to previous years, and in which areas have waiting lists increased and exceeded the allowed waiting lists? " Clearly, we are not currently covering 100% of the need for treatment. As a result, we have treatment queues. As far as the long-term financing solution is concerned, I have already spoken about this in response to earlier questions. Decisions will come in the coming months. I will now answer the question of how the queues have changed broadly. According to the reports of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, there have been no significant changes in the length of waiting periods in the last few years, the trends are broadly the same. In its nine-month report last year, the Health Insurance Fund provides the following information to characterise availability: Analysis of treatment queues by specialty, by health care facility, etc. is available on the website of the Health Insurance Fund. It's pretty thorough, and everyone can get to know it. Now, the most important findings. Longer waiting times in outpatient specialist care are specialized in eye diseases, internal diseases and rehabilitation. The field of ophthalmology has one of the longest waiting periods, with only 48% of the authorised maximum waiting times for the treatment order. One of the main reasons is that you do not need a referral from a family doctor to address an ophthalmologist. There is certainly a similar situation with the receptions of dermatologists, where there is also no requirement for a referral letter from a family doctor and the queues are long. As far as the dermatologists are concerned, we know that a few years ago the awareness of melanoma exploded and this has led to a significant increase in queues. All of the people suddenly wanted to show their birth marks to a dermatologist. It is, in itself, wise, but most of the birthmarks could be examined by family doctors and told which are the risk of melanoma and for which there is no risk of melanoma. As a result, we will also consider requesting a referral to an ophthalmologist and a dermatologist. In total, on the basis of the reports submitted to the Health Insurance Fund, they were registered at 1 October of the previous year with a total of 170000 applications for the first scheduled visits, 72% at the hospital of the public hospital network and 28% at other service providers. Within nine months, 70% of the hospital network development plan hospitals' initial scheduled outpatient specialist medical care visits took place within the maximum allowed length of the treatment queue. The share of these visits remained the same compared to the same period of the previous year. The longer trend is, of course, that Estonia reduces the percentage of inpatient treatment and increases the proportion of daily care and outpatient care. Thanks to advanced medical technology, it makes sense that patients are being treated as soon as possible and sent home instead of being kept in a hospital like a hotel for weeks. This is medically certainly justified and reasonable. However, innovations in recent years are likely to limit the volume of inpatient treatment for some time, and so we see a small need to increase the volume of inpatient treatment this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U54	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for these answers. But I'd like a few details from you. First of all, we know that the health fund's results went very negative last year, and in nine months, I think the minus was EUR 31.8 million, which is much higher than forecast. Can you say anything about the year after all? Where have we finally moved to? And another clarification. You spoke about the measure concerning the digital registration office. Could you be more specific about when we really get to this digital registration office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U56	The issue of digital registration will be discussed tomorrow at the e-Health Strategy Council, which has been convened by the Ministry of Social Affairs, where we will set a precise timetable. The development is underway, and I'm not going to have an exact date here today, because it's pretty much up to partners. We can prepare this technical solution, it is not too complicated, but of course it is necessary for health authorities to adopt it. We very much hope that, in the foreseeable future, it will be possible, with the participation of a particular hospital, to start with it and then expand it to a nationwide level. To answer the first question, it is not possible to say the final result of last year today, because it is only this week that health care providers have started submitting over-invoicing to the Health Insurance Fund for the second half of last year. They will be available in the coming days and then a general picture can be obtained. As far as today's forecast is concerned, when the end-of-year forecast was about EUR 31 million minus in August, I think we will reach a minus of EUR 20 to 25 million. This is partly influenced by a certain reduction in overwork and, on the other hand, by a slightly better collection of social tax in the first months of the second half of last year. It came back a little worse in the last few months. So minus should be between 20 and 25 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U57	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U58	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have two questions. You mentioned in your presentation that you are trying to develop a model of sustainable healthcare financing together with the Ministry of Finance by spring. Question: why don't you involve the relevant institutions, practitioners, to help broaden your eyes? And the second question. I understand that your political position is that people's own involvement, for God's sake, must not be increased. But do you not think that we will continue to seek to address the consequences above all if our system does not make a significant contribution to prevention? You actually gave a good example of melanoma. In the long run, it is more useful to have a doctor review them. Given that we are experiencing an increase in labour shortages and an increase in retirement age, should we not contribute more to preventive action?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U59	The treatment system also provides for prevention. To a limited extent, it is dealt with by the Health Insurance Fund, in particular in the form of various screening studies, but in particular prevention activities in the field of health are concentrated in the Health Board, where it is dealt with in some respects. However, as a general course, the cheapest treatment prevention is, of course, and the cheapest treatment case has been avoided. That's pretty clear. Concern, or rather not concern, but the specific nature of prevention, is that it is necessary to bear the cost immediately, but the effect that comes from the potential cost of non-receipt, which is higher, will make itself felt later. Last year, the new drug, which treats people with hepatitis C very effectively, broke up the Health Insurance Fund's budget with a million dollars, and that's a bad thing. But it was not taken into account that if we can cure chronic hepatitis C in humans, we will avoid a lot of medical costs in the coming years. As regards the proposal to carry out analyses with specialists, this has been done. As I have already said, the last analysis, which was submitted to the previous government, has been carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund, the Hospital Association and several other parties. International expertise has also been used. So the wide picture put together on the basis of various projections is actually together. What we are currently working on together with the Ministry of Finance is the exact solution to the financing system that the income base of the Health Insurance Fund should look like in the future. Both the decline of the working age population and the ageing of society must be taken into account. We're finishing the details of this right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U60	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Do you have any information on how much increased use of specialist services has been paid? After all, the services provided by the Health Insurance Fund are underfunded and the queues are long.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U62	If by "you," you mean the Ministry of Social Affairs, yes. If you mean me personally, I owe you an answer right now. However, these statistics do exist. Broadly speaking, the overall volume of health care not covered by health insurance has not exploded. I believe that the proportion of paid medical care in certain specialties may have increased, especially in those specialties which are outpatient and relatively cheap for the patient, and where there is a very long queue for health insurance-covered receptions. An example is a dermatologist and an ophthalmologist. More complex operations are very costly and, of course, the development of private medical care is hampered by the low purchasing power of people. But yes, I do not rule out that the number of paid visits by ophthalmologists and dermatologists has increased. I'm sure you can get the exact statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U63	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U64	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. I want to ask you about waiting times. First of all, you're probably familiar with the fact that a lot of people can't put themselves in line because there are no times. In my opinion, the available statistics are seriously flawed, and that is why we do not have a picture of how long the queues really are. Any idea how to get the right picture? And why don't you stop once you can just put two or three months in front of you and make sure you can register for an appointment in advance? And the second question, which concerns the same long lines. Very many serious patients who are seriously ill, who, even with guidance, do not have access to a doctor using health insurance, need to use paid medical care. Even if this succeeds between the two, there are no pay-per-views.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U65	I'll start at the end. As I said in my answer to the second question, healthcare can only be provided according to the order of treatment if the delay of treatment to a specified period does not lead to a deterioration of the patient's medical condition, does not affect the course of the disease and does not adversely affect the subsequent prognosis of the disease. All "time-critical treatment interventions" are always done independently of the order, the order of treatment does not concern such cases, it is an emergency job. As far as the overall picture of queues is concerned, of course, the current situation is not normal. As I said in my reply, we are developing a national digital registration project precisely so that we can get a proper overview of the treatment queues so that we know exactly that people do not register at multiple locations at the same time, that people do not register without a referral from a family doctor. On the other hand, we are developing technical solutions to help family doctors so that most of the medical work can be done at the level of a family doctor. This is particularly the case with e-consultation, which allows general practitioners to consult specialist doctors. You don't have to refer a person to a specialist. Of course, the easiest way would be simply to remove the time limit for ordering, but there is a reason for this restriction. And the reason is that, since the Health Insurance Fund concludes its contracts by half a year, the health authorities do not know how much treatment their contract provides for in the next period. That's how they keep a certain buffer so they don't break up with the budget. If they broke up with the budget, society would have a pretty serious controversy on the subject. Why is the Health Insurance Fund spending half a year? So that the budget does not break down or create too much social controversy. Well, that's kind of a systemic solution, isn't it? The current system certainly does not serve patient interests in the best way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U66	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U67	The next question is submitted by Jüri Jaanson, Madis Milling, Kalle Laaneti, Urmas Kruuse, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Valdo Randpere, Igor Gräzini, Johannes Kerdi, Jürgen Ligi, Ants Laaneotsa, Deniss Borodichi, Keit Pentus-Rosimkus, Arto Aasa, Terje Trei, Meelis Mälberg, Taavi Rõivas, Hanno Pevkur, Laine Randjärve, Liina Kersna and Anne Sullingu. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Reform Party have submitted an inquiry into alcohol policy. According to the plans of the new coalition government, since July this year, the excise duty on lean alcohol will rise by around 70%, as well as a total ban on alcohol advertising in the future. With the rise in excise duties, it seems to be aimed primarily at achieving fiscal objectives. The ban on advertising should guide consumer behaviour in a positive way, while the sharp increase in lean alcohol excise duties will change the proportion of lean and strong alcohol consumption and may lead people to prefer more strong drinks. Limiting alcohol advertising legalised in a number of European countries has not had a major impact on the reduction in consumption. For example, alcohol advertising in Finland has been limited in the last 15 years. Nevertheless, the consumption of beer has increased by 9% between 2000 and 2009. In Norway, advertising on alcohol on television is completely prohibited, while consumption under ban has been higher than before the ban. I would add that according to Statistics Estonia, the total consumption of alcohol in Estonia has gradually decreased in recent years. The Ministry of Social Affairs has set itself the goal of reaching a limit of eight litres per capita per year for the consumption of pure alcohol. We should get to that soon enough. So, in fact, there is a problem with changing the focus. The key question is whether people are not going to change their consumer behaviour. In total, we have seven questions to which we expect answers from the Minister in terms of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U69	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will be happy and happy to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U70	Thank you. I'd love to and gladly, but I'm afraid it's not so hard anymore. First, I will correct some of the inaccuracies in the introduction to the inquiry. The first point I want to comment on was that the new coalition plans to completely ban alcohol advertising. No, you don't! The Government of the Republic has in principle approved a draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, which aims to significantly limit the information contained in alcohol advertising. It shall provide an exhaustive list of the elements permitted in the alcohol advertising. But the booze ad doesn't go away. Producers will have the opportunity to introduce their brand, only lose the opportunity to advertise drinking and alcohol as a positive lifestyle. Second ground of appeal: the increase in excise duty on alcohol is intended to achieve fiscal objectives. No, you don't! The financial availability of alcohol is one of the most important drivers of alcohol consumption. This is confirmed by all scientific literature and confirmed by Estonian experience. The link between price and consumption in Estonia has been particularly strong. The main objective of the increase in excise duty is undoubtedly better public health, reducing consumption and thus also alcohol-related harm. However, as a positive side effect, additional resources are indeed coming from the state budget. The third argument, which was made in the introduction, was that changes could lead to an increase in the share of strong alcohol consumption. Alcohol policy aims to reduce overall consumption, both lean and strong. Scientists have reached the consensus that, from a public health point of view, there is absolutely no difference in the amount of ethanol consumed in ethanol. Therefore, it should be sought that the availability, price, display, promotion of strong alcohol should be limited and equally for lean alcohol. The current drop in alcohol consumption has been largely due to the smaller purchases of strong drinks. While the average volume of iodine in 2004 was 11.51 litres of absolute alcohol per adult population, the contribution of strong alcohol was 5.38 litres, beer was 4.19 litres, plus other drinks. In 2015, the contribution of strong alcohol had decreased to 3,63 litres, while the share of beer and wine had increased to 4,80 and 1,51 litres, respectively. In other words, the consumption of strong alcohol has decreased by a third during this period, while the consumption of beer and wine has increased somewhat. Now the claim that in several countries advertising restrictions have not resulted in a decrease in consumption. For example, Denmark, Norway, France and Finland were brought. Firstly, alcohol consumption is formed by the combination of several factors, which I have already emphasised several times. These factors are price, availability and advertising and are also the most effective containment measures. The general objective is to change a broader public attitude, i.e. to prevent alcohol consumption from being the norm in society, as it is now. However, this is not achieved by any individual measure, but by shaping the environment of alcohol consumption as a whole. We have been able to do something like this quite successfully in the area of tobacco policy, and we are going to continue with further proposals that foresee price increases, advertising bans, restrictions on indoor smoking, etc. We have now begun to see the results of this. For example, the popularity of smoking among minors has fallen: it starts later and smokes less, as there has been a change in the social standard. Smoking isn't popular anymore. Unfortunately, in the case of alcohol, it is still a long way to go. In these countries, almost all factors other than the country's alcohol policy have increased alcohol consumption. Alcohol prices have become more costly compared to incomes, and the common European market has led to both pressure on prices and an increase in product mix, as well as more advertising. Of course, the free movement of people has meant an increase in border trade. By the way, Norway is rather an example of how the ban on advertising and other measures have had a positive effect. At the beginning of the 20th century, Norway, Sweden and Finland started their alcohol policy from rather similar start-ups. All three countries have been forced to relax their alcohol policy, but they have done so to varying degrees: Finland, most of all, Norway, least. During the century, the order in which these countries appear from year to year in the table of alcohol consumption also developed. Finland is the largest consumer, Norway's smallest consumer, Sweden there in the meantime. These three then compete with each other, with no differences at all small. The average consumption per adult population in Finland is 10.8 litres, in Sweden 9.2 litres and in Norway 7.6 litres per year. In 1975, when the ban on advertising was introduced in Norway, the difference was only one litre with Finland, at present it is three litres. The increase in beer consumption in Finland can almost be fully explained by Estonia's accession to the European Union. Looking from Estonia, Finland's alcohol policy may seem harsh, but in fact it has been gradually liberalised throughout the 20th century, and after every step of improving the availability of alcohol, consumption and the number of accidents, crimes and damage to health have increased. However, in recent years, alcohol consumption in Finland has been steadily decreasing, indicating that, once other factors have stabilised, policies will produce results. Denmark is known throughout Europe for its rather liberal alcohol policy. In Denmark, for example, it is possible to buy beer and wine at the age of 16. Their advertising regulation is also quite mild. The French example is incomprehensible. In France, alcohol consumption has been on a declining trend for the last 40 years. Compared to 1991, when Loi Évin was accepted, average alcohol consumption decreased from 14.9 to 11.5 litres. The French National Association for the Prevention of Alcoholism and Dependencies, or ANPAA, has sent us a letter supporting our proposed amendments to the advertising law. The letter states that Loi Évin has contributed very much to reducing alcohol advertising abuse, alcohol consumption and alcohol related harm. In addition to the French association, the proposed changes to the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act have been supported by the European Alcohol Advertising Monitoring Centre EUCAM, the European Alcohol Policy Alliance Eurocare, the Nordic Alcohol Policy Network, the Lithuanian Alcohol and Tobacco Policy Chamber and many others. Now I will answer your questions. Question 1: "Which studies and analyses confirm the impact of alcohol advertising on consumers' exposure to alcohol consumption, excessive consumption and the attainment of alcoholism? In order to justify restrictions, planners have claimed that there are over 100000 alcohol addicts in Estonia. In what studies does such a statement base itself on? ' The Green Paper on Alcohol Policy and the draft Alcohol Act provide more examples of scientific literature on the impact of alcohol advertising. This area is, of course, very voluminous and it would be unthinkable to give an exhaustive overview of it here. But some of the most important examples, though. In 2009, the European Union Alcohol and Health Forum's panel of researchers formulated the following conclusions on the basis of the scientific literature at the time. First, alcohol advertising increases the likelihood that minors will start drinking alcohol and that those who already drink will drink more. Secondly, econometric studies have explained the impact of alcohol advertising on total consumption and it has been found that every 10% increase in the volume of alcohol advertising increases consumption by 0.3%. Econometric studies have thus been tried to relate the volume and quantities of alcohol advertising to society. The results are interesting, but it is difficult to conduct studies due to methodological problems. Thirdly, advertising seems to have a cumulative effect: in markets where young people see more alcohol advertising, they start drinking more alcohol. A meta-analysis of 132 studies carried out by Gallet and others in 2007 is very relevant from econometric studies. This analysis compared the impact of the various factors on consumption and identified existing, albeit modest, effects of advertising. As has been said, increasing the volume of alcohol advertising by 10% increases consumption by 0.3%, and this is precisely the effect of individual advertising. Experimental studies have also proven a more direct link between advertising and consumption. For example, an experiment was carried out at Radboud University where subjects were shown films together and without advertising alcohol. Those who saw the ad came more often to the refrigerator during the advertising break than those who did not see the ad. The study is available through Addition magazine. The title of the article is 'The effects of alcohol effects on drinking behavior in peer groups: observations in a naturalistic setting'. Longitudinal studies measure what econometric studies do not measure: the long-term impact of advertising. One good systematic overview of longitudinal studies is called 'Impact of alcohol advertising and media exposure on adolescent alcohol use: a systemic review of longitudinal studies', by Peter Anderson and other authorities in this field. 13 long - term studies around the world were considered, involving a total of 38000 young people. The conclusion is that young people who have seen more alcohol advertising have more positive expectations of alcohol consumption than those who have seen less of such advertising. Young people like this start drinking at an earlier age, while young people already doing so increase their quantities. Conclusion: There is, of course, no one-to-one link between advertising restrictions and consumption numbers, but there is reason to believe that science confirms that advertising restrictions have an impact on alcohol consumption in the direction of reduction, especially in the long term and especially in the case of young people. Now the number of addicts. Alcohol consumption cannot, of course, be classified as a risk-free addiction. Different patterns of consumption form a continuum with total abstinence in one part and strong dependence in the other. There is also small and high - risk use, and there are different borderline situations. In 2011, the WHO report estimated that 11% of men of working age and 2.1% of women of working age can be addicted in Estonia and 27% of all working age are over-exploited. According to the Health Development Institute, we have about 60,000 addicts. On the other hand, the Health Development Institute estimates that there may be as much as 300,000 people who consume alcohol above the low risk threshold. This assessment is based on the initial results of the screening. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. Half the men drank so much that it could have a negative effect on their health: they drink often and drink a lot. The second question is that, under my leadership, the Ministry of Social Affairs has set the goal of reducing alcohol consumption to less than 8 litres per person per year. And since consumption has fallen steadily in recent years, we should be expected to reach this target by the end of this year. The question is, since this is the case, why do we want to drastically increase excise duty and ban alcohol advertising completely? First of all, I would like to remind you that the aim of permanently reducing alcohol consumption in Estonia to less than 8 litres per capita was established by the government for the first time in 2012 when the population health plan was renewed and its implementation plan was adopted. The Minister of Social Affairs was then Hanno Pevkur and Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. In 2014, a Green Paper on alcohol policy was adopted, which also aims at permanently reducing alcohol consumption to less than 8 litres per capita. The Minister of Social Affairs was then in Taavi Rõiva. It is true that on average 8 litres is a realistic goal for Estonia in the short term. I think that we can reach the 8 litre limit by means of the additional measures that concern the advertising, promotion and excise duty concerned. However, it should be noted that this is far from sufficient from a public health point of view. The United Nations estimates that health care costs and risks associated with alcohol consumption are disproportionate in society if absolute alcohol is consumed on average at least 6 litres per year. So we still need a happy 25% reduction in overall consumption, but such an objective has not yet been set. I'd like to make it to eight liters first. It is a pleasure that consumption has indeed decreased slightly in recent years. In particular, moderate drinkers have retreated. This is confirmed by the fact that higher alcohol losses have remained more or less the same. The number of alcohol deaths has not decreased in recent years, although a reduction in alcohol purchases is expected. This means that moderate consumers have started to drink less than half, because of campaigns they have started to think more about their health, but unfortunately those whose drinking causes the most personal and social harm have not yet done so. In these cases, the most important factor is undoubtedly the price of alcohol, which we have planned to increase more vigorously with the new government. And here I come to the third question concerning the planned increase in alcohol duty. Indeed, we have set the goal of making alcohol relatively cheaper than people's incomes, but more expensive in the long run. Lately, lean alcohol has also become relatively cheaper than wages. By increasing the excise rates of lean alcohol, we can ensure that lean alcohol does not become cheaper for the population, which may lead to a reduction in alcohol consumption. Since my time is up, I don't have a lot of questions to answer. I ask you to answer them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U71	Unfortunately, time is limited, but it can certainly be compensated in the round of questions and answers. Now is the time for questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm not giving you that chance. I am, to put it mildly, a little evil at the excise policy with which you have created a major problem in border trade. The price difference between Estonia and Latvia is so great! You spoke with enthusiasm about all kinds of research. I would advise you to drive to Valka and find out what is happening at the border, what are the prices of alcohol in Estonia and Latvia, and what happens to the Estonian side of the country shops that squeak as a result of this price difference. With regard to advertising, I would like to raise one more question. In fact, Valka cannot drive in without being led to SuperAlko and Alko1000 stores. Could advertising restrictions also apply to alcohol shops?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U73	Thank you very much. I'm going to answer you, and then I'm still going to take this opportunity to answer the rest of the questions I didn't get to. But you had an appropriate question, which also concerns the European Union's common alcohol policy. It must be acknowledged that the European Union has been very weak in alcohol policy, for example, in the context of tobacco policy, it has been much stronger. Finally, the Tobacco Directive, which harmonised very strict requirements across Europe, was achieved. Uniform packaging requirements and quite high uniform minimum rates for excise duties across the European Union have been introduced. As a result, the level of border trade in tobacco products is significantly lower than in alcohol, although in some countries tobacco excise duties are still very low compared to those in other countries. Unfortunately, when it comes to alcohol policy, the European Union has not yet been able to act as a single punch. He has not been able to introduce uniform excise duties. While there are minimum rates for excise duties on alcohol in the European Union, the minimum rate for excise duties on wine is zero, the minimum rate for excise duties on beer is microscopic and, in fact, excise duties in different countries are exceptionally different in size. Consequently, the price of alcohol also varies greatly between countries. Of course, we know the state of affairs in the Nordic countries and also in Britain, where there is quite expensive alcohol, but when we look at the price of wine in so-called wine countries, we see that it is abnormally low. That's from a public health perspective. And in Germany, for example, where alcohol-related harm is quite high, as well as tobacco damage, the price of beer is one of the lowest in Europe. It is always possible to justify everything with cultural characteristics. In Estonia, they try to say that vodka is a national drink. At the same time, it is clear that alcohol is one of the biggest health risk factors throughout the European Union, but there is still no common alcohol strategy in the European Union. This concerns not only the harmonisation of excise duties, but also cross-border advertising, for example. For example, when we talk about advertising restrictions in the digital environment, which Finland, for example, has applied to social media, they have managed very hard to agree with service providers. The European Union's Audiovisual Media Services Directive offers quite limited opportunities to regulate cross-border advertising. I have repeatedly taken up these issues at European Union level and asked Health Commissioner Andriukaitis for a European alcohol strategy. This has not been proposed by the Commission. We will certainly bring this issue up during the Estonian Presidency. We are also holding a conference here on alcohol, and there are certainly at least two issues. Now I'm about to get an answer to the question. But one of the issues we are dealing with with with the Minister of Finance is the reduction in the quantities carried across the border. I will, for example, bring about 110 litres of beer for this so - called personal use. Well, if you'll excuse me for what kind of personal purpose it is every day, 110 liters! The second issue, of course, is the subject of advertising restrictions. Unfortunately, these joint decisions have not been taken on a pan-European basis. This is for the very simple reason that alcohol is loud not only in Estonia but also in other countries. But as long as it is not, we have, of course, tried to convince them that we have common interests in this matter in our dealings with the Latvians. We know that Lithuania will exceptionally increase the excise duty on lean alcohol by 111% from 1 March 2017. In the past, Latvia's main argument was that they could not be raised faster because they had Lithuania next to them. Lithuania is now lifting alcohol excise duty exceptionally, so Latvia does not really have any reason or justification why they do not want to protect their public health. It is clear that the price of alcohol in Latvian border shops and Estonian shops is beautifully different. Some of this is explained by excise duties, but by far not all the price difference. There are other reasons for this. The Ministry of Finance has also analysed why the price difference for some spirits is double, although the excise difference is some tens of percent. And it is not only South-Estonia or South-East-Estonia's country shops that are chirping, Latvian country shops that also close their doors. Latvians also go to these very border shops open for Estonians to buy alcohol. Of course, we're advertising these shops here today, too, and so they don't have to bet any cents on the promotion themselves. Advertising is done by politicians and media channels. Other shops, however, have to advertise and spend money on it. And, of course, these Latvian shops do not have to spend money to make their display more attractive. People go there for different reasons, not for a pleasant shopping experience. I've been talking to the IRS about all this and I'm really hoping the IRS will take care of it now. They have information about a few hundred drivers who carry 110 litres of beer and 10 litres of vodka to Estonia for their personal use several times a week. I wish we could stop this bull! This is purely the subject of the tax administration's procedural decisions. One might ask people what personal purpose it is if 110 litres of beer are to be bought several times a week. In the case of such large quantities, there is probably a real risk that local taverns and other catering establishments will supply Latvian alcohol in violation of their rights. That's what's going to form its main mass. The fact that individual people are driving and buying their two boxes of beer and a litre of vodka from Latvia is certainly important as an impression, but of course it is a microscopic part of the total amount of alcohol. So I'm not really afraid of these little purchases. As far as Finnish tourists are concerned, it has been said that there are six buses a day in Latvia. I'm not going to guess by heart how many percent of all the tourists coming from Finland make up a day, but it's a very small number. Finally, the impact of border trade, of course, is most affected by the purchase of strong alcohol, because it is easy to transport strong alcohol across borders. Beer is a very cheap product and it is difficult, so the problems of border trade across Europe are particularly connected with strong alcohol. I now take this freedom and answer the last four questions of the inquisitors. Question 4: 'The World Health Organization has pointed out in its study that if we could reduce early mortality by 1.5%, this would mean an increase of 14% in GDP per person in 25 years' time. Cardiovascular disease is the biggest cause of early mortality and prevention would be an effective tool. What links do you find between banning alcohol advertising and promoting health, and how can we reduce early mortality through the elimination of alcohol advertising? To what extent do you intend to channel the budget revenue from the planned increase in excise duty into health promotion and prevention? ' Firstly, the main behavioural risks of cardiovascular disease are alcohol consumption, smoking, overweight and lack of physical activity. Exaggeration of alcohol increases the risk of stroke, heart attack and other diseases. If we compare with another Europe, we are in poor writings in the European Union in terms of dying from cardiovascular diseases. The most important risk factors in Estonia are definitely tobacco and alcohol. Overweight is a growing problem, but not yet fundamental. In many other countries of the European Union, the majority is even worse than we are. Reducing the volume and attractiveness of alcohol advertising will help to reduce alcohol-related harm after 10, 20, 30 years and should also reduce morbidity and mortality, as shown in the previous studies. The Ministry of Social Affairs currently finances the "Kainem and Healthier Estonia" medical and counselling programme. This will cost EUR 10 million in the coming years. The hepatic alcoholic disease treatment programme is gradually launched as well as the Smart Parent programme for parents. There are other health promotion activities for children. We have, as we know, been campaigning against alcohol in recent years. Surely the best known of them is less than the 'Jome half! " The entire Estonian Foundation was organized. However, there are also a number of other initiatives, such as strengthening alcohol policy in local governments. Question 5: 'You have said in your interview that you see no reason to treat tobacco and alcohol differently. Through what arguments and analyses have you come to the conclusion that alcohol is as vicious as tobacco? " Both ethanol and nicotine are addictive, which is a brain disease. Both cause harm both to the consumer and to the surrounding people. In 2010, David Nutti and Les King's analysis of consumer and social harm caused by various drug addictions was published in Britain. While the most dangerous drugs are for the consumer himself, alcohol proved to be the most competitively harmful to society as a whole. In this regard, alcohol is a feature of the fact that a large part of the damage may fall not on the drinker's own, but on the sufferer's side. Examples include alcohol - related crime, road deaths, fire deaths, domestic violence, and many other social problems. Every year more than a thousand people die from alcohol in Estonia. In 2015, 26 people died in a traffic accident, drunk themselves, 14 people died and 215 were injured by a drunk driver. Thirty people died in a fire accident, drunken, 15 drunken drowned and 22 fell to death, 17 died in an underheating state, 58 were killed under the influence of alcohol. The negative impact of alcohol on Estonian society will undoubtedly not fall under tobacco. Question 6: "What is the impact of a sharp increase in lean alcohol excise duties on consumer behaviour? Is it possible that people who consume lean alcohol are subjected to excise duties to the use of strong alcohol? " As has been said, alcohol policy aims to reduce all forms of alcohol consumption. The relatively high price of drinks reduces their intake and is increased by the fall in prices. Not only will the excise duty on lean alcohol be increased this year, but the excise duty on strong alcohol will also rise from 1 February. So both rise at the same time. We are helping to get the excise duty on lean alcohol to a level so that lean alcohol does not become relatively cheaper. Thus, the competitiveness of strong alcohol is not improved in the eyes of the buyers, as the price of strong alcohol is also rising. And the last, seventh question: 'The explanatory memorandum to the Law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act 265 SE draft states that there are 300,000 excess users of alcohol in Estonia and nearly a quarter of Estonian children aged 13 to 15 live in a family where alcohol is abused. The main objective of eliminating alcohol advertising is to reduce the access of young people to alcohol, according to the draft. What additional measures do you think should be taken to keep these children away from alcohol and the influence of the surrounding environment on alcohol consumption? ' It's quite complex, but a good question. Of course, children's drinking is influenced by the social context, as is the general context of children's other patterns of consumption. In particular, the family has a very strong influence on the development of consumption habits. Therefore, if we are to protect young people, we must also deal with adults. When a third of our children say that they live in a family where they drink a lot, it is very difficult to radically change the patterns of alcohol consumption only when dealing with children. Is a drunk mother or father normal for a child, or is it rather something that is exceptional at home and that is condemned in the family? This is undoubtedly an issue that cannot be solved by one simple national regulation. But the state has organised activities specifically aimed at children, both through the education system and under the 'Targa Parent' programme, for example. Using the latter, we also train parents. Speaking more specifically about children, as has been said, they have the greatest, most long-term impact of restricting alcohol advertising. This is how attitudes are shaped outside the family. As has been said, family is important, but of course other social contexts work. When it comes to concrete measures aimed at protecting children, the draft proposes control purchases. Now it is forbidden to sell alcohol to a minor and to transfer it to a minor, but it is very difficult for the police to ensure this. In essence, the only option is when a policeman happens to see how a minor is sold alcohol. Of course, this is not an effective regulation. In the future, if the draft is approved, at least 16 years of age can be involved in checking purchases. Basically, he can go to the store and try to buy alcohol, and if he is sold during a control purchase, the merchant can be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U74	Let's get back to the questions in the hall. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I noticed that you have marked the plan of the Tax and Customs Board to amend the regulation concerning the amount of alcohol produced across borders. At present, the limit is 110 litres of beer and 10 litres of strong drinks, which are more than 22% alcohol, as well as 40 litres of wine or something like that. Are you sure you are aware that in European countries these standards are basically the same in all countries? Hence two questions. Do you want to bring Estonia to isolation now? However, you sometimes blame another party for this. Estonia's standards would be several times stricter, as our thresholds would be considerably lower than in all other countries. And how much would it cost to ensure this border control by the Tax and Customs Board? Have you figured out what that amount might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U76	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. I guess you didn't notice what I said, or I was talking too fast or crazy. This is, of course, a European regulation on the transfer of alcohol for own use, and this is an issue that needs a pan-European solution. Unfortunately, the European Union has not tightened the common alcohol policy for a long time. In my opinion, however, this would be both practical and reasonable. I have spoken with the European Commissioner for Health, Mr Andriukaitis, and also with the Estonian Minister for Finance, to take up this topic at European Union level during the Estonian Presidency. The aim would be to amend and reduce the maximum quantities allowed to cross borders in Europe. I have already said that since, of course, this process takes a long time, like the implementation of all the changes in the European Union, I have also turned to our tax administration to assess the situation at the border. We know that some vans carry 110 litres of beer, 10 litres of vodka and 40 litres of wine for their own use several times a week. In fact, we have a feeling that it will reach the shelves of Estonian catering companies. It's a violation of the law. And this violation can be monitored and limited.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U77	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You say that increasing excise duty reduces alcohol consumption and improves public health. Then why are you screwing with a few percent? Double the price for beer, double the price for the vodka, the public health is clearly improving! Only I have a doubt that there will be a dozen more next to the six Valka liquor stores in Latvia, and I guess I won't be able to get home on weekends along this narrow road.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U79	Of course, excise policy is one of the most effective ways to reduce alcohol consumption. But, of course, there are limits. The border is in two places. First of all, there's a risk of secret alcohol. If the price of legal alcohol is increased too sharply, the share of secret alcohol in Estonia will increase, which has been stablely small in recent years. The second risk is the increase in border trade. It is quite clear that both excise duties on alcohol and tobacco must be introduced with these two aspects in mind. In the case of secret alcohol, the biggest influence is precisely the price of strong alcohol. Loose alcohol doesn't move much under the floor, but it can grow into a black market for strong alcohol. And, as has been said, border trade can also be increased by increasing the price of strong alcohol. Consequently, according to the Ministry of Finance, the excise duty on strong alcohol should not be increased faster than the previously agreed rate, as this would lead to the realisation of these risks. The normalisation of border trade, however, naturally requires European minimums to be agreed. This has not been done so far, and we have seen its impact for the last 12 years when Finnish tourists have bought a lot of alcohol home from Estonia, and in the last year, it has been reflected in the campaign to buy alcohol from Latvia. As has been said, Lithuania has decided to significantly tighten its alcohol excise policy, and I hope that Latvia will do so in the near future. So far, these decisions have not been made there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U80	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U81	Thank you for your answers, Minister. You guys talked a little too fast, I didn't catch everything, but I'll be able to read the verbatim later. I disagree with you in relation to alcohol and tobacco, because one can be consumed in a way that is neither harmful to itself nor harmful to others, but tobacco is well known to be harmful to itself. But what I heard was the key to keeping young people away from alcohol. You said there was a lot of work done with the information campaigns. To what extent has the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, carried out these campaigns? Do you have an overview of this, and do you have anything to talk about future plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U82	Thank you. Firstly, in comparison with alcohol and tobacco, your argument is correct, I can only agree with that. It has also been said by the WHO that if tobacco products were to enter the market today, if they were not already legal, but were to enter the market as novel products, the WHO would recommend to its Member States not to legalise their sales, as there is no essentially a safe consumption limit for tobacco and tobacco is a highly addictive substance with serious health consequences. In the case of alcohol, WHO would not make such a recommendation. Alcohol is also an addictive drug, which poses a health risk, but the WHO would not recommend it for the simple reason that, in principle, there really is a safe consumption limit for alcohol. This level of safe consumption is, of course, much lower than in most European societies, so not only in Estonia, but in most European societies 'is accustomed to consuming. If we look at studies to see how the likelihood of disease is increased by alcohol consumption in one amount or another, we can see that 2 to 4 alcohol units alone, or a few bottles of beer per week, increases the risk of very many diseases several times. I have read a specific study on invasive breast cancer and it was argued that alcohol consumption in rather small quantities, a few or three beers per week, increases this risk several times. But it is right that there is a safe consumption limit. That is also why we have introduced a different regulation for tobacco. But broadly speaking, the limit of alcohol safe consumption is so low that otherwise this analogy is correct. On the other hand, as I said, in the case of tobacco, we are talking primarily about damage to human health itself. The society will pay for it later through the health care system, but the smoker's own health will be affected first and foremost. In the case of alcohol, a large part of the damage is social; someone else suffers from alcoholism. As far as the various programmes are concerned, we have devoted a great deal of resources to them over the last five years, including the Norwegian State's money under a cooperation agreement. With the help of the Norwegian state, for example, the whole Estonian Foundation programme 'Joome half as much has been funded! '. We've launched the 'Targa Parent' program that I've already talked about today. I am not in a position to take specific budget amounts now, but they are certainly easy to find on the Internet. We have also talked about finding additional money to expand social advertising in the future. There's something going on this year. The main steam, however, goes to an alcohol treatment program called 'Sober and healthier Estonia'. However, more information could certainly be done in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U83	Minister, there are no further questions for you. One oral question is allowed in this round. Jüri Jaanson, if you wish to participate in the negotiations, this option is currently in place. I see I don't. Then I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U84	Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild have submitted today's latest draft on the intention to amend the laws governing gender change. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U85	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, For all the good years I've started! We tabled this inquiry again on behalf of members of the Conservative People's Party Group on 19 December, as the initial inquiry was returned to the wrong addressee and had to be submitted to the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. In short, the content of the inquiry and its motivation. In November of the last year, Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Social Protection, agreed on the intention to amend the Civil Status Act and, in this connection, the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act. The aim was to increase people's ability to change their gender identity according to their perception. Based on the information that was made public in the public media, we have asked five questions. The first of these is: 'How far has it been given to implement the intention to develop and to prepare amendments to the laws? " Second: " Why has the Ministry of Social Affairs had to deal with issues that are intended to change current practice in changing gender identity?! Third: " Based on what information does the implementation of this intention improve Estonia's international reputation? Does the current regulation not respect human rights and Estonia is violating the Convention on Human Rights? ' Fourthly, which Member States of the European Union have been exemplary in reducing the regulation of the change of gender identity? " Fifth: " Which minister of the Ministry of Social Affairs first coordinated this intention to develop? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U86	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer questions for questioning. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U87	I also answer that question. First of all, you have referred in your inquiry to studies that you know that 75% of gender changers are unsure of what they want, and nearly half will regret their gender change later. Knowing how little research has been done in this area, it would be good to know what the studies are. I'd love to get to know your records. According to our statistics, most transgender people do not want their former sex back, and the gender identity of transgender people is no less permanent than that of heterosexuals. According to the World Professional Association for Transgender Health, 87 to 97% of transgender individuals who have undergone medical intervention do not regret their decision. Given the high risks of medical intervention, the satisfaction is very high. Indeed, there are isolated cases where medical intervention has led to a deterioration of the person's health and problems or complications in the medical change of sex and the person has wished to restore his or her former biological sex as well as his or her former legal sex. But these are isolated cases. Now I'm gonna answer the questions. First of all, 'How far has it been granted to implement the intention to develop and to prepare amendments to the laws? ' The intention to develop the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and, in connection with it, the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act and the draft law itself is in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which requires the Minister of the Interior to answer this question. We simply sent our comments on this document. Secondly, 'Why has the Ministry of Social Affairs had to deal with issues that are intended to change current practice in changing gender identity? ' Pursuant to § 2 of the Statute of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry is governed by the coordination of equal treatment and the promotion of equality between women and men and activities in this field. For the purposes of the Gender Equality Act, transgenderness is a gender-related factor, and related less favourable treatment is discrimination based on gender. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that gender identity is a personal matter, which concerns the right to self-determination. You ask why the Ministry wants to change the current practice of changing gender identity, but the state does not have a practice of changing gender identity. Social identity is a personal matter and concerns the right to self-determination. The state cannot and must not intervene in this, but it must ensure that the relevant regulation is based on the right of the person to determine his or her gender identity and that everyone has a decent life. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has called on the Member States to guarantee the rights of transgender people by providing them with identity documents reflecting their chosen sex without prejudging any medical procedures, such as sex change surgery or hormone therapy. The European Court of Human Rights has taken the same view in the case Y.Y. versus Turkey. Thus, although the State must ensure that the data are realistic, the entry in the register does not change the reality. For example, a person does not become a man when such an entry is made in the register, but the register is brought into line with what a person's perceived sex is. The third question: 'What information does the implementation of this intention improve Estonia's international reputation? Does the current regulation not respect human rights and Estonia is violating the Convention on Human Rights? " The short answer is yes. The current regulation does not really respect human rights and Estonia is violating the Convention on Human Rights. Referring to Article 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Court of Human Rights has concluded that gender identity, or gender definition, is the sense and subjective experience of a person's own sex, and it is important for the country to recognise the sex of a person, based on its own knowledge. On 22 April 2015, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution laying down guidelines on the reduction of discrimination against transgender people. Point 621 of the resolution calls on Member States to ensure rapid, transparent and accessible procedures for trans-sex change. Question 4: "Which Member States of the European Union have been exemplary in reducing the regulation of the exchange of gender identity? ' Based on fundamental values such as the right to self-determination and the right to protection of privacy, Malta, Denmark and Ireland have changed their regulation. These countries have changed the regulation in such a way that there is a separation between the legal and medical process of gender change. A change of gender in the register shall be sufficient for the person's own wishes and a statement to that effect to be made to the relevant authority. None of these countries have observed harmful consequences. This is where Estonia has taken into account the practice of these countries. Question 5: "Which minister of the Ministry of Social Affairs was the first to coordinate this intention to develop? ' In addition to other proposals, the Ministry of Social Affairs proposed that changes in the person's gender data in the population register and other documents should not be preceded by a change in the person's medical sex. This intention to develop was agreed by consensus between both ministers at the management meeting held at the Ministry of Social Affairs on 17 November 2015. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U88	There are also questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U89	Thank you, Minister. I admire your ability to speak with open-face and frankly tell stories about some kind of change in gender identity and the right of transsexuals to define themselves in one way or another. You have read to us a number of radical left-wing ideologies that have been written down by radical politicised bodies, such as the European Court of Human Rights, but that does not change reality. Human gender identity is not fluid, fluid. People are born either male or female, with very few exceptions, who may have a medical problem, that they do not have gender traits that we consider normal. If someone feels any different, they won't change it. And the state should not encourage people who are so confused in their heads to go on with their confusion, but should offer them a completely different kind of help. Well, let's say medical help, not the kind you're talking about. Do you really think that the Estonian state is obliged to treat these people like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U90	Your position is very clear, but unfortunately it runs counter to the best scientific approach available today, which is certainly acknowledged by a very large number of people, both in Estonia and elsewhere in the world. The distinctive feature of Estonian is that we do not distinguish between biological and social sex, which is distinguished in English by two words: gender and sex. It may have created a confusion in your mind about the birth of humans. In fact, sex is not directly related to biological reproductive organs, but has two aspects: one is biological and the other is social, which is largely socially designed depending on cultural and other historical circumstances. But, of course, you are entitled to your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U91	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U92	Dear Minister, You stressed the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was taken in April 2015, if I remember correctly. I myself am a member of this entire Estonian delegation. There are 47 countries, while Russia's membership is currently temporarily suspended. There are very many statements and very many documents, the content of which is from wall to wall. The humor, however, is that very few decisions taken there are really being implemented in the countries. Rather, it's a nice club with a warm atmosphere where people talk about how you're doing and how I'm doing, and they make statements. You will certainly monitor how much of this specific decision has been taken in the Member States, in these 47 countries. How far is it for other countries to defend these so-called pseudohuman rights, like Estonia, which is very progressive and progressive in the protection of human rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U93	I mentioned three countries: Malta, Denmark and Ireland. Of course, whether or not to comply with the recommendations of the parliamentary assembly resolution is the choice of constitutional institutions in each country. More important than that is undoubtedly the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which refers more directly to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Estonia has acceded to this Convention and that means that we have made certain commitments. Whether or not to transpose this regulation is undoubtedly the choice of Estonian constitutional bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U94	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. For the first time today, I heard things I've never heard since I was quite mature. The sex of a human being is self-determination?! Well, that's very interesting! It's too bad I've never known or thought of it before. But here's my question. Are all the procedures that you now think about in connection with gender change also cost the state budget, or is it too early to ask how much additional costs might be at the health insurance fund, which is not enough money to treat sick people? And a little note to this, too, I'll see, I've got a little bit of time. Usually people have intervened when they define themselves as a god or some as a dog. There have been such definitions in life. But it's different with sex change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U96	Thank you very much. I guess a person learns every day. Indeed, social perceptions change. Our collective knowledge of the world is constantly increasing. One or another phenomenon is being studied and the perceptions of certain processes are changing. It was once thought that women would not be able to participate in elections because they were not real people. Some people at the time may have also said exactly that in my mature age, I have discovered to my surprise that women are actually quite human. Such learning has been a great deal in the history of the world. I guess we're all developing and still moving in that direction so we'd know more today than we knew yesterday. As has been said, the peculiarity of the Estonian language is that it is more difficult to understand this particular subject because the Estonian language does not distinguish the social and biological aspects of the sex. There is a difference in some other languages. Social identity studies, including gender studies, have a very long history in themselves. This is not only about transgenderity, it is also about heterosexual sex identities, women and men. In this, too, we may not have the same vision until the end, which is the role of man and woman in society. But there is nothing wrong with it in itself when people disagree on one or another social issue. Well, time will tell. As far as costs are concerned, the content of this proposal is that we do not link biological procedures to legal gender issues. And you could say it's more of a simplistic procedure. At the moment, we expect preventive biological procedures, such as hormonal therapy, to change legal sex. I find this unreasonable and, in future, bureaucracy and possible costs should be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U97	Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U98	Thank you. There are people in the world who believe in all kinds of things. Some believe the moon is made of cheese. Looks like the left-hand liberals won't be able to learn what you say they need. It is enough to remember what was taught at school: the difference between a man and a woman is in the chromosomes. And it's enough to look in the mirror and go to the maternity hospital to find out that human salt is really related to sexual organs. If you don't believe me, ask any woman how babies are born. Men will never be able to give birth. But you and Tsahkna have told the press that this is not a security threat. If it is now possible for any man as often as he wishes, even twice a year, to change sex, what happens if a whole group of men who do not want to do military duty report that they are girls from tomorrow? Is this not a clear security threat to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U99	I don't know what kind of data you operate with if you say you can change sex every six months. As far as I know, this regulation has not been developed. Maybe the Ministry of the Interior is working on it. You have to ask them. We pointed out that we need to reduce the link between biological procedures and legal procedures in order to distinguish between biological and social sex. The format of the enquiry obviously does not allow for any further discussion in order to clarify this properly. Judging by all the questions, I realize that the difference hasn't quite arrived when they're talking about a maternity hospital and all that. But it is certainly difficult, in a bureaucratic sense, to avoid risks when developing such a regulation. It is also likely to be difficult to avoid the risk of gender change due to specific benefits. But given the weight of this decision and the impact on the person himself, his social relations, it's unlikely that it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U100	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You've warned the Reform Party about the eulogy. We would warn the government of socialisation, because all you're saying is total Marxist socialisation. Of course, it is embarrassing that the minister is giving us demagoguery. I would ask who has given the European Court of Human Rights a mandate at all, a mandate to decide on the gender of people. That's a very interesting question. Who has given them a mandate to judge the sex of men? But I also have a specific question. Can you explain to me what social sex is? Is your sex socially designed and you're not really a man? Are you really a woman who just socially designed herself to be a man? Or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U102	If you're accusing me of demagoguery, I'm still asking you to give such a weighty accusation, not just go on about it. But in answer to the question of who has given the European Court of Human Rights the right to take decisions on human rights claims against countries in the context of guaranteeing human rights, I suggest that the people who have created the Human Rights Court have done so. You can read the statute of the European Court of Human Rights, and you will probably be much smarter in this regard. As far as social sex is concerned, it is what English is about the gender. There is a whole separate field of research, entire faculties, teaching departments in many European universities, where the study program has gender studies. As has been said, this research has little to do with, or it has only the edges to do with transsole. This is precisely what has to do with the construction of social gender. In answer to your rather peculiar question, I will explain that, in general, it is indeed the case that the biological and social sex of most people coincides, but in all societies there are a certain number of people whose social and biological sex do not coincide. These are quite tragic stories, I suggest you meet them. I'm looking at people laughing at it, but it's a serious story. I think it is certainly reasonable for a country to treat these people in a decent manner and to allow them to organise their lives reasonably as members of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U103	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U104	Good manager! Good minister! As a biologist, I'm curious to hear all this. However, many people feel like Napoleon's dog or an old god, and some people feel like having sex with children. In cases such as intervention. Counsel is sought from the insane doctor or the prosecutor's office intervenes. My question is how many such people there are in Estonia. How many men in Estonia would want to be a woman and how many women would want to be a man? What is the size of the group for which this development plan has begun?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U105	Thank you. Your first remark repeated the mark of one of the pre-questioners, I think it's completely inappropriate. As has been said, there have been periods in history where there have been many social phenomena that were later found to be a perfectly normal social situation and there is no medical abnormality. Homosexuality is certainly one of the anomalies that have been recorded in medical diagnosis guides as a psychological abnormality until it was found that it really does not have any substantive medical reason. This is a pure socially designed reluctance to adopt certain social behaviours. It is understandable that some people are critical of other people or of some forms of behavior. In society, it is still the case that some people behave the same way and others behave differently and criticize each other. Yeah, it could be like that. But just because I don't like the way a member of society behaves doesn't mean I'm calling him deviant or asking him to turn to the medics. There is also deviant behavior, of course, but today's subject is not covered. You ask how many potentially transgender people or people who have identified themselves as transgender in Estonia, but legally representatives of another sex. We don't know that. Since this is a very large taboo in Estonia, people rarely admit it. I can only tell you how many people have applied for sex change with a medical procedure and hormone therapy. These persons have been in the past six years 36.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U106	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have a short question. How many ministries have already given their 'yes' to this bill and how many ministries will still have to be approved? How far away is this bill now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U108	Thank you. I repeat: this is a draft that falls under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the Civil Status Act and the draft amendment to the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act, linked to it, with the drafting of the draft law. The Ministry of Social Affairs simply gave its input into this draft concerning the rights of transgender persons. In other respects, it is handled by the Ministry of the Interior. How far away are they with it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U109	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U110	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say, the head explodes at the absurd talk I just heard here. This is, of course, the usual radical cultural Marxist doctrine that the Minister has now introduced. The following area is now being taken up, where society is being demolished and normality destroyed. In the old days, we knew that the Soviets thought poverty and wealth were designed, more specifically socially. Well, there have been all kinds of social constructions here, such as ethnicity, that's a fictional thing. Now, the next imaginary thing to fight is the real sex of a human being. Yes, we have 30 or 40 people in Estonia who are so confused that they do not know whether they are men or women, or they would like to be someone else, just as poor people probably want to be rich. And to this end, the government has begun the next attack on normality and calling abnormal normal. My position is absolutely clear: the Social Democrats are the devil. Just like that! It's just creepy what they do. I'll ask you simple questions first. What does the minister say to those women who are gonna get into the bathroom by men who declare they're women? What does the minister say to those teenage girls in their school before their sports class, the teenage boys in the dressing room who declare that today they feel that their social sex is a woman and that they now want to sit in that girl's locker room? It's pure social construction, dear girls, get over it! Or what do parents whose kids get close to candy and talk about social construction and say I look like a 40-year-old man, but actually, I'm 6 years old and we're playing here now. It's so twisted! It's so twisted, it's just disgusting! And if anyone is going to appeal to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, please stop! There's a crazy Marxist parade! If anyone tells me about the European Court of Human Rights, he has never been given such a mandate, which the Minister has just spoken about here. It's pure usurping power that the red robes have done. They have never been given such a mandate! The original purpose of this court was to resolve people's complaints against countries when it is clear that the national judicial systems are either so closed or so corrupt that it is not possible to obtain a right when they go through national courts. Never has the European Court of Human Rights been granted the right to impose absurd, harmful, dangerous, hateful, extreme left ideas on countries, such as gender neutrality or social construction. That's a sick text coming from here in a row! It degrades normality, taunts normal people, and aggravates the complaints of sick and abnormal people against a normal functioning society. If anyone thinks we don't understand that we have people who have really big problems, why can't we? But these people aren't helped like that, they need to be helped in a different way. When we talk about gender change as some completely normal procedure, even in this regard, the intention of starting completely backwards on behalf of the government has been put forward. First of all, these people must be psychologically counseled. If it doesn't work, they'll go on hormonal therapy in at least other countries. Once this phase has been completed, medical intervention will take place. And when all these things are done, the person will also be given a new passport with a new name and a new sex. But they're just trying to give us a passport! I do not know whether it is some kind of rhhepapapapal trick, that this is how we have received a little letter, that we have implemented the recommendation of the European Court of Human Rights, or that it is imagined that this is what is needed. I don't know, I don't understand. The minister comes to tell us that the whole world is full of universities and every university has a bunch of research institutes and disciplines that deal with it. Yeah, we know that all the higher education in the Western world is doomed because it's crawling with pseudoscience and pseudoscience. Let's see what happened at U.S. universities after Trump was elected! People hysterically organized group weeping because the result of the election was not in harmony with their constructed world. They refused to believe that there were possible alternatives other than the ones they had invented in their little head in some closed university campus. It's an attack on crazy people who can handle reality. We just don't have to let go of our ears again and say, okay, we'll give you what you want. We have to help these crazy people somehow. But madness isn't helped by giving them a passport that says you have a new sex now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U111	Mart Helme, please! Hopefully, there will be more discussion in this speech than personal attacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U112	I have to start with the complaints. Firstly, I cannot agree with the President-in-Office if he tries to put thoughts and words in his mouth for a speech by the Member of Parliament and claims that there was no discussion of the subject in the previous speech. In the previous speech, there was a very thorough and very clear approach to the subject. That's one. No President of Parliament can dictate anything to any Member. I would ask the Presidents to remember this. Secondly, I have a very clear complaint to the minister who has appeared before us. The minister has left. The Minister has shown his contempt for Parliament and probably for our party, our group, by the fact that he has gotten out of here as a popular expression. It's a very clear demonstration of mind. We will undoubtedly appeal to the Prime Minister and to the Parliament's Bureau: it cannot be the case that, at the time of the Minister's inquiry, he decides that he does not care what Members say in their speeches. He just doesn't care! He's pointing at the middle finger! In this way, things must not go to a parliamentary and democratic state. If this is the custom of a new government, I really want this new government to remain as short-term as possible. But let us come to the subject. The subject is very serious. We fully understand that there are people who have problems with being either men or women. And this isn't a construction. It's psychology here, it's psychic, it's hormones here, we know that hormones are essential components in the identity of the sexes. Someone here pointed out, Henn Põllaas, that he could look up the school's biology textbook, that they were talking about chromosomal aberrations and stuff. There's nothing to do with construction, but there's a certain deviation. Let's not say the word 'variety' is somehow malicious or incriminating. It's just the way it is. Someone was born a woman, but after her teenage years, she feels that the man's world is actually attracted to her and that she'd like to be a man. Got it! It's understandable. And it is also understandable that these people must be helped. It is understandable that these people must not be discriminated against. But what's incomprehensible is that the government wants to make it some kind of helping these people, I can't say, a neo-Marxist left radical project. That's what the minister was selling us! I don't remember whether there's an interesting article in today's Postimees, yesterday's or the day before, trying to figure out what extremism is about in society. And on the basis of some studies, the author of the article concludes that extremism is how small a part of society, a few percent of those who support some kind of thinking, declares its thinking the only right and starts to impose it on the rest of society, where, for example, 30 to 70% of people do not want to adopt this ideology, this view, with power. This is what we see today in Estonia. A trivial minority, representatives of a group, ideologies of a political party impose on the rest of society values or values that are unacceptable to the lion's part of society. That's what we heard here today. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U113	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U114	This is the most authentic left extreme that is being imposed on the people, even though the majority of society does not accept it. And not because the majority of society is intolerant, but because the majority of society thinks that different, more peaceful ways must be used to solve the problem, which does not traumatise the rest of society. But we are offered the traumatic ways of society, and this is extremism, the most authentic extremism. And now, to conclude, unfortunately, the minister let us out of here, I want to talk about demagogy. It is once again so characteristic of the extreme left. When we talk about gender identity, gender change opportunities and that we consider the way that we are now being sold to be suspicious and unacceptable, we will be told that women have never been able to rule, that it was ever and never was. Yeah, someday I might have picked up a big malaka and used it against those of you who are talking about this extreme left. I don't do that these days. Indeed, society is evolving, society is clearly humanized. Society accepts new values and bears down some old ones, but all of this must be an evolutionary process, not by anyone, by some ideology to society with power, 'I forbid, command, hang, and let's be imposed in style. Now we see in Estonia a handful of neo-Marksists, who are concentrated in the Social Democratic Party, trying to teach the whole nation, to stick a puppy in a puddle somewhere and say that you see, this puddle is actually the right thing. In short, they make a pile in the middle of the room that stinks, but then they blame the whole nation for saying, "Hey, friends, what you did stinks! " No, it's your fault, you think it's a bad smell, actually it's all the right thing! It is a beautiful sculpture, it must be taken to the exhibition, and this smell is not smell at all, it is a good smell! That's how far we've come. This is totally unacceptable! The Estonian Conservative People's Party, which is neither extreme nor extreme or radical or intolerant party, fights against such left-wing radicalism with all its strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U115	As Chair of the sitting, I promise to explain whether the Minister had good reason to leave our sitting and so to waive his right to the final word. As for the comment on the manager's style, I can assure you, Mart Helme, that I did not have the least of my desire to lay down any rules. It was rather an older colleague's suggestion to talk more about the subject and less about personal attacks. However, this final decision is always for members of the Riigikogu. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U116	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take up the final words of the good Presidency. The question is not that the minister has the right to give up his final word or answer to the members of the Riigikogu. The minister has a duty to be before the members of the Riigikogu, to answer their questions and questions. It's not up to him. What is happening in this Chamber today and what is being pursued behind the scenes is the most typical left-liberal ideology. The target is normal European traditional values: family, marriage, love, children. All of this is to be vulgar, to be demolished, and not to be offended by saying that there is no need for a family to have a mother and a father and no gender at all if there is no such thing. Ossinovski here made a difference between gender and sex. Okay, some left-liberal retarded scientists somewhere in pink universities can do that. But the easiest thing to do is to open up Google Translate, and you can see that both words are "sex." Sex is not a fiction that we can choose for ourselves. It's provided by nature, it's established by chromosomes, and if you want, old God. But the girl will be a girl, the boy will be a boy, the man will be a man, the woman will be a woman. No matter how many soccer, left-hand liberals, or marginal sexual minorities may want to change sex, it cannot, except by surgery, which is completely abnormal and unnatural. The strength with which Ossinovsky protects these various wrongs is also astonishing, just as the law of partnership was protected. We were told that huge masses wanted it, that they needed it, that it was their human right. But how much has it been used? During this period, which has passed since the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, just over a year, only 50 couples have made use of this opportunity, and the further on, their number has been reduced every month. Today Ossinovsky himself couldn't tell us how many transsexuals we have, queers, I don't know who would like to change sex every six months on the conveyor method. I'm sure their number is negligible. But in the name of these few people with certain mental disorders, they are prepared to divide society, create enormous opposition between the state and people. It is clear that people experience what the left-wing liberal government is forcing them to do, as a force of the state. It reduces people's loyalty, people's love for their country, when the country acts like a perverted roller who makes a man a woman and a woman a man. The big problem is, for example, who are the queers, who one day sense that they are bisexual, and then again that they have no gender at all. How do you solve their big problems? So, what can they sign up for? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U117	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U118	And how are children who no longer know whether their mother is a mother or a father? It is clear that this is extremely traumatic to children's psyches. You don't know what to say to your friends, you don't know what to say at school when they ask you, you don't even know what to do at home, because you don't know if you have a mother or a father or if you have some god knows who and how many more to do. So it's actually part of a wider attack on a normal society. This opportunity to change the sex, which has now been launched by the IRL and the Soviets, has not yet been heard how the Centre Party feels about it, but probably favorably, is part of a major attack, the other elements of which are the Gay Law and the Istanbul Convention, which, in the same way, are trying to push us through and which, in the same way, calls different swamps fiction. It is a left-liberal revolution and an attack on normality, and thus on the duration of a normal society. Such a society is unsustainable, such a society will perish, if not otherwise, even because this society no longer has a place for future generations, there is no place for children. Ossinovski hoped that people would be able to learn. I express a very, very weak hope that the left-wing liberals can still learn and reason. As I said in my question, you could recall what the school textbooks say about X chromosomes and other things that define gender. If they don't know what kind they are, let them step in front of the mirror, look, touch with their hands, ask their mother how they came into this world, whether they were born by their mother, or by their father, or by God knows who. And forget all these perversions! We know the world is full of people like that. There are those who want to legitimize the incest, who want to legitimize the zoophilia, who want to make love to cars, or who want to lie with nature. The plejads of such sick people are endless. Actually, it's medical, psychiatric. Can we still serve every madness that comes to mind in the world as a normal and human right to some disturbed person and impose it on the whole society? Of course we can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U119	The rules governing the procedure for replying to an inquiry are laid down and, in this sense, Mr Põlluaasa was partly entitled to the Minister's answer to questions, both written questions and questions from this Chamber. However, it really turns out that he is not obliged to be in the Chamber when there is a debate. Finally, he would have the opportunity to speak again. But formally, the minister didn't break the rules. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U120	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of coming here, but listening to this debate as a biologist who has also been involved in sexual behavior, I have to intervene. Each species has a norm and there are limits to the norm. What's outside them is called a deviation. We heard from the Minister that these unfortunate people are not even sure how many. There are men who feel bad about being a man, and women who feel bad about being a woman. There are men who want to be women, and there are women who want to be men. There are many unhappy people, at least from society's perspective, unhappy people who would like to have sex with children, animals or, I'm sorry, the dead. It's their natural attraction, they want it and they don't get excited. In normal, however, a normal man is sexually aroused by a woman and vice versa. But there are all kinds of wild pranks, the Lord's Zoo is big and the letters. It is said that now a person who wants to turn himself into a man or a woman into a man is free to do so. You don't have to ask the doctor or specialists anymore. However, when a man gets excited when he can approach a child sexually, the prosecutor's office intervenes. In Soviet times, when a man approached a man sexually, the prosecutor's office intervened. At least in the Republic of Estonia, this is no longer the case. So, in fact, what is the norm and what are the limits of the norm, the inclinations, and the inclinations of trouble? There's always a lot of unhappy people, people aren't the same. We heard that even the minister doesn't really know how many men we have who feel unhappy about being a man and women who don't want to be a woman. Thirty-six years from now! These are six unhappy people a year who have so far dared to come out of the closet. Yeah, the hat off to the minister that he's started it up with the intention of being developed the way he's supposed to be. It takes a lot of work, effort, and money. Every human being is valuable, as are those men who want to be women, and women who want to be men are valuable. But aren't we doing fine-tuning now, just like the Reform Party did in Taavi's Clothes? For each person, its own law, while dealing with the concerns of the so-called 'normal' people should be much more important. For example, how can normal pensioners receive a normal pension? How can many not have to work for three years in order to receive one year's retirement? It's like fooling people! How can we ensure that families have more children? There should also be plans to develop drafts for this purpose. It is as if more thought should be given, above all, to how the average person can cope. At the same time, I should not forget them, but I would use the word 'deviants'. We should not forget those unfortunate people who can be one or two. You should think about them, too. But above all, we here should still think about those who are most. Most men feel good about being a man, most women feel good about being a woman. Most men like women and women like men. But I stress that unhappy people are always and should also be thought of. But first of all, you should look at the big picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U121	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U122	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, as little as you are here! It is true that according to the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Act, the Minister does not have to be here until the end. He does not have to listen to our speeches, and he may also give up his opportunity to respond afterwards. It is simply a question of political culture, which, to some extent, characterises the Minister's personal attitude towards the subject area, Parliament as a whole, a certain political group, a certain political party. But let it remain a problem for his reputation. In my opinion, we have no reason to be surprised that the representatives of certain political culture are very one-sided, especially the extreme left. Our group member, Mart Helme, mentioned an article published today in Postimees on extremes. This is a very useful article about Art Johanson's pen, who is a senior researcher at the University of Tartu and an analyst at the analytical company, who also conducts topical research. The article pointed out that, in Johanson's view, a group of people or interest groups with a share of less than 10% in society could be regarded as extreme. Thus, if we take topics that fuel passions and polarize the people in society, then, generally, there are interest groups behind them that make up a lot less than 10% of the total population, so they can be called extremists. In the same way, we can call extremists those who are trying to liberalise everything, whether it is the possibility of gender change and the legislation that includes it, the abolition of the medical control requirement or the introduction of a social structure. People have a free choice to feel either like a dog or a cat, as a representative of the opposite sex, or as a third. I think this is one of the trends that characterise the present Western culture at all. It is rooted in the last 30 to 40 years and can be talked about for a very long time. The question now is rather political: do we want to continue with the trend that other countries want, in particular, in Western Europe. In Britain, a nice man married a car a few years ago, a Volkswagen Bug because he loved his Bug so much that he felt the need to marry it. Do we want to accept this trend? The Liberals in the Left are trying to take into account all the feelings, all the wishes, all the people we have in society. But in fact, never will all people be happy. There are always people who are dissatisfied and who don't like it. This is the inevitable, and I think that sane people, who are the dominant majority of society, understand that there is no need to change laws and bow down to any kind of anomalies. People with tolerances need help. They need help and must not be discriminated against, discredited or mocked. The task of the Ministry of Social Affairs could be to help these people psychologically so that they can exist in our society as people of full value. The Minister could not answer a question concerning six months. I would like to remind you that the Minister should be aware of what is contained in the documents he is signing, because they are of very high weight. According to the intention of the same document, the Civil Status Act and the related amendment to the Population Register Act and the State Fees Act, the Ministry of Social Affairs, by consensus, then proposed that Margus Tsahkna and Jevgeni Ossinovski be replaced every six months as a social construction. For example, if a person submits an application on 1 January, at least six months will be dealt with, the person will be allowed to wonder if he or she feels like a member of the opposite sex or not, and then his or her sex will be changed during the summer. However, he may return the application, and by 1 January of the new year, he will be able to be a man or a woman again. I'm asking for a few more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U123	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U124	It is therefore clearly stated in that document as a single proposal, and it has all been signed by Mr Ossinovski himself. The Minister also dared to give examples of universities that are very dangerous and slippery. We can find examples in our home country that the curricula of certain universities are very much influenced by political ideology. At times, faculty spread misconceptions among our young generation. For example, I can mention the University of Tallinn, where, in the course of a study programme, students are told each year that multiculturalism helps to strengthen national statehood. I think that every person understands that this statement contains a major contradiction. It is not reasonable to say that any extremism could preserve our fundamental values as a result of the Constitution. But it's taught. If I look at the curricula and faculty at this university in the first place, it cannot be said that it is an institution offering high-quality higher education. It is about spreading a highly politically biased ideology. Similarly, there are universities in Saudi Arabia that are accepted around the world, but where Sharia laws are taught. Many universities are sadly characterised by a tendency to support certain ideologies depending on the country or political regime. So we can't take them as the monopole of truth. I also touch on the concept of demagogy. Demagogy is clearly what we are talking about, in parallel with women's right to vote, the 'non-disease' of homosexuality. We can talk for a very long time about how the World Health Organisation removed it from the list of diseases in the early 1970s, which preceded what lobbying pressure groups did in the form of massive campaigns. But it doesn't undo the fact that no one has so far determined whether it is an inherited abnormality, or whether it is environmental. No one knows why a person can become deviant. And as long as we don't know it, we can think of it as a psychological abnormality in which a person needs help. As regards women's right to vote, we could ask Mr Ossinovski how we know that all the women were who could not choose. Maybe there was a lot to do with the transgender in the 18th century, and maybe there were also so-called multipolar individuals. I think that such discrimination should not be allowed by the Minister of Social Affairs, who belongs to the Social Democratic Party. This is certainly one of his discriminatory steps, which I regard as deviant and sickly. Finally, however, this is our fundamental values. According to a study by the Institute of Social Studies, 90% of the population supports the protection of nationality and culture. One part of the culture is also a healthy society where women are women and men are men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U125	There are no further requests to speak. We have also exhausted the question of this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-09_U126	It is now possible to register for speaking in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please! I see there's no wish. I thank you for your contribution to the work and, at times, for the heated debate in this sitting, which is, in fact, a very important part of our work. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Closure of the sitting at 6.30 p.m.
