ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the V plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the resignation of Riigikogu member Liisa-Ly Pakosta, Tarmo Kruusimäe joined the Riigikogu on 2 June. Let's hear his oath. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U3	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U4	Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Congratulations also on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group to the new fellow. As we know, § 27 of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act determines what kindergarten place fee can be, which is currently up to 20% of the minimum wage. On the one hand, the minimum wage rate has increased every year. This year it will be EUR 430, next year it will be EUR 470. At the same time, however, the place fee for kindergarten is automatically rising, which is currently 15% of the minimum wage in the city of Tartu, 12.2% in Tallinn, while only 7.5% in Paide. This is the cost that parents must do in any case. Due to the unequal situation across the regions of Estonia, the Conservative People's Party Group initiates a legislative amendment according to which the place fee for kindergarten must not exceed 10% of the minimum wage. Starting from the third child, the parent should not pay the day-care allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U6	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Congratulations on the 160th anniversary of the consistent press in Estonian! The Estonian people have always believed in their press. Seven members of the Estonian Free Party Group read the Postimees newspaper on 31 May and believed one of the messages published there. On this basis, these seven members submit an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science, Mrs Reps. As we know, the government coalition is planning to approach the problems of Estonia in a regional policy way. With a view to regional policy, the Minister of Education and Research has proposed to move from Tallinn to Tartu Foundation Archimedes Youth Agency, to close the Estonian Research Council's office in Tallinn and to transfer the Estonian Youth Work Centre to Tartu. At the same time, employees of the Ministry of Education are wanted to move from Tartu to Tallinn. Our questions, which are six, concern the effects on family life of the Ministry of Education and Research, as the institution that determines the policy in question, the effects on the organisation of work, etc. The main question is: what is the benefit of all this for Estonian science and education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U8	I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. We'll get them through to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! This week's agenda contains two clarifications. First of all, in agreement with the respondents, Mikhail Korb, Minister for Public Administration, has proposed to add a second item to today's agenda, which would be an inquiry on the role of local governments in protecting the population, presented on 3 May. With this, it seems, everyone agrees. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to exclude 18th item from the agenda of the Wednesday session of this working week, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on district heating initiated by the Government of the Republic. Any views on that? Martin Helme, is there anything you want to say about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U9	No, it's not. I'm sorry, but I wanted to ask you about this question. Am I right to remember that this is a question for our group?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U10	This inquiry is submitted by Ain Lutsep, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsep, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel. Now it's a question of who's 'we'. I guess it's not you. Everyone agrees with the first proposal, and probably the second one. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 17th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U11	Let's start according to the approved agenda. First of all, an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U12	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to read the question of the members of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which is directed at Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. It is borne by deep concern about the position of the Estonian language in Estonia. Since 1999, we regularly hold a mother tongue day and talk about the importance of the Estonian language and the preservation of its position. But reality is completely different. In many places all over Estonia, including more and more in Tallinn, it is difficult to cope with Estonian language. On the Internet, we are faced with Russian-language ads and not only there, but also in the city photo. In ministries and other institutions, it is possible to cope happily with the Russian language without the need to speak Estonian. In courts too, due to the current left - hand government, other languages can be handled. It's kind of a broader background. In particular, however, we want to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs about bilingualism in the official ministry information campaign. The Ministry of Rural Affairs sent out press releases in Russian in connection with the day of the open fishing ports in Estonia on 29 April. We have four questions. 'Why is the Ministry of Rural Affairs as the government institution of the Republic of Estonia, where the official language of business is Estonian, sending out Russian-language press releases to the Estonian media? Why does the Ministry of Rural Affairs consider the Estonian language skills of the addressees so scarce that the latter do not even understand a couple of sentences of press release? How does this behaviour of the Ministry contribute to improving the knowledge of the state language of society and to enhancing the image of the Estonian state and language? Will the Ministry of Rural Affairs, led by the Centre Party, pursue a hidden bilingual policy to attract its Russian-speaking voters before the elections of the local government in autumn 2017? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U13	The question is answered by Minister Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U14	President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the questioning of the questioning. Thank you for reading the questions, too. I'll have it easier. Answer to the first question. The official language of Estonian state institutions is Estonian. Press releases are also sent out mostly in Estonian, but if necessary, in English or Russian. Information from the state institution must reach the people living in the country by means of the most efficient method possible. This is the point of any state communication. For this reason, the websites of many public authorities are in three languages. Examples include Riigikogu, Government of the Republic, Ministries, Tax Administration, etc. Press releases are also made by the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic and the ministries in three languages as required. It's been that way for years. All major Estonian media groups also have their own Russian-language editorials and publications. For example, please refer to Postimees rus.Postimees.ee, Delfi rus.delfi.ee and the national broadcasting network ETV+, which is known to be funded by taxpayers' money and which is a public Russian channel. Point two: The Ministry of Rural Affairs respects all journalists and does not think that their knowledge of the Estonian language is scarce. However, making a press release in English or Russian will help to spread information more quickly, if necessary. I reply to Question 3 that, as has already been mentioned, the purpose of the state's communication is to reach the people of Estonia in the most efficient way possible, including those who do not follow the Estonian media. It is generally good practice for the Ministry of Rural Affairs to send press releases to Russian journalists in Estonian and sometimes, if necessary, with a Russian translation. And question number four. The Ministry of Rural Affairs doesn't run a cloaked bilingual policy. It is not appropriate to highlight the Ministry of Rural Affairs in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U15	Questions for the Minister. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U16	Thank you. You're the least qualified minister I've ever seen in my questioning. But some things got really scratched in the ear. One thing is who decides this need. And the other thing is which one do you consider more important? Do you consider it more important that the Estonian state is in Estonian and that the authorities, companies, journalists accept it and use the Estonian language every day so that the position of the Estonian language is unshakable, or do you consider it more important that any press statement from your ministry reaches some target or interest group in a foreign language? We're not really talking about bilingualism anymore. You also pointed out that we already have trilingualism in Estonia: English, Russian and only then Estonian. Do you not think that government institutions need to use a higher standard, set an example, demonstrate demandingness and do things only in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U17	Thank you for the compliment that I can respond very briefly and specifically. I've never really liked bullshit. But in answer to your question, I say we start with the right Riigikogu, which is a legislative body, where information goes out in Estonian, Russian and English. But who's gonna make that choice? We have a Public Relations Department at the Ministry, and to be honest, I found out about that press release after the inquiry got to my desk. If you think that the Minister is organising the expulsion of press releases and decides on the language in which they must be, then you are not on the right track. But yes, the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu are starting to adopt this attitude, and in the ministries it is ruling in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U18	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U19	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You will probably misunderstand the duties of the Minister's office if you say that the Minister's business is not to be aware of the language and content of the press releases going out of the house. By the way, I've been working at your ministry while it was still at the Ministry of Agriculture and I know very well that there were daily meetings with press representatives and other people in the press. It agreed what message was going out and who was doing what. If you do not fulfil this requirement of political leadership, you will have a gap in your professional activities. That's one. Secondly, our Constitution absolutely states that the official language of Estonia is Estonian. The fact that we have multilingual websites from which information about institutions can be obtained is another question. Our language law says that things are done in Estonian. Don't you think you're violating both the Constitution and the Language Law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U20	I guess different ministers work differently in the ministry. Honestly, I haven't led to the fact that I'm coordinating press releases that go out of the house. I'm not gonna decide what language they're gonna be sent out in. Otherwise, I could take the place of these people and take their work completely away from them. Press releases are also made in the Riigikogu; they are made in the Government of the Republic and in most ministries. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has now issued a press release on the day of open fishing ports. As we know, fishing, Lake Peipsi and seaside areas are associated with a large number of Russian-speaking populations. We just wanted to inform them better. I do not think that this was in any way contrary to the language law and that we are thus implementing a policy of bilingualism. Different ministers operate differently. I don't coordinate press releases, I don't decide which language to send out. I repeat: I found out about this Russian press release when you submitted this inquiry. I thank you for your questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U21	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U22	Thank you. It's very sad when the minister says he has no idea what's going on in his ministry. But the official language is Estonian and in Estonia the official language is Estonian. What about the fact that we also have certain media publications in Russian? If you and the Ministry you run do not consider it important to maintain and strengthen the position of the Estonian language at all, is it your aim to extend this attitude to other ministries as well? Contrary to your claim, multilingual websites are not in all ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U23	I am hardly such an influential minister that I would extend my activities to other ministries. That is a unfounded compliment, I do not think I will have that effect. But, Mr. Põllaas, we would like to begin with the Riigikogu of which you are a member. Perhaps the Riigikogu will remove all Russian-language messages from the website if you find that they are excessive so that people of Russian nationality should not be informed about what is happening in the Riigikogu. If you start here and the Government of the Republic joins it, this initiative will reach the ministries as well. But because of one press release, I do not understand that we are going to implement bilingualism in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U24	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U25	Thank you. Thank you very much for your attention. We will certainly take this question up. But when I look at the current government, I can see that we have a great deal to do with the current refugee policy. If I understand you correctly, soon, perhaps in six months' time, we can expect Arabic messages to go out of the ministry as well. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U26	I don't know what you mean by the refugee policy. I know that refugees do not like living in Estonia very much. The number of people who have lived here is very small. Rather, we should be concerned about why these people do not want to live in Estonia, not because there are many of them here. It is as if you have data that there are very many refugees in Estonia. I don't have that information. I do not know what the current new government will do differently than the previous one when it comes to refugee policy. I do not know that we would have triggered any additional incentives for refugees to come to Estonia. Perhaps the best incentive and refugee policy would be if Estonia's life were to improve and people wanted to live here, because social benefits are large enough, etc. This is the most important thing for refugees. We still have a very long way to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U27	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The point is, when I came to this meeting, I saw that Mart Helme, a esteemed colleague in the hallway, was interviewing in Russian. That's one cool thing! I understand that since they gave in to this question, he's made a lot of progress in his development. Point two is that today we can make it clear to our colleagues that a press release is not an official matter. This has nothing to do with the press release. But the question I have for you is, did you get what you wanted now? Are you happy that you're a minister, standing here with a white shirt and a tie, and you have to answer questions that are at the level of pitecantrobe thinking? And as a minister, you can't point out the fact that the Stone Age is long gone and say that people, look around, the world has changed a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U29	As far as becoming a minister is concerned, there is one thing that I note from the sidelines when I look at this hall. That's how politicians change. They're changing overnight, and it's cardinally. Those who previously raised taxes rapidly are now criticising the fact that the tax has been raised. You remember who raised alcohol duty and fuel excise. You remember who deprived farmers of transitional support, and now we are told from the hall that you should probably learn the economy. It is as if these people do not understand that one of the pillars of the economy, including competitiveness, is a level playing field. This may be the best example of how people change according to the situation. For myself, I think I've been able to stay what I've been. Of course, it's more appropriate to judge this side by side. But becoming a minister has not been my life's dream. You know how it happened. But I'm always willing to help my party and my team. I hope I don't let them down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U30	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U31	Thank you. Good minister! Mr Stalnukhin almost asked the question. I, too, saw the Chairman of the EKRE here, before the meeting, giving an interview in Russian at the door of the hall. And when you look at EKRE articles, there are a lot of them available in Russian. My question is very simple. You made that press release about the day of the open fishing ports and informed people to come and see these things. EKRE people publish Russian - language articles exactly the same way they do their propaganda. Is this a hypocritical activity of EKRE politicians?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U32	Thank you. I gave this interview in Estonian because the reporter who took the interview from me was very well able to ask a question in Estonian. So there was no problem for me. In general, I think that if I do not feel confident in some languages, it is wise to give an interview in English. Last week a high-level delegation from the Euro Parliament visited Estonia, led by Antonio Tajani, who is Italian from nationality. The night at "Actual Camera," we saw him interviewing in Italian. Nobody resented that he didn't speak English. But yes, politics change. The Centre Party is accused of providing different information to people of different nationalities. It is probably the same in the case of EKRE: Russian is spoken in Russian and quite different. It's their choice. In general, if people feel good about themselves in a foreign language, they can, of course, use it, but I think that, above all, you could still speak Estonian. But if you just need to inform people, I don't see anything crazy about it if you do it in their own language. We wanted to let people know that they would participate in the event. Perhaps Estonian acquaintances will also be found at such an event, with whom you can speak Estonian. This will ultimately benefit us too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U33	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Well, it turns out that there's a story about sitting in this room, and then there's a different story about the remote. That happens, too, in your case. But that's it. It is still a question of the national language. Maybe it's a big mistake that we're still going down this one road. This part of the people who are not Estonian will never be Estonian. The Estonian language is not much recommended, as everything is also available in Russian. Don't you see a little problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U35	However, I think that the taxpayer has also contributed to solving the problem. Think about who will fund the ETV+ channel, who will pay for the Russian-language announcements of the Riigikogu and the government. If you'd like to finish them too, we'd talk to you differently. Let's try to get started here when you say that this Russian information is a good reason. We have no possibility or reason to close our eyes to the fact that we have so many people of other nationalities. Why many of them have not learned the Estonian language is the subject of a longer discussion. I also think that if we had started teaching Estonian to a new generation in kindergarten or primary school 20 years ago, we would not be facing this question today. Unfortunately, by now, this time has passed, and we have not taken the right measures. You have to learn languages when you're young. I see it on my own, and I see it on my relatives who are studying elsewhere in Europe. They have been able to learn several languages before the end of comprehensive school or upper secondary school. It has to be done from a young age. Those who learn some languages from the old age are, in my opinion, very good people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U36	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Your answers are like a rush hour of humor. I'd like to laugh, but I can't because you're a minister. And it's just a little embarrassing. You are talking about various auditoriums and slandering Conservative People's Party, even though your government ministers are giving Sputnik interviews and making noise on 9 May about some kind of end of the war and the release of the Russians. You lie to one auditorium, you tell one story, you tell another story to another auditorium. Here you are talking about some kind of better distribution of information to the Russian audience. You are talking about the channel ETV+, but more than half of its audience is Estonians. Mr Stalnukhin, who was talking about some kind of development here in Mr Helme's case, but I say, you know, there's such a great proverb that you feed the wolf as much as you want, still looking towards the forest. That's true in this room too. But my question is, how much power do you have there? We don't expect you to go somewhere outside the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Social Affairs and start commanding-shooting-poms there. Are you saying that you have no right to decide what your press officers are sending out and in what language? That you're just looking at the fact that they're making press releases in three languages? You don't have any power, do you? Then why are you a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U38	Thank you for a good question. I'm sure the Minister will be responsible for everything. You can count on that. And I'm not gonna dodge that answer. But the principle of controlling the activities of all employees every day is simply not part of my management strategy. I trust people. If anyone should fail in any way, I'm sure he'll be punished, but I'm supposed to check everything every day, not every day. Maybe you have this kind of management strategy, maybe you think you need to check everything, so nothing can happen without you. I guess that's different driving. I've been in charge for nearly 30 years, and I have another strategy. I trust people, of course, to the point where you can trust them. But as far as Sputnik is concerned, I don't know. Sputnik is not mentioned at all in today's inquiry, and the Ministry of Rural Affairs has not given Sputnik any interviews.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U39	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U40	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! I was gonna say the same thing you ended up with: talk about it! If there is a desire to ask for an understanding of another matter, then let them ask for an understanding of these matters. But to the good colleagues on the left side of the hall, I say, yes, maybe some people are talking about one and the remote from the other, but you are talking about one in the hall and one outside the hall. I have heard, too, and not only today, but also before many of your interviews in Russian. It is certainly a good thing that we make such a communication in several languages. After all, Kalapäev is an event for a wide audience and it is nice to be made available in Estonian, Russian, English and perhaps other languages, such as Finnish. Then there will be a large number of people. But my question is rather rhetorical: do you not think that such enquiries are, in fact, ridiculing the Estonian language as a national working language?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U41	I must not teach the members of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu have the right to do one thing and ask for what they want to ask. As minister, I have to answer them as much as I can, and my powers promise. There is also an opportunity to ridicule the Minister, as some of the heirs are trying to do, that is their right. But I understand that, and in any case, I respect those people who ask questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U42	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I recently spoke to a group of school students in Kohtla-Järve and most of them were Russian. Their teacher immediately drew attention to them, telling them that in the Riigikogu we are still speaking in Estonian. If any single person doesn't understand, I'll tell them in a few words what you're talking about. This showed the teacher's approach to the course of education, he really wanted to draw attention to the fact that the Estonian language is still our official language. But I want to ask you this. Our questions are motivated by the fact that we feel that in the last few months, when the Centre Party has been in power, the use of Russian has increased considerably. Do you agree or disagree with this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U44	I don't know that. Each claim must be verified, it must be based on something. I can tell you that there has been a single press release at the Ministry of Rural Affairs that went out in this form. Whether this is now the beginning of a new wave of Russification or the transition to Russian, it remains up to every nationalist. A single press release that was very interested in people who are involved in fisheries and maritime affairs, and that is what bilingualism is about and I do not know where the Centre Party is going. Well, what conclusions are these?? I have already told you that every nationalist has the right to his or her opinion and to ask questions. And I will answer those questions. But I don't share your approach. Let me give you a concrete example: I gave an interview today in Estonian for the "Actual Camera," Mart Helme said he gave it in Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U45	There are no further questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Thank you, Tarmo Tamm! I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U46	Dear Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The minister complained a couple of times about what you're doing about this press release. We're not talking about a press release, we're talking about attitude. We are talking about the attitude of the current government to the use of Estonian language and the parallel use of other languages in Estonian state institutions. This attitude is no better than in earlier times. On the contrary, we constantly hear how information should be shared in Russian, English and I do not know which language is yet. Listen, there are 190 different nationalities in Estonia! There are over 3,000 languages in the world. I'd really like to know where the border is. If we want everything to be as well informed as possible, how many languages are we going to hold our public authorities? I think that there is, as the laws say, only one language in the Estonian state, in which it is Estonian. And if we live under a government that thinks that this one language is not enough, and says that we have here for some reason, and let's not get too close to the reason why they're here or how they're here, just a lot of people who don't speak Estonian, and you have to take them into account, then in fact, this government is fixing the situation that arose because we didn't have one job in 25 years. Thus, the government does not create any motivation or pressure for people of foreign origin to adopt and use the Estonian language. But it's up to the government to do it. The Estonian state must be in Estonian at all levels. I completely agree with the Minister. I find it inappropriate that the website of the Riigikogu is also trilingual. At the same time, I would make a clear distinction between internal communication and foreign communication. However, the home page of the Riigikogu is also read outside Estonia. However, according to my understanding, the press releases of the Ministry of Rural Affairs are primarily intended for the Estonian audience, no matter what language the audience is looking for. There's a fundamental difference. In addition, I would remove these hideous Euroflags from the White House of the Riigikogu. I would like there to be only Estonian flags, as they were at the beginning of the composition. Someday, the Euroflags suddenly appeared there too. But unfortunately it's not up to me, it's not up to us! But it is up to the minister to do what language his ministry is working, what kind of signal he sends to the public, to all the people of Estonia, and what kind of policy he pursues. And that, as we said in our inquiry, is not just a matter of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It thrives everywhere and on every level. We have accepted that in Estonia you must speak several languages for people to understand you. No, you don't! Hell no, you don't! It is an Estonian state, it is an Estonian state for Estonians! Everyone else might be good here, but the Estonians must be good here! And if we cannot manage in our own country in our own language and we have to be some kind of polyglot, something has been done wrong. But the minister doesn't even want to understand it! Of course, this is a problem for the whole government in general. We also heard the Socialists happily speak here to weaken the position of the Estonian language. For example, I refuse to give interviews in Russian. Of course, first of all, because my Russian is so poor that I would not be able to do so, but I do not, in principle, speak Russian in Estonia. Just don't talk! And I can assure you that Mart doesn't want it either, but the journalists are asking him to do an interview in Russian. We're smarter! As the leader of the group, I will forbid him from doing so in the future. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] We set an example, and please follow this example! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U47	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, A colleague here called me a wolf. I'm not a wolf, I'm more of a bear than the one we talked about here recently. There's no Masha next to me, but I'd rather be a bear. The wolf is you, gray, and gray in every way. I've had students like that. I taught Estonian for 11 years. I had a total of two and a half thousand adult students and vocational schools, too. I had a group of thugs like that there. I went to the principal's office all the time in the first quarter and asked him what Estonian language class you were talking about. They have an atestate after 8th grade then they studied eight more compulsory classes and then went to a vocational school three, four, five, or even six two, you can imagine! The director said you were paid to teach them life, not to learn Estonian. And then one great day my wife had her wallet stolen at the Narva market and she cried horribly, and there was all her teacher's salary in it. It was a terrible tragedy. The next day, I went to work in a really bad mood, and I was told solemnly that some people came here and brought some wallet, I think it's your wife's wallet. Your picture's inside, they recognized you and they picked you up. I realized they were the same thugs I worked with. What I'm saying is, I can't inculcate a normal, humane, civilized attitude to you, but maybe something stays on. I still have that kind of hope in spite of everything. It is not that a Russian-language press release went out of the ministry, although there is one. You talked about the need to teach people. The Ministry of Tarmo Tamme published very good educational material: there was an original interview in Estonian and there was a translation of it. This is what is needed to learn Estonian. It's didactic material! What have you done for it? I do not believe that the interview that Mart gave at this door in Russian will be translated into Estonian. It doesn't even get that good, does it? When I was still pre-school, I sometimes asked strange questions. I forgot them myself, but sometimes relatives reminded me that once you asked me why parents were always on the first floor of the mall where toys were sold, all the time saying we'd buy it on the way back and then always forget about it. Then I said, "Why do I have to wear ten warm things when my mom's cold?" What the fuck is this?! Or why is it that when a black cat runs across the street, it's bad, it's something like a curse, but when it runs back, it's not. So he's gonna take this curse down? What if he doubles it instead? And I have this childish question for you right now: why did you follow this press release? Who will see you when you come up with this? Ministry of Rural Affairs, in Russian-Estonian, but that's what everyone does! I have a huge archive that stores the materials of all political parties operating in Estonia in Russian and Estonian. Anyone who has applied in Narva, anyone who has applied in Ida-Virumaa, will release them, including the most patriotic ones. I will see how you will behave and what you will do in all the next elections in Lasnamägi or in Ida-Viru County. Then I'll remember it, I won't forget it. But the question I have for you is this. Soon, Estonia will be holding the Presidency of the European Union, all right? Riigikogu officials go to English all the time. Here comes my half a thousand bureaucrats, I have seen it in Latvia, I went there when the Latvian Presidency was held. This is how these bureaucrats go from one country to another, and officials in these countries suddenly begin to study English with great care, even though it is already completely absurd in the case of us in England, isn't it, in fact, practically, no longer in the European Union? And they still learn English! Why don't you do this? What if the half a thousand bureaucrats who come here learn Estonian before six months? That would be a wave! Now, that would be a bang in Europe if you demanded it from those who come here, not from those who pay taxes in Estonia, living here the rest of their lives. These bureaucrats are gonna be here for half a year. I think it's a very good idea! I'll give it to you. Get on with it, maybe it'll work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U49	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U50	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We will then start answering questions that Mr Stalnukhin asked very demagogically and strangely, so that laughter tends to come up unless I know that he is the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and could ask a little wiser questions. First of all, who will see you when you come up with such a question? It is not a question of who sees us, it is a question of principle. The question is whether the minister knows what's going on in his ministry, whether he knows which press releases are being sent out. We could at least check it out. Now that our inquiry has given him his attention, maybe he'll go to work tomorrow morning and go through with his press service, which will be sent out to the auditorium in which language and form. So this isn't about us, it's about the Minister and his organisation, and we're doing him a favor of our own. I think he's gonna say thank you. The second question concerns bureaucrats who come to Estonia during the Presidency. I think a few thousand come through here in six months. And our officials learn English. Not just ordinary officials, even the Prime Minister learns English. And I think it's elementary and very nice when a person improves his language skills. But here is a very small difference, a small difference which you did not pay attention to: these bureaucrats are coming to Estonia, but they are going to leave here one day, unlike this very large group whose ancestors came here during the occupation, whose descendants have stayed here and who, for a very large part, have not wanted to learn or refuse to speak Estonian because of the principle. You know, you like telling stories, and you have very good children's books, so I have to pay tribute. It is really interesting to read them, and I am glad that you have taught Estonian to people in other languages here. But I have a story. I too have been in contact with people whose native language is Russian. There are two different groups. There's a group that's come from Sankt-Peterburg or Moscow, for example. These are tourists, really cute people, very nice people. Because of the principle of speaking to them in Russian, I've been very good at practicing myself, and they're also more enjoyable, and they're bulging in English. And there's a certain contingent I don't generalise, but there's a certain group of people who hold a long-term resident's residence permit or a gray passport. I can see that he lives in Estonia, but his first sentence is always arrogant and full of himself: 'A tt goveriš po russki? " And I will answer him in the same way, saying no! You've got a problem, come and make yourself clear. That's the big difference. But these bureaucrats of the European Union come and go. I am also reluctant when press releases intended for the internal auditorium go out in English in addition to Russian. We see no reason for this. The general Estonian working language and official language are Estonian. For example, if there are people with Estonian native language in the City Council of Narva, they must understand the meeting of the City Council. The way someone talks to each other on the hallway, for example, it doesn't matter if they talk in Chinese. I don't mind. But it is a matter of principle: the official language is Estonian. There is, however, one party that has introduced bilingualism in Tallinn over the last few decades. It also contradicts the Minister's statement that the younger you learn the better you learn it. God's True Prophecy - Praise! Languages must be studied in kindergartens. But somehow your own party ignores it. Go tell your party chairman, Mr. Ratas, that please we will put an election program in place for local elections, that we will make kindergartens Estonian, because it will benefit the future of these children. This is needed to enable them to go to university on an equal footing with Estonians, to be competitive on the labour market. In fact, these children would never be in a much better position to ask for a better salary if they spoke both Estonian and Russian purely, unlike me. But somehow your actions and words conflict with each other. I'm gonna talk to you today and I'm gonna talk to you tomorrow. And if you're accusing us here that our party chairman gave PBK an interview in Russian, I'm telling you to give it in Japanese, even in Latvian. This is not the work of the press service and it is not financed by our taxpayers' money, for example, from the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I can give an interview in Swedish with pleasure, and I can do just fine. But as your minister, I don't expect the press service to be ordered to make a press release on fishing in Swedish, for example. This is not necessary for Swedish residents or people living in Estonia who come from Sweden. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U51	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U52	So this demagogic statement is just weird. There is no point in waving such references that we are learning English a lot or someone gave an interview in Russian somewhere. He wants it, he gives it, he doesn't want it, he doesn't. It's not your concern, it's not my concern. In addition, I would like to say to you what to do with you, that if someone feels hurt because I was talking about a grey wolf, who is still looking towards the forest, then, as you understand, I was referring very directly to the fact that there is a political group in the Riigikogu whose mind is very strongly characterized by a whole party who speaks one language with one auditorium and another in another language. Unlike us, who say exactly the same thing in any language. I'm often asked for an interview with Stolitsa. He sends me a request in Estonian to comment on the subject of the day. I'd love to answer that, of course. They translate it into Russian, and I usually always check how it is translated, whether my idea has been passed on exactly. And I've never had a problem with that. However, at some meeting, your party minister tells Estonians that NATO is a very nice and wonderful thing and we support it, but if he meets the veterans of the former occupation force, he will express his opinion that he could step out of NATO. Different auditoriums and radically different messages. We're not gonna do that and we're not gonna do it. Mr Stalnukhin said that he would recall our messages or what we said after the next election. I'm glad he reminds me of them. There are also Russian-speaking members of our party; we also have candidates in elections whose native language is Russian and who will definitely speak part of the campaign events in Russian. We're happy about that. But the big difference between us is that we don't lie. We tell different people the same thing, you tell different people different stories. That's the big difference between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U53	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable representatives of the people! I look in the hall, but I don't see a bear or a wolf. And I don't want to be a fox or a hedgehog, even though I'm from the Alutaguse forests and really spoke Russian in my childhood, and I have a lot of Russian friends to this day. But still, I wouldn't take those roles. However, I will try to summarise this debate today in a timely manner and with the words of Papa Jannsen. Each person must respect and love his or her native language. And that respect and love must come from his soul. If he loves his native tongue, others around him will love the same language. Even if they don't understand. Our first duty is to keep our mother tongue, the Estonian language, which is the official language, and to make sure that this language moves forward with the day we live in. Language needs support, and it needs support and care in addition to being proud. So I would rather call for us to make sure that in our environment, in the city space, everywhere on the billboards, there is a right-hand Estonian language and that we ourselves speak in a beautiful and clear Estonian language. And beyond that, so that we can and would like to support all the programmes and studies that deal with the Estonian language. So the power to hold and protect the Estonian language! Raising this issue is a grateful but less metaphorical generalisation and more look to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U55	I understand that Mikhail Stalnukhin can only have a desire to oppose. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U56	I say purely for the verbatim: I changed my mind. I'm not even gonna watch what the EKRE is doing before the election. I'd really like to forget them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U57	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U58	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I did not really intend to speak on this issue at all, but I understood that the Minister cannot answer and I have to answer my own rhetorical question. I agree with everything that has been said by a good colleague, Krista Aru. The Estonian language must be maintained, the Estonian language must be developed, the Estonian language must be protected, the Estonian language must really be studied. It doesn't apply to one or the other language community, it applies to both. We Estonians, too, are not very good at speaking Estonian, especially now in the Internet age, where computer language is very hard to push. But now on the subject. In fact, we are not talking about this question for a long time, we are talking about a much wider one. I repeat: if there is one thing they want to talk about through an inquiry, then you have to ask about it. Finally, I think that fishing day is not just a national event. Kalapäev could be a highly international event in the capital of Estonia or anywhere in Estonia. Fish and the sea are both so important components of our lives that they need to be spoken in different languages. I think that such information, such information, could be in more languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U59	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U60	Thank you. I am very pleased that colleagues from the Centre Party have finally realised that this specific theme statement, a specific issue for the Minister for Rural Affairs, is motivated by the wider problem that it is motivated by the position of the Estonian language in our society now and what it will be like in the future as these tendencies continue. We receive thousands of immigrants every year, most of whom come from Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. I am not talking about other refugees and asylum seekers, but when we look around, we see every day how this is reflected in our daily lives, how the position of Russian is growing, how Russian takes over the positions of Estonian. I'm not going here, as Mr. Stalnukhin did, to tell him about his childhood, how it was cold outside, how his mother put on warm clothes, and how his wife lost something on the market. These are all issues that are absolutely irrelevant. The question is what the Estonian state was created for, which is what the Estonian state is set up for, what responsibilities are the government, the Riigikogu, the ministries and all of us who represent the country that we have been elected to this collection, who we have sworn as either a Riigikoguian or as a representative of the government, the ministry. Today, the oath was made here and promised to be loyal and loyal to the Estonian state and to perform constitutional order. If we whistle to the Preamble of our Constitution, which says directly that our duty, the duty of the state, is to preserve the Estonian language, culture and nation, and we say that we in our ministries do not control what our press departments do, whether they send out press releases in one, two, three or God knows how many languages, then forgive us, that's bullshit. It would be enough if the minister once said that we would send out press releases in Estonian, because our language and official language are Estonian, and that's all. He doesn't have to run after the press department and check every press release. But you don't wanna do it because it's a lot easier to say, listen, the right time was never passed. Once upon a time, we should have started teaching our children, and the time has passed. So what? Yeah, it was a good time to do this a lot sooner, but that doesn't mean you have to throw a gun in the bush today and get your hands dirty and start doing business in Russian. We have a million 300,000 people in the whole country, only 900,000 Estonians. There is Russia in the east, with 140 million inhabitants. Of course, there is nothing that threatens the Russian language, but it is very dangerous to our language. We are a very small nation and we must stick to our language and culture with our nails and teeth if we want the Estonian state and nation to survive. Let us look at our northern neighbours! The largest minority group has been the Russians who have migrated there over the last few decades. Can you do business in Russian in the state agencies? Will invitations and press releases be distributed in Russian? No, you don't! Exactly the same is true in any EU country in Germany, France, Spain... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U61	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U62	And these are great countries whose nation and nation are not threatened by anything. We cannot compare ourselves to them and pretend that we are not threatened by anything, we can whistle to our own language because we have a lot of people of other nationalities living here. Yes, he does! And more and more will come, and does that mean that it is, as the Centre Party and the Left Government think, the right time has passed, and now we forget everything our forefathers fought for, for which the Republic of Estonia was created, for which we were once again independent. It's extremely embarrassing to hear such excuses. I don't even want to tell you what it is. But in any case, this single press release we picked out is just one example of a very, very many. This is an example of a certain trend, a certain attitude, a lack of care. And that kind of thing can't last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U63	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to negotiate. Mr. Minister? No, I don't. However, for the sake of the Steinogram, I think it is necessary to say that, Mr President-in-Office of the Group, if anyone intends to prohibit any kind of talk by their members at all, it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U64	Let's go to the next question. It is presented by Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõmm, Artur Talvik, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U65	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister Korb! You must be the member of the Government of the Republic to whom the members of the Free Party have submitted almost the most inquiries during this semester. Perhaps only the Prime Minister will compete with you for your first and second place. We are, of course, grateful that you have responded nicely and that you have also come today to answer a question that you could have passed on to the next minister. Given the topical nature of the subject, however, it seems to me that it is a good thing that you are giving these answers. Unfortunately, my thanks are limited to this general side. In fact, I must say that we have not been satisfied at all with your answers to the administrative reform. The lack of flexibility in the implementation of the reform is particularly regrettable. I am, of course, referring to the coercive alliances that are planned. I think you leave a bad legacy to the next minister in this regard, but let's hope he does better. Now specifically, however, the question, which may be a narrow aspect from the point of view of administrative reform, is a very important aspect from the point of view of the construction of our country, i.e. the protection of the population and the responsibilities of the municipality in organising it. Why didn't we think it was right that this answer shifted to autumn? First of all, the concept of protection of the population should be completed as early as November, but we have not heard much about how it is being drafted, how the various ministers will fill their work. In this context, we have also not heard of the impact of administrative reform being taken into account. After all, this is a major process and it is clear that even the risk assessments that all municipalities have done so far on their own need to be updated after accession. Another thing: we have had one rather poor experience with the fact that we proposed to amend the Local Government Ordinance Act, which concerned the tasks of the municipality in the event of evacuation and the necessary regulation to carry out this task. For some reason you did not discuss this issue, although other ministries had also raised it in the context of the KOKS, the Local Government Organisation Act. The Commission, as far as I know, did not support this proposal either. Somehow, the things we have in government aren't gonna crash. The question is motivated by the desire to understand how the performance of national defence tasks in the field of local governments and the protection of our population will look. We want answers to seven questions. I'm not gonna spend any time reading them. Definitely national defence issues and ensuring the security and resilience of the community are also crucial at grassroots level. I hope that you have dealt with these problems, however, and your attitude towards the protection of the population of municipalities is not what you expressed at this unfortunate and fatal Haapsalu meeting. It seemed as a minister that you didn't understand the matters of national defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U66	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners! First of all, I would like to thank you for the attention you have given me during my work in the form of enquiries. I rather considered them to be more of a constructive dialogue where you and I had the opportunity to exchange views. Well, life shows, maybe one or the other questioning or exchange of views has affected some of the major decisions. Now I'm going to go to the questioning text, I'm going to read the questions, and I'm going to answer them. There are seven questions, they are very thorough, and I will try to answer them as much as I can. The first question: 'What is your direct contribution to the development of a section of the concept of population protection concerning municipalities? What are the positions of political parties in the government? ' I'll start from the beginning. A population protection task force was set up at the State Chancellery by decree of the State Secretary of 15 January 2016. This task force is represented by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Social Affairs, Ministry of Rural Affairs, Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Department of Rescue, Department of Police and Border Guard, Defence Police, Alarm Centre, Defence Board, Defence League, Environmental board, Internal Defence Academy, Tax and Customs Board, Health Board, Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Association of Cities. It would be inappropriate to specifically highlight the particular contribution of a person or institution here. The main objective is to define in the concept what can be done in Estonia to protect the population and how to prepare people for emergency situations, including so that they can cope independently in difficult situations. On the positions of the political parties, I can say that the concept of population protection has been an important point in the coalition agreement between two different governments. I am sure that, in addition to the government, the political parties represented in the Riigikogu will also support the objectives set and set. The second question: "Is community security and resilience a function of community, local government or central authority for various crises? When it comes to shared responsibility, where does the limit of roles and responsibilities run? ' In order to ensure preparedness for crises, the main focus has been on sharing the responsibilities of public authorities. Other levels of society are not sufficiently involved. I mean the population, the community, the local government. The role of public authorities is to contribute to the identification, analysis and national measures of threats to the safety of the population, which prevent or mitigate the consequences of major crises. The law does not impose obligations on residents, communities and local authorities of expressis verbis, except for exceptions. In this way, it is important to recognise that, in the event of crises affecting the population, informed and skilled behaviour, in particular of the population and businesses, will help to reduce the consequences. The community and local authorities are a contributing and supportive interest group and an important partner for the central authority, whose involvement in the preparation of the population for crises is essential. So far, the involvement of communities and local authorities has been insufficient and must certainly be increased in the near future. 'What are the responsibilities of local authorities and how are the merging municipalities prepared to carry out these tasks? " That was the third question. The new tasks assigned to local governments are in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. In the future, local authorities will carry out their current tasks, add to some of the current tasks of the central authority, which are better carried out at local level, as well as the tasks that will be transferred after the rural governments have ceased to exist. After the government has adopted the final concept, it will be possible to set up population protection tasks and prepare the necessary legislative changes. The fourth question: "Whether and which national defence tasks of local governments are to be laid down in the Local Government Organisation Act? " The Ministry of Finance considers that the Local Government Organisation Act sets out the tasks necessary for the organisation of local life. In summary, the list of core functions of local government that are consistently and on a daily basis is given in subsections 6 (1) and 6 (2) of the Local Government Organisation Act. They must be filled in in all circumstances. Continuing with the above: Paragraph 6 of the Local Government Organisation Act makes sense to mention the core tasks of local governments. There is no need to regulate tasks of an exceptional or national nature in the COKS and even less the details of their execution. Paragraph 6 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act states that, in addition to the basic tasks, the local government decides and organises those local life issues that are assigned to it by other laws. A large part of the tasks have already been regulated by sectoral laws, and that should be the case. That will continue to be the case. Question 5: "What are the tasks of local authorities in the event of major accidents? Are there and how are the risks associated with the release of chemicals into the environment, dangerous cargoes, etc.? " The role of local authorities in dealing with crisis situations depends on the specificities of the crisis. Major natural disasters can lead to tasks that local authorities are obliged to perform, regardless of the overall resolution of the crisis. In addition, major accidents may lead to additional obligations for local governments, such as assisting authorities in the event of widespread evacuation of the population. On 1 July 2017, a new Emergency Act will enter into force, imposing a critical service obligation on local authorities with more than 10000 inhabitants. Local authorities shall be responsible for resolving emergency situations related to the interruption of the vital service under their responsibility. Pursuant to Order No 208 of the Government of the Republic of 25 April 2013 'List of emergency situations for which a risk analysis and resolution plan is drawn up and designation of competent enforcement authorities for the preparation of an emergency risk analysis and emergency plan', the designated authorities are those responsible for risk identification and the development of measures in the event of accidents involving chemicals and dangerous cargoes. The list of responsibilities for these agencies will be followed. First of all, if there is a major accident in a company handling dangerous chemicals or in another industrial or warehouse that threatens the life and health of many people or causes serious damage to property or to the environment or seriously and extensively disrupts the continuity of vital services, then the Rescue Board is responsible. Extensive environmental pollution inland causing major environmental damage or endangering the lives or health of many people or causing a serious and widespread disturbance to the continuity of the vital service An accident on a road that threatens the life or health of many people or causes serious environmental damage or serious and extensive disruptions to the continuity of the vital service was the responsibility of the Road Administration. An accident on a railway that threatens the life or health of many people or causes serious damage to property or serious damage to the environment or serious and widespread disruption of the performance of a vital service is responsible for the Technical Surveillance Authority. Let us move to the sixth question: 'In the past, municipalities have often asked for money to draw up a risk analysis and then ordered it from outside. What is your recommendation to the acceding municipalities to prepare risk assessments with the widest possible involvement of the population and with the support of communities? 'The obligation for local authorities to draw up emergency risk analyses and crisis management plans is linked to 2001-2009. The Emergency Preparedness Act in force until 2005. At that time, municipalities and municipalities had a responsibility to manage emergency situations on the territory of their municipality or city. Since local authorities now have no such obligation, there is no need to oblige them to carry out emergency risk analyses. The exception is known to be the city of Tallinn, which has considered it necessary and continued to prepare the city's risk analysis on its own initiative. Today, when imposing crisis management obligations on local authorities, the focus should be on activities that are related to the face-to-face approach, i.e. the preparation for the protection of residents, rather than the emergency response. Possible activities of local governments are to assist public authorities in raising public awareness of the risks of the population, trainings, campaigns, different information days, and to map possible places of evacuation that can be deployed in cooperation with communities in the event of extensive evacuation. One example is the Pärnu flood and the Padaoru accident that occurred not very long ago. Next: to map and prepare plans for helping residents or institutions in crisis situations who cannot manage themselves, for example, disabled people, elderly people, nursing homes, etc., and to take into account the results of the risk analysis prepared by public authorities when drawing up the general and detailed plan of the municipality or city. Since I have three minutes left, I can also answer the seventh question nicely. '2015. According to the 2006 Eurobarometer survey, one of our problems is poor knowledge of emergency risks, people cannot assess the adequacy of prevention, etc. What is the role of municipalities in raising people's awareness, and how is this done? " Raising people's awareness is a shared responsibility of the various actors in society. The local government primarily contributes to this through its work in kindergartens and schools. In cooperation with national authorities and non-governmental organisations, they participate in the implementation of information and safety days for their residents. Many municipalities also take advantage of other ways of keeping their people aware of the risks: for example, sharing information on the website, through local newspapers, etc. Under the Emergency Act, which will enter into force on 1 July of this year, larger local authorities will be required to inform the public of the risks that may result from local road driving, district heating, water supply and also sewerage disruptions. I have now answered all seven questions. I'm ready for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U68	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, This kind of silo philosophy still shines through this whole answer. And, you know, that's not how this concept of population protection works if we push everyone away and say it's not the subject of the Local Government Act. However, I would point out that § 6 (2) of the Act currently obliges, in general terms, to impose these obligations on evacuation matters. Why have you not supported this proposal, which, as far as I know, has also come from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the State Chancellery, and which has also been proposed by the Free Party Group in order to detail the tasks of the municipality concerning temporary accommodation, catering, etc. in the event of evacuation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U70	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. Really, the question you raised is very important. I think there are several sides to the game. Firstly, as I pointed out in my reply, it is not very practical to clarify the law. On the one hand, it is as if we are trying to clarify the law, on the other hand, complaining that the laws are too harshly regulating our lives. It is often quite logical and easy for everyone to understand how to operate or manage in a situation. At the same time, local authorities have a very strong and clear role to play in a crisis situation. I am convinced that local authorities understand their role very well. I do not know once where, in some cases of crisis, the local authorities would not have rushed to help their people. I therefore argue that responsible local government leaders always come to the aid of their residents in a crisis situation. I do not consider it appropriate to further regulate it by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U71	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U72	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I see there are total differences in concept. I understand that the task force assumes that in the event of a crisis, the local authority must be the 'primary' point of response. For example, if electricity is lost, he must be able to help people in distress. Now, please explain your concept. I understand that the local government and the community must cooperate. The local authority must take the initiative to provide coordinated information; this cannot be done by the community, because the members of the community are scattered. You said that only the community and businesses have a role to play in regulating the crisis. Where does that come from? I understand that when 15 minutes have been discussed in the government, it is obviously not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U73	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in my reply I said so, but of course local authorities also have a certain role to play in regulating the crisis. It is up to the local government to prevent the crisis, but if it does happen, to deal with the consequences. We cannot entrust local authorities with the resolution of the crisis. In the case of the same power cut, it is not the local authority that has to restore the electricity connection. There are certain companies for that. I have personally participated in regulating one of the crises as a representative of the local government. That is precisely the case: it is the task of the local government to communicate with people, to inform the public and to deal with those who have suffered directly or indirectly. Of course, it is a role for local governments and also for entrepreneurs. As far as the concept is concerned, I think it is the same for everyone. Everyone understands who has a role to play. Once again, I do not see the need to prescribe anything further.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U74	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. The protection of the population begins with awareness raising and acceptance of certain concepts. How much has been discussed about the involvement of schools in this process? How much has been taught and explained, why is the protection of the population the responsibility of every human being and that everything begins with every human being? Or has the involvement of cultural and educational institutions not yet begun?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U76	Thank you for your question. I might go a little deeper. Raising awareness is beginning to mean that there has to be some kind of awareness. I am saying that the first thing to do is to explain to local authorities what their role is in regulating crises. It seems to me that the perception that this must be dealt with by the local authority has not reached everyone. Or when someone has reached that understanding, it is not on a uniform level. I, for example, know the specialists in the Rescue Board who, year after year, are doing a very good job of informing the population, and that is why people's awareness is increasing. But it is certainly an area that needs to be given more emphasis. First, training must be done and awareness raised in local governments themselves and then the next level: schools, kindergartens and other institutions. I generally think it's a job that never ends. This is a job that can never be said that everything is now very well, everyone is very aware. I really agree with the need to raise awareness. The public's awareness of how to operate in emergency situations is quite low.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U77	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U78	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! You didn't have a very long career as a minister. Here's my question for you. You are saying here that the awareness of local authorities needs to be raised, but how much was your awareness of the issue of population protection raised during this period? How many meetings, meetings with specialists, task forces, etc. on this subject during the six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U79	Good questioner! As for the first part of your question, everything is relative. There have been shorter ministerial careers, there is nothing to be ashamed of. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, it is difficult to bring it out in hours, but as we move around Estonia, I have met quite a lot of people and talked to them about security issues. What's the problem? For example, people are concerned about the possibility that in an emergency, the rescue crew will not be able to get to their house. A large part of the system is built on volunteering, and I commend our volunteers, but many people are concerned that a system built on volunteers will not produce the result that is expected. This is a concern that is clearly felt throughout Estonia, although it may not be justified. As far as my awareness is concerned in particular, of course, I have been better informed about our system during this time and I can see better the bottlenecks that should be removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U80	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The concept of public protection has a very clear objective: any crisis must be known how to protect the population. Inevitably, local authorities have a role here that must not be underestimated. At present, it seems that this role is placed too much on the state, not on the basis of the subsidiarity principle for local authorities. In answering one previous question, you said that many municipalities have not yet come to an understanding of their role in protecting the population and regulating the crisis. I have three very specific questions which, in principle, can be answered yes or no. First of all, do you intend to put the concept of population protection into law? It would be very helpful. Who is the authority in this area that should play a leading role? We're not gonna make it without it. Thirdly, in order to be clear, do local authorities be told what tasks they should be dealing with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U82	I fear that these questions are difficult to answer yes or no. As for writing this concept into law, I have given you my opinion. But that doesn't mean you can't do that. In a parliamentary country, perhaps this could be a debate issue. If it is found that this role must be clearly stated in the law, it can be done. As regards, in particular, the way in which we have subsidiary assignments, most of the tasks that involve resolving the crisis and general security are indeed concentrated in the hands of the central authority. It's one concept, it could be different. There are countries where it is dealt with on a different level, but this is the decision in Estonia. Whether it's good or bad, there's no point in judging it here. Today, unfortunately or fortunately, this is the system and it works well enough. Given the size of Estonia, I do not think it makes sense to change the mechanism that works. Rather, more resources should be provided at the same level so that crisis resolution or regulation mechanisms work better or at least as well as they do now. As far as the managing authority is concerned, crisis management groups have been set up in all Estonian counties, bringing together specialists from different fields. In my opinion, this solution, the task of the rescue service is to regulate the crisis, is the right one. This system could continue to do the same. Your third question was about local government tasks. This area could in general be regulated uniformly and everyone must have an understanding of what the role of local government is. However, as I said, this role has been removed from the law and therefore local authorities will no longer carry out crisis and emergency analyses. Apparently, it was decided right here in the hall. It must have been preceded by a debate, and a decision was made for certain reasons. It may be put back on the agenda and discussed, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U83	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U84	I thank the members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U85	I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U86	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Minister's presentation confirmed my understanding and the understanding of our entire group that the current government is a government that wants to deepen the lessons learned about helplessness in society and believes that, in order to increase people's sense of security, we should put a single policeman standing next to each other and a rescue car around every corner. But when it comes to protecting the population, the Free Party and I are talking about our own society and our own citizens. When we talk about security, we mean that a person gets scared when he doesn't know what to do. In the area of the protection of the population, the greatest failure of the current government, as well as of previous governments, is that people are not informed of what they should do in one situation or another, how to behave, where to go. And it's really the central government to figure out a system to inform people. I remember very well that the Lithuanian Government issued a so-called Green Paper after the events in Ukraine began. On this point, in Estonia, it was said that coming out with such a Green Paper means scaring the population. The content of the Green Paper was how citizens must behave in different crisis situations, what local authorities must do and what things are to be organised at central level. In particular, my soul was scratched by the Minister's statement that we cannot trust those volunteers who are committed to saving and ensuring community security in Estonia. Or that the people he's met can't be trusted. I can give dozens of examples of Iceland, a country with a much smaller population than Estonia. The security of the entire country is largely built on a voluntary system and yet people feel safe there, even though at any moment one volcano or another can erupt and the situation in the country gets very complicated. So, regrettably, we have once again been assured that there is a huge gap in this area in our country: the understanding of the protection of the population reflects two completely different areas of thinking. One concept is that the central government should take care of all its inhabitants as a hen mother, and the other, which we share, is that all people must be informed of their role in each particular situation. People must be taught to behave adequately in difficult situations, to act properly. So we're gonna bang in a much safer country than a hen mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U87	There are no more calls. Don't the minister want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm gonna consider this question answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U88	And now, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register a free microphone for speaking. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U89	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't spoken in a free microphone in a long time, but the situation is just that I can't help but say one thing. That's what Narva's mathematics teachers are asking, and I, too, with my unfinished mathematical education, just have to make this speech in front of you. In the 15th century, a monk in Germany told such a story. One day a young man came to him, crying told him that he had lost his beak. He took off his pants and showed me that really where this stuff was supposed to be was a perfectly smooth place. The monk said he knew what was going on, took him to the woods, and said, "Look, there's a nest in that tall tree." There's just a couple of these organs together, climb up and get one of them. But don't take the big one, it's the bishop's, he said he'd come back for it in a few days. There's a witch in the village next door who steals them from men, which is why they're in the nest. If you think I made something up, I didn't make it up. This is the story of a book written by Jakob Sprenger and Henricus Institutoris, called Malleus maleficarum. These men lived in a particular world, and they thought this world was objective and this world was right, but all those who steal beaks from men are in a parallel world somewhere. They thought they were right, and under that right, they burned tens of thousands of women like witches. Why am I telling you this now? Last week I read an article written by one of our colleagues in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. The title was: 'Bring the Russian people back from the parallel worlds! '. I was asked to explain what the parallel was. One object cannot be parallel to itself, two points cannot be parallel to each other, a point and a line cannot be parallel. From a straight line to a plane, there is a possible parallelity here. The two lines are parallel to each other. If you say that this line is parallel, that means that both lines are parallel. I'll take the simplest case. Well, there's 2 plus n, where n is just any real number. If someone wants to bring someone back from the parallel world, it means only one thing: there are two worlds that are parallel to each other, and if you want to bring someone out of his parallel world, then you live in one parallel world, and no one can tell what the real world is. What if both worlds are parallel? And they probably are because propaganda works on one side and on the other. I would like to remind you once again that stories such as the one I brought at the beginning of the story of the monk and the nest on the tree were believed and accepted. On the basis of them, people were killed. Every time I hear that a group of people, specifically I am Russian, must be brought out of the parallel world, I mean, what kind of world do you live in? So there is this comic moment here that people in the Riigikogu do not know geometry, do not understand what are parallel straight or parallel levels. They don't understand that these things are parallel to each other. And the other thing is, of course, that insulting attitude, that insulting attitude towards people who think differently. So you're similar to these Dominicans, these monks, Sprenger and the Institutors. You think only you're right, you don't want any debate, you accuse and make this decision instantly. And for that, you're willing to throw a match and burn down the very world you call parallel. I would otherwise be disgusted to be with people who absolutely do not respect other people's opinions, but I understand that this is only due to bad education and the fact that geometry is no longer taught in today's school. If it were still in the school program, maybe I wouldn't hear such nonsense and I shouldn't be offended by the fact that my world is somehow parallel and I'm being taken to the right place. First, check if you are in the right place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-05_U90	There's no more calls. Today's trial is over. We are all going to start repairing the world tomorrow at 10 o'clock here in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4.45 p.m.
