ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 46 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. I am also giving an opportunity today to ask a very specific question. It may be that everyone who signed up yesterday gets their question today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U2	The first questioner is Andres Herkel, the first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When you came to your office, we had great hopes, because you declared very clearly that you would not make decisions out of your own wisdom and that you would also consider the opposition. In particular, you screwed up the expectations of the Free Party, implying that our ideas and understandings are also reflected in the coalition's activities, whether or not we belong to it. Now, with the first three drafts of the opposition that came under discussion in the Riigikogu, it was still the case that they did not go beyond the first reading, there is no sign of progress. In the meantime, there were several drafts which were unequivocally rejected, and we have been able to hear further the negative positions of the Government of the Republic. The question arises as to how you are actually fulfilling your promise to take account of the opposition's proposals. In particular, I am asking about the draft law on supporting local democracy, with which we want to ensure that electoral alliances have a level playing field with political party lists in local policy-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, thank you, honourable questioner, for this question. I still believe, and very strongly, that the government, the government coalition, must work well with the opposition. Indeed, I have said that no idea can be redundant in Estonia. I still believe that all ideas are necessary and that there must be a debate on them. When you come specifically to some of the proposals you asked about the thoughts of the Free Party, your party has, as you know, considered that we should give greater impetus to certain sectors of the economy. For example, you have talked a lot about maritime policy and bringing ships, especially merchant ships, under the flag of Estonia. This principle is even enshrined in the agreement of the Government Coalition, and the Ministry and the Minister are currently working on putting the system together. I have personally heard the proposal or position of some members of your group, such as Mr Jüri Adams, a member of the Riigikogu, concerning the municipality of Setomaa, already around November last year. You also touched on the importance of local democracy in your question. I am pleased that the Minister of Public Administration also did a question to the local councils, but asked the citizens of four municipalities whether the Setomaa municipality could come or not. Most of them said it could come. These are some examples of the fact that cooperation has been good for a few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U5	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I regret, however, that you have acquired the custom of the previous Prime Minister not to answer the question, but to talk about what you want. Setomaa is a great example, and maritime is also a great example, but I didn't ask about them. I was talking about concrete drafts that the Free Party has tabled. You are well aware of our ideas and drafts, because we were in the opposition together, and at that time you supported a large part of them. But you did not answer my first question about supporting local democracy and allocating money to the electoral alliances. The main question is whether you are only a good PR or a good Democrat who wants to see equal opportunities for the participants in the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U7	Thank you. If, now, very briefly, I answer the question, which was set out as a good democrat, I consider this quality to be very important, and I hope that I can also grow it, every day, in cooperation with you. As far as public relations is concerned, all politics will eventually fall back on human relations. There is certainly a need for good relations between opposition and coalition parties. However, I will also say a few words in response to the specific questions you have raised. Indeed, on 25 January, the Free Party has launched a draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act 376, in which you foresee that the government will have more flexibility to grant exemptions. We have discussed this and are based on the fact that the exceptions to the administrative reform law are actually pretty well written in. There is now enough time, and the government has also made its proposals on compulsory mergers. Now is the time for municipalities to respond. I think that this principle, which was also in your bill to give the government more power of decision and certainty to set up local governments, is in fact also in the current law. I would also like to stress here that, if there are any exceptions at all, they really must be very well founded and cannot become a rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U8	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Let me introduce a little bit of the real content of Andres Herkel's question. In fact, a week ago, the Free Party Group submitted a draft on the basis of which the local government's successful lists, be they electoral federations, party local lists or even individual candidates, pay the state support, of course, at the expense of the support granted to the political parties of the Riigikogu. There would be a new mechanism that would be such that each vote would have its own price. Our proposal is for it to be two euros. What's your position? Whether the list of local parties, electoral federations or individual candidates are equalized and the levelling of conditions of competition and employment opportunities is, in the view of the government, a good proposal? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U10	Thank you. I think you're talking about a bill that was handed over on 8 February, bearing the number 388. It is true that the Government of the Republic will certainly give its position on this, but the deadline has not yet arrived and we are still in the process of discussion. When I say my position, I think that any allocation of public money to political parties must be even more open, even more concrete, even clearer. This idea is, in any case, commendable, and that is what I support. In general, I think that the direction taken in Estonia to reduce this, let's say, high-questioned funding for political parties is the right one. There is also a very clear set of rules. This can be done by natural persons, can be done through membership fees and can be done from the state budget. I think that such a clear and concrete system, from which as many question marks as possible have been removed, is the right direction. But with regard to this particular draft, No 388, we will definitely say our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U12	A question for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The last few weeks, in fact even months, have brought us some very worrying news about how homo-activists have started an attack through the Estonian courts to promote their agenda, having admitted that there is no will to adopt certain laws in Parliament and that there is no support for them in society at large. One case took place in Tallinn District Court, where Harju County Government was obliged to enter a marriage between two men in the Estonian population register in Sweden, although it is clearly contrary to our laws. In our opinion, the courts just broke the law. The second case was that the Tallinn Administrative Court re-examined the application for a residence permit made on the grounds of the marriage of two same-sex persons in the United States. And, of course, we can also mention the benefits granted to Reimo Metsa. First of all, I ask this question: why did the Ministry of the Interior not appeal the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court and missed the opportunity to go to the Supreme Court with this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U14	Thank you. First of all, I'm glad you're so excited about the same-sex subject. I'll try to answer you as much as I can. Firstly, the Ministry of the Interior has had to deal with meetings in two of these areas. One concerned the adoption decision by the resolution to enter into the population register after the entry into force of the implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. If the Ministry of the Interior did not comply with this appeal last year, the Administrative Court later made it compulsory for the Ministry to make such a statement in the population register. As Minister of the Interior, I took a decision not to appeal against it because, in fact, as the Court pointed out, all the grounds for making such an entry exist both in the current Family Law and in the Civil Status Act. Secondly, there has been a challenge in which the Court has already found, when determining the right to adopt, that it is necessary to enter into the population register immediately, without waiting for the implementing acts. The Home Office has made this entry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U16	Thank you. I didn't get your answer why you didn't argue. The law of cohabitation has not been implemented. As far as the Ats Yoritsa case in Tallinn District Court is concerned, there is no mention of the Cohabitation Act. There is talk about the Swedish Gay Marriage Act, which the court forces Estonia to recognise, but it is contrary to Estonian law. My question to you is this: how do you feel when the courts have taken over the role of legislator, pass by the will of Parliament and the people, and force the executive to carry out some sort of action with some fictitious reasoning? In essence, we see courts breaking the principle of separation of Estonian authorities and judges breaking the law. As Minister of the Interior, what are you going to do about such judges, and how do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U17	Thank you. I am very respectful of Estonian courts and I am sure that Estonian courts will not break the law. However, according to the principle of separation of powers, the courts have the right to consider, consider decisions taken by the executive, administrative acts and disputes. They must make their decisions in accordance with both Estonian and international law. Now, if you come back to the same arguments that directly concern the Ministry of the Interior, I will dismiss the other arguments because I do not have any substantive information about them, and I will talk about the subject matter of adoption, because the Ministry of the Interior has had two disputes of this nature, then the legal basis for adoption is provided by § 15 of the Cohabitation Act. On the basis of § 159 (3) of the Family Act, the child has been adopted since the entry into force of the adoption court order, which is why adoption has legal meaning and binding effect since then. Upon adoption, the adopter becomes a parent. Paragraph 25 (1) of the Civil Status Act provides that the details of the mother of a child are to be entered in the population register on the basis of the health care provider's certificate or court decision. Such a decision can also be considered to be a court order deciding on adoption. There is therefore a legal basis for registering these data in the population register. Given the legal basis, I, as Minister of the Interior, did not consider it necessary to continue the dispute. The decisions made in the two cases of two different formations of the Court were sufficient for me not to continue this dispute or to spend public money on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U18	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, let me make a small remark. Please don't decide what turns us on! We understand that goats are very exciting to the current government. But as for what you're telling us here, I can tell you from my life experience that I had a lawsuit years ago. I got a letter from the other half's lawyer, which, when I read, I thought I was a killer. But I took my lawyer, who made all the claims made by the other side. In this case, you are using a semi-legal lexic here to convince us that there has been no violation of the law. At the same time, it is strange that the Court has not issued the relevant data to the foundation managed by Varro Vooglaiu in breach of the rules governing the request for information. But my question is actually something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U20	You could ask. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U21	Yeah, I'm asking. Why does the court disregard the moral expectations of the people in this matter? 40000 signatures were collected and handed over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U22	Thank you. It's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U23	But now three judges decide something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U24	Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U25	Thank you. First of all, I apologize for my emotions and the use of the word 'provoked'! Let me put it this way: I am glad you are not excited about this subject. But I also want to say that, in this case, there is no reason to believe that a court has broken the law. The court has acted in a very clear, exhaustive way in its resolute descriptive part why all the grounds for entering the population register are there, in accordance with the legislation in force in Estonia. Finally, to your question. The Minister of the Interior does not, and must not, have the authority to make an assessment of one or the other judgment. For the Minister of the Interior, judgments and their implementation are an obligation. They are not meant to be a criticism, because if the Minister of the Interior were to take jurisdiction to decide whether or not one or the other judgment was to be understood by him and the politicians, it would no longer be a rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U26	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U27	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! A lot has been said about the National Defence Academy in recent times. Although the Minister of the Interior is also in briefing today, I did consider it appropriate to ask you, because I would also like to have the Prime Minister's position and position on the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs. If I take the address sent by the alumni of the Academy of Home Affairs to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, if I also take the application of former ministers in addition to me, the other former Ministers of the Interior Pihl and Taal have given their opinion, and if I take the position of the Central Party President of the Pirita district and also the National Audit Office, they have all taken one position: taking the National Defence Academy to Narva is not a sensible idea. What does the Prime Minister think of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U29	Thank you for your question. Yeah, you'll get my position. First of all, I will start by saying that the country's stronger presence in different counties of Estonia, including in Ida-Virumaa, is in the right direction, and I will definitely support that. Now, I've been working hard on the subject of the National Defence Academy, too. I'll go there myself this afternoon. The Minister of the Interior has presented three alternatives to me and the Government of the Republic. The first of them is that the National Defence Academy stays on Kase Street. Only a part of it will be transferred, or I would say, that there will be an improvement in the internship base, particularly in terms of accommodation conditions and infrastructure improvements. Another option is to create a whole new study complex for Ida-Virumaa, namely Narva, while Väike-Maarja's study complex is maintained, but the Paikus Police School is closed. The third point is that the National Defence Academy will be moved to Narva and the unit of Paikus and Väike-Maarja will remain. And I'd say theoretically there's also the fourth alternative: everything stays the way it is. Three aspects are very important to me. The first is the economic aspect, the second is the security aspect of the country, but the third, and perhaps even the most important, is that the quality of learning must be guaranteed in such changes. In fact, analyses are already being carried out, ministers have set up a working group and work is ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U30	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U31	Thank you. I hope that, in answer to the question to be specified, I will still be able to find out the Prime Minister's personal position as to whether or not he supports the move to Narva. But I will specify and complete my list, because I did not get all of the list when I asked the first question. Katri Raik, Rector of the Academy of Home Affairs, has also said that if the academy's activities were to be completed on Kase Street, it will take 7 to 10 years to build it in Narva, in essence we will then shut down the Academy of Home Affairs in its current form and stop it. I went through some history papers, too, and even though I don't want to quote Midweek at all, I still have to. In fact, on September 19, 2012, the newspaper wrote: "... Who's gonna push this stupid idea on the government and the public? ' It's also being questioned here whether it's not the problem of IRL corruption with this story. This is all written in an article by your own party's vocalist, which also lists Laaneots, Ligi and Ansip as opponents of this plan. So, good Prime Minister, maybe you can tell us what your own position is. Should the National Defence Academy be taken to Narva or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U32	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna say that the National Defence Academy is definitely not shut down, not even temporarily. I think this is quite a historic moment when the President of the Reform Party is quoting the newspaper at Midweek. I'm not sure this has happened before. The addition of other periodicals to the Midweek is, in my opinion, commendable, and I commend you for that. But, as I said, my final position is still based on an in-depth analysis that is already being carried out. I fully agree with what you have to say about investments. I said that the analysis must consist of three components: management costs, security issues and quality of education. As I said, for me, perhaps one of the most important quality of education is that it certainly must not fall. The general principle that the state should be more prominent in Estonia's counties, county centres and different cities, I support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U33	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The coalition representatives were known to discuss the move to the National Defence Academy on Monday. But the Minister of Justice has commented that since the Minister of Education was busy answering questions in the Riigikogu, the conversation was incomplete and you will continue the discussion on Thursday. As we know, the Minister of Finance was also answering questions at this meeting, but the absence of the Minister of Finance is therefore not a problem. I ask you this: is the Minister of Finance involved in this process or is there no money, i.e. the cost of moving, a topic for you at all? Since national taxes are now so well received and you intend to borrow more, this means that there is so much money, money is not an argument. Like this? And I'll ask you again. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have provided a wide range of estimates of the cost of moving, even in the order of magnitude. Have the ministries come to a clear understanding of these assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U35	Thank you. Yes, your information is absolutely correct. Government members discussed this on Monday and continue on Thursday Thursday is known to be tomorrow and, if necessary, will continue on the next few occasions. If you ask whether the Minister of Finance is involved in this matter, then in any case, of course, he is involved. Without a financial forecast, it is impossible to take such a decision. This working group, which is essentially discussing it, is not directly involved in the Minister of Finance as an expert, as far as I know. But he's definitely being asked for inputs, couldn't be any different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U36	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U37	Question by Ms Kaia Ivale, Minister for Social Protection. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The state's welfare budget has increased from year to year and we have now reached 25 million instead of 17. The increase in budget resources has increased, and rightly so, also the prices of services. 2031 new service places have been created throughout Estonia. Now we have over 7,000 service places in total. It all sounds promising, and the official communication has the impression that things are good. This is where the good news ends. On 10 February, the Social Insurance Board sent a letter to the service providers informing them that, as of 1 February, new people would not be sent to the services and would only be financed for those whose conditions had been met as of 1 January, i.e. a little over 5 000 service places. How has there been a situation where the state says that there are service places and that it supports their creation, but afterwards reports that we will no longer do so? Why is the budget so badly planned, and why is it being dimmed, damaging the interests of both customers and service providers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U39	Good Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for this question. Let me make it clear that we currently have 7027 service places and the people who receive the service are 5546. It is true that more than 2000 additional service places have been created. Indeed, in four years, we have had an increase of 44%. This shows, on the one hand, that there has been an increase in the price of services so that it is competitive and, on the other hand, that more services have been created. Indeed, this year we do not intend to create new service places, but next year we will be applying for additional funding because we can create new service places from the ERDF measures. In addition, we wish to reorganize the current major dormitory-type special care facilities. We also create community service places and service places with supported housing. We have requested more than EUR 4 million in next year's state budget to ensure that the new service sites that are currently being completed with European Union money are also completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U40	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U41	Thank you. I would also like to ask now about funding from the European Regional Development Fund. In January, the investment plan was approved, including 20 projects, of which 10 for reorganisation and 10 for the promotion of new community services, totalling EUR 44 million. The ten projects to be reorganized became funding for the renewal of the institutions of AS Hoolekandeteenused. For example, the Sõmera Home, which was the most expensive project, received 12 million and a little bit more. My question, however, is why the state budget covers the own contribution of the public limited liability company, the projects of the public limited company amounting to EUR 6000132, if no other applicant has been granted such an advantage, not even for small non-profit institutions which themselves have to find 15%. In fact, this is how you are deliberately creating unequal conditions of competition for companies and institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U42	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that there are seven special care institutions being reorganized in the reorganization block, but there are indeed more partners among them. The partners are Lihula and Tartu, as well as South-Estonian Special Service Centre and South-Estonian Care Centre AS, so there are more participants. Now the question is why there is a great deal of public limited liability companies among them. The reason is that there are just so many historically state-owned special welfare institutions, three quarters of these places are currently in the administration and possession of AS Hoolekandeteenused. In that sense, things are in proportion. But now your question is why the state guarantees its ownership of the public limited company. This is a public limited company. We are not financing the service at the moment, but are financing and supporting the construction, repair and acquisition of real estate. The service provider is obliged to provide the service in this place for 20 years, while the buildings, i.e. the real estate, remain in its use. Buildings used by public limited liability companies, as well as those owned by private companies or local authorities, shall remain at the disposal of the property for which the subsidy has been granted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U43	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Now that Hoolekandeteenused has been talking about AS, I am very happy to ask you that. Both for you and for Tallinn's assistant city capital, as well as for me as the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, the joint return of parents and guardians of the Käo Päevakeskus Pae Centre has come, regarding the removal of the outdoor area of the day centre and the provision of care services to AS for the creation of special care services and places for 24 clients. Can you comment on that? The concern these people write about is serious because they hoped to use it differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U45	Thank you. I am generally aware of this concern. But the fact is that what is initially seen as a concern can in the future be more of a relief to this issue and to the problem that is being tackled. Indeed, in the course of reorganisation, customers of the institution being reorganized should come to this institution. However, as a result of this customer movement, it should be possible for people on the ground and users of the service to be able to move there in the future. Yes, this possibility may not come right away and very quickly, but there is a perspective. I don't want to share the fear of customers coming from that institution in the process of reorganisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U46	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U47	The next question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The Muraste Border Guard School building, the dormitory, the gym, the service dog farm, the shooting range, etc., in which significant European Union money has been placed, is in good condition and does not require expenditure such as is now needed to build all this elsewhere. For some incomprehensible reason, however, the decision to transfer the school was made. Are you in favour of a proper training complex being abandoned and of new colossal and pointless spending? What is your assessment of this situation anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U49	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The Muraste Training Centre is the common name of the building because, in fact, not only the activities of the Police and Border Guard College have been there lately, but also the decision to terminate the further training of the facility has already been taken during the previous year. There are many reasons. One thing is certainly that in recent years, both police and border guard training, especially on the curriculum, has been found to be very common. I can also say, as a former practitioner, that over the years the approach of these two areas has been very tangible. That is why the organisation of training is not only border guard-based, but also police-based. There have also been police officers and border guards in Muras. This day, or yesterday, when the decision was taken, was certainly one of the reasons for the cost savings. Another thing is that when choices were made, for example, whether the territory of Paikuse and Muraste could be extended even throughout the Interior Defence Academy from Kase Street, it was clear that development would be impossible there, because access routes and even their access are limited due to the Natura site. Therefore, the decision was taken to save the costs of this internship base, as it is also very costly in terms of heating, and to direct these same amounts in the same way to the development of the Paikuse Police School. In the other way, the decision made at the time was to move the National Defence Academy, or to start building the building of the National Defence Academy on Kase Street and using its own funding to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U50	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U51	Thank you. The Muraste Learning Centre is interested in the Defence League, which can transfer to its school, organise various training courses, etc. To cover the fixed costs you have also referred to, it is possible to use the Centre for other further training, national defence seminars, conferences and training, for example, to organise even higher national defence courses. What or who is behind the transfer of the Muraste complex to the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U52	Thank you. This isn't about anything other than a joint decision. Last week we visited Muraste complex with the Minister of Defence, Harku Municipal Elder and Head of the Defence League. Yesterday morning, I had a meeting at the Ministry of the Interior with the Head of the Defence League with whom we agreed that he would propose, by mid-March at the latest, how he would see this school in the use of the Defence League. He himself has admitted that the Defence League School would be able to ensure the full use of this building on weekends. In a week, we're gonna have to find another partner. We're doing analysis in our house, too. The municipality of Harku will also see what interests it has. For Harku municipality, it is now a sports base next to Tabasalu School and one of the best young football clubs is training there. The direct interest of the Ministry of the Interior is that for at least a year and a half there will be our dog training centre. All these factors have driven this debate into motion. I dare say to you that there is no point yet buried and the debate on this topic is going on between the various ministries and, as I said, between the Defence League and the local authorities of Harku. Let's think about how to make the most of this big base. If Riigi Kinnisvara AS were to realise it, the state would not receive a very high income, especially because of its location.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U53	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U54	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The transfer of the National Defence Academy to Narva was also on the agenda of the Government of the Republic in 2012. It was then very aggressively pushed through by Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of the Interior from the IRL at the time. After heated disputes in the Cabinet sessions, it was still abandoned, especially for security reasons, because the educational institution cannot be placed directly at the Russian border, and because of the excessive cost of the transfer. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of the Interior from the same party, IRL, is now making the campaign very energetically. When you look at the media, most oppose it, including the officials of the Ministry of the Interior, all former rectors of the Academy of Home Affairs and most of the people questioned. What is your opinion of the special interest of IRL in transferring to the Academy of Home Affairs? Why is it so forceful? Do they need the lot it's on now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U55	Thank you, Mr Laaneots, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. I'm going to be a little more specific. Until I came here, I had the knowledge that the Minister of the Interior was me, not Urmas Reinsalu. Maybe something's changed since then. But yes, Reinsalu is the Minister of Justice. But what I'm trying to say is that my opinion is very simple and very specific. If we make a regional policy decision to take the Pirita complex of the National Defence Academy to Narva, it is a regional political decision that has its values. One issue must be taken into account here: this decision must not be undermined in any way by the internal security budget of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In other words, by putting it into a simpler language, when we are talking, for example, about some kind of investment, say, ten to fifteen million, it is impossible for it to come from other costs, such as the wages of policemen and rescuers. In addition, there has been a very high public interest in moving to the National Defence Academy recently. Therefore, as Minister of the Interior, I must certainly be very critical of the process, so that the transfer of the Academy of Internal Defence does not give any indication of the specific interests of any real estate developer or of any point of view. This is one of the most important issues for me in this whole process. But I would like to emphasise once again: it is important that internal security, internal security training, throughout this process, should not suffer in any way. That's what I have to stand for and stand for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U56	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U57	Question by Ms Kaia Ivale, Minister for Social Protection. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U58	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Postimees recently wrote that disabled children who have a rehabilitation plan have to wait for some services for about a year. The article shows that 225 children are already in line. The Ministry's official also says that the Ministry is planning to apply for additional funding for the provision of social rehabilitation services and the reduction of queues. My question is this: if it is already clear that there is too little money to provide services in this area, is the reason why the Ministry has badly planned things? What do you consider to be the result of the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U59	Thank you. The fact that there is too little money in this area is known for the last few years. The order of rehabilitation services has also been consistent. When you look at the year 2014, there were 1,200 children in line. The order lengths were a couple of years. Last year, with one-off additional funding, i.e. 1.4 million queues were eliminated. However, as the order is decided for a two-year period, this means that last year's decisions have already been taken and are based on who is entitled to the rehabilitation service and whose service has been funded. Practice shows that about 80% of those who have this right use it. Perhaps it will be monitored gradually as and when the service is used or not used. New people are increasingly receiving the service from the resources released. Now, it's not quite right to say that there's an annual queue. In the sense that, according to the principle stated, children must not be in line for more than one year. Of course, there could be no queue at all, but in any case it must be less than one year. We have planned the extra money from the state budget, and that is what we are applying for, but in the last month, we have also been working on finding more funds to dismantle the queues. I'm hopeful, even though I can't say right now, yes, there is money. But with this internal monitoring and monitoring of the use of the service, people will be better able to access the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U60	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U61	Thank you, good minister. However, I ask once again how much money you are asking for in order to provide the services that I asked about in my first question. Also, according to Ahti Kallaste, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Rehabilitation Institutions, the rehabilitation system is too easily accessible, i.e. there are many applicants. Moreover, it considers that rehabilitation services have been reduced and institutions have reduced the volume of services, which has led to large queues. How much money do you seek, and how do you appreciate Ahti Kallaste's statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U62	Thank you. We are applying for an additional EUR 4.11 million for next year. But this year's queues could be eliminated by about two and a little after a million. In addition to eliminating the current queues, the price of services must also be increased in order to be competitive. In some cases, there are queues where rehabilitation services provided in the healthcare system are better priced and are therefore preferred by service providers. This argument that service providers have been reduced is not true. Their number is still fluctuating between 110-115 and there are no major problems. There may be such problems that in some places one or the other service is not sufficiently accessible. The Social Insurance Board must also look at this aspect with focus on how one or the other service is used regionally. Now the easy access to the service may be too easy. On this side, the SCA must review the services and assess the quality of rehabilitation plans. There has been considerable pressure on passive rehabilitation services (saltroom, massage, etc.), in such cases the queues have usually been longer. For example, one year at the Värska Sanatorium there was a two-year queue for such services, as customers wanted this type of services from this institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U63	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The queues for state-funded social services have unfortunately become commonplace, although this could rather be an exception. So there are long queues for rehabilitation services, as well as special care services, which we talked about in my first question. Now, in the course of the work capacity reform, the rehabilitation service is divided into two parts: social and occupational rehabilitation. The latter is offered by the unemployment fund, largely for the European Social Fund, i.e. we are very much dependent on European money. However, this money will end in 2020. My question is very specific: what is the country's plan, the exit strategy from the dependence of European funding? Do you have confidence and do you have a plan to continue providing services and occupational rehabilitation on the same scale after 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U65	First of all, as far as the special care queues are concerned, I say there is a queue, but quite a feature is that there are quite a few people who have signed up just in case. When a service place is released and offered, it is necessary to contact quite a number of those in line and ask whether the service is really intended to be used, because it may be that at that point there is no wish to use it at all or that a place is expected to be used by one or another specific institution. So there are a number of questions. It is true that we are dependent on all the support funds from European Union funds. There is certainly a need for an exit strategy in the course of the work capacity reform, and it also comes out, say, in a complex way. This concerns all services, both the work capacity reform and child-related services, as well as educational projects and everything else, and is certainly an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U66	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U67	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U68	Mr. Prime Minister! The press has reported information from your government ministers that one or more very important plans to change the regime are still coming in this year. I have not quite understood what we are talking about, either the disappearance of rural governments, the loss of rural management posts or even the loss of counties. Maybe there's another four or five thing. Anyway, it's a very exciting subject and I'd like to hear some clarifications.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U69	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, there are two things you're right about. This government really has big plans, I'd say even weighty plans that we've discussed. Since this is an exciting subject, I also share with you our views. I'll start with the easiest, the losing of counties. Nobody loses counties. I don't know if that's the plan. It is true that certain counties are decreasing due to administrative reform, certain counties are increasing. For example, Lääne County is decreasing, Pärnu County is increasing. One concrete step that has been agreed in January, including the meeting of the cabinet of 12 January, is: we are moving towards the abolition of rural governments from 1 January 2018. However, none of the services currently provided by the county government can be cancelled. For this reason, an analysis is currently being carried out on which of the services provided by rural governments will go into the competence of the local government and which will fall within the competence of either the central government, the ministry or certain agencies. It has been said that the Land Office could have more powers, but the analysis is still underway. No decision has yet been taken on the land parents. However, the abolition of rural governments is evidently also linked to the position of rural elders. I myself believe that, during the transitional period, someone should also be on the ground as a representative of the country, and this is also part of the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U70	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U71	Thank you, Prime Minister, for this very clear answer. Of course, it remains to think about what could be important for counties if there are no more rural governments, whether it only has some kind of decorative historical meaning or something else. But I have also heard such stories somewhere that, in principle, there could be a smaller system, such as a system of four state agencies or units, which would replace the functions of the current rural governments. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U72	Thank you. There have been various pieces of thought that have been heard. I do not know whether the question is whether there could be so-called state buildings or whether there could be four regional centres across Estonia. No, no specific decisions have been made. As I said, an analysis is currently underway, which services go to local governments and which come to ministries or administrations that are administered. I certainly consider it important that the regional dimension or regional organisation cannot be completely removed from the current counties. The question is how life will proceed beyond 1 January 2018, and certainly this must also be part of our analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U73	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U74	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We had a meeting last week with Mikhail Korb, who said that the current county elders would probably be laid off before the end of their term of office. There will be regional coordinators who will disperse the functions of rural governments and must ensure a smooth transition to the new system. Do you already know and can you tell us what the exact tasks of these coordinators are? How long, then, are they in office, either for a fixed term or for an indefinite period? What is the procedure for setting or selecting them? Can you clearly assure us that the current government is not going to plant any party owls there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U75	Thank you for your question. The point is, as I replied to Mr Jüri Adams, a member of the Riigikogu, that we cannot completely lose this dimension of regional policy. What are the tasks of the coordinators? The government has taken this direction so that certain agencies can go to the county or county centres. This is certainly one concrete thing with a regional political dimension. The second question is that if we have new municipalities, larger municipalities, the state or central government will have to give them elbow feeling and help and offer them cooperation, as well as deciding who this person is or who these people are. The third issue is also certainly that once the rural governments have completed their work, a smooth transition of responsibilities should be ensured to local governments and ministries. One of your questions was whether the employment contracts of the officials responsible for national regional policy are time-barred or time-limited. I think that these should still be for specific tasks to be carried out over a given period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U76	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. It's 1:58. In the remaining time, all I can do is explain what happens next. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! Thank you, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U77	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 5th working week session on Wednesday. Please bring me all the drafts and enquiries you have prepared now. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U78	Honourable Chairman! [[???Vahelehüüded saalist: 'Me ei kuule, mis sa räägid. Räägi kõvemini!'???]] Harder than that? Then let's start over. We have an inquiry to the Minister of State Administration, Mikhail Korb. As many who have previously been in opposition know, a member of the Riigikogu receives information from the media, not from the government. We now want to know about the plans of the Minister of Public Administration, who wants to take state institutions out of Tallinn. We have four questions. The information we're asking our questions on, we got from the Postman yesterday. The questions are as follows: What analyses are the basis for the relocation of public authorities and national foundations? How will jobs be filled in new regions with the necessary skills? When is the plan to start the removal of state agencies from Tallinn and what is the final date for the completion of the plan? It is clear from the article that there are no plans to move public authorities to certain counties and cities. Why is such a choice made? The Minister of State Administration now has the opportunity to explain all this to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U79	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the issue of the countries of the Estonian Plant Production Institute has reached such a stage that more than 10% of the countries are being sold. We therefore have very specific questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs. We want him to explain to Parliament how this has happened and why nothing has been done or done to prevent such a thing from happening. I very much hope that the Minister for Rural Affairs will respond to us very clearly and correctly this time. The regrettable thing is that, if there is a great deal of talk about the removal of institutions from Tallinn, only 22% of the staff of the Ministry of Rural Affairs is located in Tallinn and the Institute of Plant Production is one of the examples that the institution is located outside of Tallinn. However, as the land fund decreases there, it is clear that the Institute will have to move away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U81	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Education Reps. The Minister of Education has made many confusing statements in different parts of Estonia, which give rise to the opinion that the principles of the school network reform have been abandoned. Consequently, the ambition to improve education and to spend money on the content of education, on the pay of teachers and on the diversity of education has been abandoned. A specific inquiry concerns state secondary schools, which are, you can say, a success story of Estonian education and reforms. State gymnasiums have begun to do brilliantly and to show themselves. We are concerned that the Minister of Education rather wants to remove the incentive that has created this quality, wants to give state secondary schools to manage and breathe life into small magymnasiums which, for objective reasons, fail to guarantee the diversity and quality of education and a decent salary for teachers. We have five questions and much more concerns about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U83	I have accepted three inquiries. If they meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I will send them to the Ministers. Incoming check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U84	The first item is the third reading of the Bill 346 of Amendment to the Defence Forces Service Act, the Prisons Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 346 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we do presence checks. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Defence Service Act, the Prison Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 346. Please take a stand and vote. There were 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 346 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Prisoning Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U85	The third reading of Bill 329 of the Act amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Act on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. On a proposal from the Commission, we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Act on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 329. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 329 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 329 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U86	The second reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 340 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur for the Rural Commission is Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U88	Wait a minute, Arno Bridge! I'm sorry! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U89	The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 21 November 2016. The first reading was completed on 11 January 2017. The deadline for submitting amendments was 25 January 2017. By this time in Inara Luis, a member of the Riigikogu, presented three proposals which are essentially related to each other. The draft has three objectives. Firstly, to organise and clarify the provisions on State aid in the light of established practice and European Union legislation. Secondly, to lay down the legal basis for support under regional programmes. Thirdly, to amend the provisions governing the implementation of the measures to control the wind globe in order to improve the prevention and reduction of the spread of the wind globe and to motivate land users to fight the wind globe more effectively. In addition to the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs, representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Enterprise Estonia and the Ministry of Finance participated in the debate on the provisions on regional programmes. A representative of the Setomaa Municipality Association was also invited, but he did not show up and later orally expressed the opinion that the draft law adequately regulates regional programmes. As a result of the consultation, it was considered that the relevant provisions could be clarified. The Commission also asked the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation for its opinion on the regulation of the control of the wind globe. Both replied that they were positive about the changes and were satisfied with them. The Rural Commission prepared 340 second readings at its meeting on 6 February with representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Six amendments from the Rural Affairs Committee were included in the list of amendments, in addition to the proposals submitted by Inara Luis, which were listed as a single proposal under the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The new text of the draft has been reviewed by the language editor; the linguistic specifications proposed by him are mentioned in the draft text. Most of the proposals included in the list of amendments are technical and text-specific. Therefore, no substantive changes have been made. I now report the decisions of the Committee on Rural Affairs: to propose a draft 340 on the agenda of the plenary assembly on 15 February (consensus decision), to propose a second reading of the draft (also a consensual decision), to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed (also a consensual decision), and to put it to the 340 final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U90	Questions for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U91	Thank you. Honourable waitress! For the sake of the stenogram, I would like to clarify one thing. Your little imprecise dictation touched my ear. You mentioned a ball of wind several times. Did you mean a ball of wind, a ball of fire, or an oat of wind?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U92	Wind oat. I'm sorry! Wind Oats. [[Laughing.]] That's a good point for the farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U93	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This bill deals very much with regional programmes. What will become better when implementing these regional programmes? One point in the draft law states that funds for regional programmes can only be distributed by an institution with sufficient experience. What do you mean, "ample experience" in a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U95	The point is that the distribution of these grants is carried out every year under this law in accordance with a procedure determined by the Minister. But why every year? This is because these grants are linked to the state budget. If the budget changes a little bit here or there, these amounts may also change. That is why this law itself has not yet exactly fixed these amounts, because they are re-established each year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U96	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U97	Thank you! My question, too, concerns the wind oat. The wind oar is a pain in the ass, all the farmers know it. In the old days, there was a saying that you were sowing oats, cutting the wind, i.e. you couldn't get much. But I remember, in the old days, or what used to be, a few years ago, there were also support measures for the eradication of wind oat. I will first ask how large a surface is estimated to be in Estonia. That was certainly something that was also mentioned in the Commission. Secondly, are support measures available? If so, how much are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U98	I'm sure there's support measures, but I can't tell you how big I'm gonna be. I'm gonna owe you an answer. But the wind oar is indeed a very great scourge. At present, it is estimated that the area of arable land may be contaminated with wind oat even more than 50%, so it is a very serious scourge. However, in the case of wind oat, the difference is that administrative regulation seeks to reduce the burden on farmers and cooperatives in relation to wind oat so that they do not have to submit any additional reports on the occurrence of wind oat. The PRIA will also have more time if they do not have so much to deal with these reports. It is explained that they will then have more time to check the situation on the ground. But there are subsidies to liquidate the wind oat.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U99	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U100	Thank you! Good waitress! At first reading in this Chamber, it was quite unclear how these changes will help us to fight this very wind oat. Today, too, you said that everything is actually getting a little looser. After the first reading in the Commission, did you discuss and find out how the changes will ensure that the fight against wind oat is more effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U101	The role of wind oat in the Commission was not particularly discussed. I was currently following the government's explanation of what will change in the case of wind oat: reducing reporting, but at the same time increasing on-the-spot checks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U102	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I repeat the second half of my question, which you have not answered. Was there any mention of this in the Commission, and how do you yourself understand the notion that a state can provide support through a foundation with sufficient experience? How was this term'satisfactory experience' interpreted? Did you talk about it in the Commission? How do you figure that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U104	This was not discussed in the Commission, but it is done through the PRIA, which has experience in distributing all kinds of grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U105	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In this Chamber, questions have been raised as to whether all this sharing through these programmes has been transparent. Can you confirm, on the basis of these discussions and the procedure of this bill, that it is also ensured that any separation of funds is transparent and clear, so that there are no doubts in this Chamber as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U107	Yes, there have been problems with transparency. The Commission had almost focused its attention on transparency, as there have been problems with the distribution of grants, especially in the award of support for the Setomaa development programme. It is not clear to all people how these sums were distributed, for what, for what events, etc. Inara Luis has therefore put forward proposals to improve transparency, which have been included in the list of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U108	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U109	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to this bill, I would like to say that not everything is as bad as some people here think it is, and as even the debate in the Commission turned out. Because of the amendments tabled, it was as if I had been accused as if someone wanted to control the activities of NGOs or associations, the use of money, etc., on the basis of my proposals. No, it's far from that. The story is simply that certain programmes, including the Setomaa Development Programme Action Plan and the programme part, do not describe the level at which this must be the "transparency" level. I'm glad you asked, Urmas. We also discussed this in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and we both understood that all this transparency and openness to the use of money are inadequately regulated for these programmes. It's been that way for a long time. This proposal also puts these programmes on an equal footing with other programmes. I think you will agree with me when I say that it is not normal for people living in a programme area to read what projects are in the region and how much financial support is being given to certain activities, do not know what has been done for this money. This proposal introduces one amendment which regulates the receipt of grants as well as information. It does not make sense if the applicants simply receive enough money from the programme in response to the request. Here, too, it must be regulated in such a way that rejections are more justified. Money is always scarce and could be much more. All these programs are very necessary. However, for all applicants who receive a negative response, it must be justified why their project does not receive support from this programme. I would also like to say that these institutions with sufficient experience should also realise that the money that is distributed through programmes is not private money, but public money, our taxpayers' money. Its use must be clearly understood by the public. We had such a little groveling in the Commission that maybe the cells are small and there is no room for the explanations that are being made for one or the other amount of money. Believe me, the boxes can be made bigger. These boxes must be filled in with all the activities that are carried out for shared money. A situation where only money is given and a date is written, but the activities are not described, is completely unacceptable. I would like to say that the reporting that currently exists between the institutions is sufficient. The participants in the programme certainly know in part what this activity is, but reporting is not sufficient if it is institutional reporting to each other, but must also be reported to the people of the region. This is extremely important because it creates trust, it spells more projects and it also creates trust in each other. I believe that this legislative amendment, a small sentence, will certainly benefit all the regions covered by these programmes. Thank you to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, who took that into account. Thank you also to EAS staff and to all Members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U110	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U111	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, You could go on with Inara saying that it's not that bad at all. I would like to inform the others that these programmes have recently been transferred to the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I think it's a good time to review how they've worked and how they work in perspective. A good colleague named Jaanus left now, but as he said about the wind oat, you can sow oats but only get wind. We all know that if you just let the wind oat grow, the yield will decrease so much that it is economically very damaging. What is very important is that the bureaucratic side of this business is as minimal as possible, but it would also give the opportunity, if necessary, to check, because it is not only a question of someone's personal yield, but also of what is going to happen in the fields of a neighbour. We also paid a lot of attention to ensuring that the side of bureaucracy is kept to a minimum. Another important thing is what Inara has already mentioned once that all such regional programmes have proven to be necessary. We in the Commission found that in some cases there could also be a communication problem within the community. Of course, it is better if some things are better regulated. Not everything was written into the law, but a signal was given to the Minister to give additional transparency and clarity through his signature, so that these subsidies could be properly and fairly distributed. In any case, I very much hope that the Ministry of Rural Affairs, along with the new government, will find more money for these programmes in the future, because we will see how many good projects will actually be left behind the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U112	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Seven amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and, of course, fully taken into account; the second is from the Committee on Rural Affairs; the third is from the Committee on Rural Affairs; the fourth is from the Committee on Rural Affairs; the fifth is from Inara Luis; the fifth is from the Committee on Rural Affairs; the sixth is from the Committee on Rural Affairs; and the seventh is from the Committee on Rural Affairs. Bill 340, second reading complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U113	The second reading of the Bill 323 of Amendment to the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U114	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was initiated by the Government on 7 November 2016. The first reading in this Chamber took place on 18 January and the deadline for tabling amendments was 1 February. No amendments were received and no amendments were made to the draft by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On 6 February the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared a second reading of this draft. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior also took part in the meeting. The regulation introduced in the draft was previously enshrined in the Digital Signature Act. However, as of 26 October 2016, the Digital Signature Act is invalid, so the Identity Documents Act provides for the suspension of the certificate entered on the document, the renewal of the suspended certificate and the revocation of the certificate. At its meeting, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made procedural decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 February and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U115	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Ken-Marti Vaher! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled. The second reading of Bill 323 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U116	The second reading of the draft law amending the law on the acquisition, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act starts. Social Affairs Committee waitress Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U117	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, So, a draft law amending the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs and state fees. This was discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs in preparation for the second reading at four sessions: 15 and 22 November 2016 and 6 and 13 February 2017. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs took part in the discussions on the amendments. The Social Affairs Committee also asked the stakeholders involved to submit opinions. These interest groups were representatives of the University Hospital of Tartu Foundation and the Estonian Tissue and Organ Transplant Association, who also made their proposals for the draft text. The Committee on Social Affairs drafted amendments on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of Social Affairs and interest groups. The Social Affairs Committee decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 February 2017 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. When the second reading is closed, the Commission proposes to send a draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading. All decisions were taken by consensus. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U118	Questions for the waitress. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, It is known that this is an extremely interesting and somewhat forward-looking area, which is mentioned in this draft law. Can you specify from which third countries we will receive the cellular and tissue material used to produce medicines? It's not in the explanatory memorandum, and I had this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U120	Thank you! It has been brought from different countries at different times. I cannot tell you exactly which countries are coming from this year. This is not about bringing it to Estonia, it is simply about creating this opportunity. It is a regulation of the European Union. Indeed, it is being brought to the European Union from very many parts. I am not going to read these countries to you right now, because I do not have this list available. If I start to read out these third countries, I can screw up, maybe I'll name a country that hasn't been involved, and it could be a big fight. But if you really are interested in those countries that import into the European Union products of cells and tissues and medicines or preparations based on them, then I will be able to clarify it and send you this list if you ask me a question about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U121	Thank you, Viktor Vassilyev. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. There are seven amendments to the draft, all from the lead committee: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth and the seventh. The second reading of Bill 278 is complete. I would also like to thank the Commission for a very good explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U122	The second reading of Bill 355 of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws begins. The rapporteur is Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U123	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of Draft Act 355 amending the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws was completed in this Chamber on 19 January 2017. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 2 February. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on the Environment itself has tabled two amendments which are of a technical nature and do not change the content of the draft. Between the first and second readings, the draft was dealt with once at the Commission meeting, which took place on 9 February. The Commission did not open or consider it necessary to involve stakeholders in the discussion at the meeting, as this need did not appear during the procedure for the draft. The Commission took the following decisions: First, to propose sending a draft 355 for second reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu by 15 February. Secondly, propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped. Thirdly, when the second reading of the bill 355 is closed, we have a proposal to send the draft 355 for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 21 February and put the draft to the final vote. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U124	No questions for the waitress because there are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Two amendments have been tabled to bill 355, both from the Commission itself: the first and the second. The second reading of Bill 355 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U125	The approval of the 'Climate policy fundamentals' of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic begins the first reading of the draft 362 until 2050. The initiator's waitress is Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U126	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. President-in-Office of the Council. I will see how you have dealt with the items on today's agenda, and I can see that this is a very cost-effective working arrangement. You have already helped today to reduce the use of CO2 in Estonia and to meet the targets set for 2050. Thank you for that. You have been presented for discussion and adoption under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, the draft development document entitled 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050', which has been produced in the context of the most comprehensive stakeholder and expert involvement process so far. This document agrees for the first time on the long-term vision of Estonia's climate policy and on sectoral and economic policy guidelines that clearly foresee how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and better cope with the effects of climate change. The drafting of the development document 'Climate Policy Fundamentals 2050' was initiated by the decision of the Government's Cabinet meeting of 7 August 2014. Due to the global dimension of climate change, 195 countries, including Estonia, in Paris in December 2015, decided that they would significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions and move towards a low-carbon economy. The Riigikogu ratified the Paris climate agreement on 26 October 2016. In line with the International Climate Agreement, the European Council in its conclusions of 2009 has also set the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union by 80 to 95% by 2050, compared to 1990. The document on the fundamentals of climate policy is needed because Estonia's current climate change mitigation policy does not reflect the country's long-term greenhouse gas reduction targets and the country must have a vision in order to implement the above-mentioned binding international EU climate policy. Secondly, this is necessary because the current polluting carbon-intensive society is not sustainable or competitive in the long term. Thirdly, it is also an opportunity to develop an attractive environment from Estonia for research, development and export of innovative green technologies and products and services that reduce emissions. Clear climate policy also motivates the private sector and society to act in the same direction, and a nationally agreed framework gives investors the confidence to make decisions that are in line with national and international long-term objectives. The document of the fundamentals of climate policy sets the long-term goal of Estonia's climate policy that by 2050 Estonia will have a competitive low-carbon economy and Estonia's greenhouse gas emissions will have to decrease by almost 80% compared to 1990 emissions. This means, however, gradually and purposefully transforming the economy and energy system into a more resource-efficient, productive and environmentally friendly one. The key elements of climate policy focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating climate change in the areas of energy, transport, industry, agriculture and forestry, as well as ensuring country preparedness and capacity to minimise the negative impacts of climate change and make better use of the positive impacts. The fundamentals of climate policy have developed sectoral policy guidelines for moving towards the long-term goal, according to which, by 2050, the carbon emissions of the Estonian energy economy, including transport, must be reduced decisively and substantially. This means replacing polluting energy production with predominantly local renewable energy production and greater enhancement of domestic oil shale resources. Additional energy savings in energy will need to emerge in the coming decades through smart grids and more sustainable households. Transport pollution must be reduced as a result of the reduction in the need for forced movement and the development of public transport, light traffic and low-carbon transport systems. In addition, the ability to capture carbon from Estonian forests and soils must be increased and more stored in timber products made in Estonia. Wood of poor quality can be used instead of non-renewable resources. It is also important to increase agricultural productivity and the efficiency of fertiliser use by replacing mineral fertilisers with organic fertilisers. The transition to a resource-efficient circular economy will in turn help to decouple economic growth from the use of primary raw materials. In order to better adapt to the effects of climate change, the functioning of the economy, including energy and other infrastructure, must be ensured, and negative health impacts must be prevented and mitigated. It is also important to increase people's preparedness for emergencies and rescue capacity. I would like to point out that, in principle, the basic development document for climate policy is in the form of an umbrella document, and that these policies are implemented not as separate actions, but through the implementation of sectoral development plans. Thus, options for specific policies and their impact assessments will be made in sectoral development plans such as the transport development plan, the energy economic development plan, the forestry development plan, the climate change adaptation development plan, etc. As policies are implemented through development plans, the financing of specific activities is also planned in the cost forecasts and implementation plans for the sectoral development plans. In general terms, the public budget contributes to the implementation of the fundamentals of climate policy from both national tax revenue and external resources, including, for example, the European Union's Structural and Investment Funds and the funds for the environment, transport, energy, the promotion of information technology and other funds for greenhouse gas emission allowances trading, the European Economic Area cooperation programme and other bilateral and multilateral cooperation instruments. Private investment is important for activities such as energy, transport, manufacturing and processing, as well as services. The fundamentals of climate policy were drawn up through a comprehensive and in-depth process of involvement, during which more than 80 stakeholders were consulted, including a number of associations, businesses, researchers. The impact of the implementation of the fundamentals of climate policy was assessed in five areas (energy and industry, transport, agriculture, forestry and land use and waste management), as well as across sectors. Four analyses were carried out to assess the impact of the implementation of the sectoral policy guidelines. The in-depth results of the analyses showed that the target set for 2050 will be met and that Estonia will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by close to 80%, which will have a positive overall impact on the economy and energy security. The current nature of the agreed policies will help ensure that the Ministry of the Environment regularly updates the development document and reports on its implementation to the Riigikogu every four years, starting in 2019. In concluding, I note that by choosing the path towards a low-carbon economy as described in the Climate Policy Development Document, Estonia will choose a development path that offers many opportunities, which will enable the greatest added value to be created with low environmental and health impacts and to move towards an economic and behavioural model that benefits businesses, the environment and society as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U127	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U128	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, I apologise in advance for my question being a little out of the scope of this bill. But I'm taking the chance that there's an experienced politician on the remote. Do you think that if this bill becomes a decision
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U129	Thank you and thank you for the credit! As an experienced politician, I promise, I will try to justify this recognition. I daresay the answer is yes. Pretty soon, we'll be hitting a target just as remote in the field of the earth. As far as climate science is concerned, in our forecasts, we have dared to go further, i.e. to the end of the century, trying to understand what would happen if we did nothing. I say that Tallinn University of Technology has been very well aware of what needs to be done. Their guiding principle or slogan is something that we are shaping the future today. This should also be done in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U130	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The presentation of this draft states that the policy guidelines for climate change mitigation have been set out since the prevention of further drainage of swamps. Is my information or the rumors I have heard correct that Estonia wants to start restoring the swamp? The other one is a little bit farther away from us. It's about melting ice glaciers. Supposedly, there has been some sort of opportunity to restore ice glaciers. Would you just comment a little on these two issues in terms of education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U132	Thanks! As far as your first question is concerned, I say that the rumors of the restoration of swamps in the future are true in that they are already being restored and have also been restored. This means that the pre-drained water regime will be restored, the end of the ditches will be closed and the sex will be reborn. This is already being done in tens of thousands of hectares, if not hundreds of hectares, and we can also use the European Union's taxpayers' funds to do this. As for the melting of glaciers, I improvise. It is certainly not possible to make a refrigerator where ice can be preserved, but if we put climate policy into practice, we can achieve a situation where melting ice glaciers is not as quick as it would be if we did nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U133	Thank you, Minister. The answers were so good, no one else would ask for anything. Kalle Palling, Vice-President of the Commission, will deliver a presentation on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U134	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Riigikogu decision 'The fundamentals of climate policy until 2050' was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at its meeting on Monday 23 January. Mr Metsoja, Mr Korb, Mr Kravtšenko, the speaker, Mr Mälberg, Ms Trei and Ms Kaur, who is the head of the adviser-secretariat, and Mr Older, who is the advisor, took part in the meeting of the Commission. The committee was chaired by Rainer Vakra. In addition, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Evelyn Müürsepp, Head of Climate and Radiation Department of the Ministry of the Environment, and Mart Raamat, Adviser to the Ministry were invited to the meeting of the Commission. The Commission held a debate on the adoption of the draft Decision 'Climate policy fundamentals for 2050'. Minister Marko Pomerants, who spoke here, explained that the document provides the direction for Estonian society to reach a low-carbon economy through economic activity and innovation. The long-term plan is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by almost 80% by 2050 compared to 1990. This will enable competitive growth to be maintained. The greatest potential for achieving the objectives is in the energy and industrial sectors, followed by the transport, waste and agricultural sectors. For example, by 2023, old oil shale dust boilers will be closed in Auvere to reduce the direct burning of oil shale. The development document has been drawn up for a long time in cooperation between the various parties. The chairman of the committee and other members of the committee wondered whether the development document would need to be amended in the coming years or whether it was a more general vision. Minister Pomerants, who was present at the Commission, remained firm and confirmed that this was a more general development document, but supplemented himself by saying that sectoral development plans, such as the development plan for transport, oil shale, forestry and the energy economy, would emerge from this development document, which would need to be adapted to the fundamentals of climate policy. It is also necessary to look at the areas in which these measures are cost-effective in order to achieve the objectives, and a separate study has been commissioned. It was decided to appoint 362 speakers to act as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 2 March. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U135	Questions for the waitress. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U136	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I couldn't ask the minister, and I'm asking you. We have discussed 'The 2030 Agenda for Adaptation to Climate Change' here, but now we have a more comprehensive and long-term document before us. It is certainly a very important document that fixes very important things. But why have they come in this order? It's like in the wrong order.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U137	Should you first have come up with the basics and then a climate change adaptation agenda? I think that a closer date means that it is possible to set earlier targets in more detail. I don't think there's any other question. Since a lot of things in this document are based on what was agreed last November or December in Paris, this has all been happening here in very logical order.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U138	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U139	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Kalle! Now, tell me honestly whether, next week, there will be another development plan to be expected from the Ministry of the Environment through your committee, or whether it will take a little more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U140	I don't know. Which development plan do you mean exactly? Was there a slight ironic anatomy in this matter? I don't quite get it. Can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U141	The Rules of Procedure do not provide for such a form, but no one wants to ask any more questions. Thank you, Kalle Palling! I'm opening negotiations. Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, would like to speak during the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U142	I do not want to kill your efficiency effort in any way, but I will say to Mr Talvik in answer so much that 'the fundamentals of Earthyard policy until 2050' are in the pre-government coordination circle. If you want to know about next week, I'm gonna have to tell you that you won't be able to play by then. But that's what I'm saying, one government has to have a vision!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-15_U143	The statement by the Minister for the Environment was based on § 71 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Dear Riigikogu, the first reading of Bill 362 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 2 March. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 2.57 p.m.
