ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Yes, it is. First, please, Küllik Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U2	Good vice chairman! Happy forthcoming Republican anniversary to all of you! In this regard, it is quite worth reminding us how important people are to us. This is why the Free Party Group is launching a draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act, the content of which is that this year, at the eve of the 100th birthday of the Republic, the state has a huge task: a successful administrative reform. The voluntary part is over, the government is in charge, but the current law is somewhat rigid and does not allow the government to be flexible and to take more account of people's own wishes regarding their natural environment, the existence of employment and educational institutions, cultural centres. That is why we have called our proposal a tender draft of self-determination for villages. Its content is that, taking into account both the citizens' initiatives and the results of the polls, it is possible for the government to make direct decisions in cases where one or more villages would like to join a municipality with which they share a common border. I hope that this aid measure will give the government a good opportunity to be more flexible and more face-to-face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U3	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I would like to hand over a draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Nature Conservation Act, which would ban the rearing of fur animals in Estonia during the 10-year transitional period. The initiators of the draft act are 14: From the Social Democratic Party I, Barbi Pilvre, Marianne Mikko, Hardi Volmer, Hannes Hanso, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luis and Eiki Nestor, from the Centre Party Heimar Lenk, Jaanus Karilaid and Oudekki Loone, and from the Reform Party Lauri Luik, Liina Kersna, Heidy Purga and Eerik-Niles Kross. The idea of the draft is, for ethical reasons, to ban the rearing of animals grown exclusively for fur purposes in Estonia by a transitional period. It's not about meat animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U5	Next, please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of a member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and appointment of a new member'. Due to § 8 of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act, the highest body of the Health Insurance Fund is the Board of Health Insurance Fund. The Council has 15 members and § 9 (2) of the aforementioned Act states that, on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, the Riigikogu appoints one member of the Supervisory Board from among its members. In addition, it includes ex officio the Minister of Health and Labour, the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The Social Affairs Committee asked the political groups of the Riigikogu to present their candidates as a member of the Health Insurance Fund Council. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposed that the Social Affairs Committee appoint Maris Lauri as a member of the Council. The other political groups of the Riigikogu did not make proposals. At its meeting on 20 February, the Social Affairs Committee decided by consensus to propose the appointment of Maris Lauri, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, and to submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu. That's what we're gonna do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-23_U8	Honourable Riigikogu! Today's only item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 340 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Looks like it's not. The commission's proposal is to put draft 340 to the final vote and we will go to the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 340 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 70 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, there was no one against it and one of the other members of the Riigikogu abstained. The bill has been passed as a law. Dear Riigikogu, our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish you all a beautiful Republican anniversary. Hopefully we'll meet many of you tomorrow morning at sunrise. Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
