ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! To my colleague Kalle Muuli, however, we wish you a happy New Year's Eve! We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an obligation to hand over a draft that has been initiated by the Committee on Culture. Its subject is the Riigikogu's decision to appoint members of the National Opera Council. According to the law, the Riigikogu has the right to appoint two persons from among its members to the National Opera Council. As changes have taken place, namely that Mart Helme and Laine Randjärv have wished to abandon their important and interesting office, the Committee on Culture, after consulting the political groups, decided that the new members could be Martin Repinski and Urve Tiidus. The proposal is to deal with this draft at a single reading in the Riigikogu, in so far as, according to the rules, it is only within the competence of the Committee on Culture to propose amendments and therefore several readings do not need to be done, all the more so since improvements have been made before the draft is submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further proceedings on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now we're going to do a presence check. 90 parliamentarians will attend the plenary session and 11th plenary session will be absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U4	Today, we have one item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Act amending the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft Act 'amending the Sea Labour Act and the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers' initiated by the Government of the Republic. The purpose of the Act is to transpose two directives into Estonian law. One concerns seafarers' employment rights and amends a number of existing directives, the other implements the European agreement of the social partners on the organisation of working time in the inland waterway transport sector. This is a beautiful technical draft, which has a very modest impact on the Estonian maritime sector, but because it is a directive of the European Union, we must also transpose it into our legislation. I will now briefly mention the individual changes that will result from the transposition of the directive. Firstly, as a result of the amendment of the Community-wide involvement of workers, the members of the crew of commercial ships working with a Community-wide operator or a group of Community-wide operators have the possibility to set up a European Works Council. At present, this possibility is guaranteed in all other sectors, where there is a Community-wide operator, and now it also arises in the maritime sector. This change is expected to affect only one company in Estonia, AS Tallink Grupp, which meets the criterion of a Community-wide operator. The Community-wide operator is an undertaking with a total of at least 1000 employees in the Member States of the European Union, including at least 150 employees in each of the two Member States. As a result of the amendment of the Maritime Labour Act, the notification of the collective cancellation of the maritime labour contract will be specified. According to the draft, the ship owner shall inform the competent authority of the country whose flag the ship is flying when the ship is flying the flag of another country of the European Economic Area. Of course, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund must be informed at the moment. The validity of a maritime labour contract will also be specified in the case of a transfer of a company. According to the draft, the transitional provisions shall not apply where the sole object of the transfer is seagoing vessels, in which case the maritime labour contracts shall not be transferred to the acquirer of the vessel in its unaltered state. There is also a change in inland waterway shipping. The Maritime Labour Act is complemented by differences in working time and rest periods in inland navigation for commercial purposes on inland waterway transport vehicles carrying goods or passengers. As a result, only in the latter case will the requirements apply, for example, to the maximum annual working time and the minimum number of rest days, which are somewhat different from those applicable to other workers and crew members. There is a chapter in this draft, Chapter 51 (I will say by memory), which we want to add to the law and where the requirements for the rest and working time of people working on inland waterway transport are very detailed. If we look at the impact on Estonian inland waterway transport, we will see that this effect is extremely small. We had four companies with fewer than 10 employees operating on our inland waterways in 2015, and there was no freight company in 2015. However, it is an agreement between the social partners at EU level that the working and rest requirements of inland waterway transport workers need to be regulated separately. Understandably, in other Member States of the European Union, inland waterway transport has significantly more developed and has a greater social and economic impact, and such an agreement between the European social partners was thus born. So let's take it into our own law. But the real impact on our economy and on our employees is extremely small, because neither type of company is very much involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask for a presentation of Mr Uno Kaskpeiti, vice-chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U7	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, On Tuesday 6 December 2016, the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and the law amending the Law on the involvement of workers in the Community was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department of Working Life Development of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Natalja Tuvi, lawyer of the Estonian Shipowners' Association. The Minister presented to the Commission the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Law on the Cross-Community Inclusion of Workers and the accompanying amendments. Marilis Proos stated that when a seaship comes to the estuary of the river, such as Pirita or Pärnu, the rules for people working on inland waterway transport do not apply. The Commission also asked a number of questions. The question also arose: since our inland waterways have many floating saunas, do people in the sauna also go under river shipping passengers? It was made clear that these people were not passengers. Urve Tiidus had a separate question. He asked for clarification as to whether the draft was accompanied by additional bureaucracy and who would monitor compliance with the requirements of the Directive. Marilis Proos explained that monitoring would remain the same, that working conditions would be monitored by the Labour Inspectorate, but that in the case of persons working under the Maritime Labour Act, the Maritime Administration would supervise under certain conditions. The following was decided: First, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 January (consensually), second, that the first reading should be closed (consensually), thirdly, that I should be appointed rapporteur (consensually), and fourthly, it was decided to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 16 January at 4 p.m. (also consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-10_U8	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mr Uno Kaskpeit. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 329. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 329 amendments at 16 January at 4 p.m. Today's session is closed, but not a working day. I wish you strength in the political groups and in the committees. I'll see you in this big hall tomorrow afternoon. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 10.13 a.m.
