ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! 43 members of the Riigikogu registered for information lessons. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs are members of the government. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U2	The first questioner is Hanno Pevkur and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Last week, some members of the Centre Party left the hall before the final vote on the draft on defence cooperation between Estonia and the United States, or did not vote. It was clearly their conscious choice not to support NATO. But that in itself isn't news for the public. I would rather hear from you the official position of the Centre Party in relation to NATO, as Mikhail Korb, who has also appeared against NATO and has now become Secretary-General, has expressed a similar position with those who have stepped out of this Chamber. What is the official position of the Centre Party and is it the same for both Estonian and Russian audiences?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! When you asked your question, you said that you believe that some members of the Centre Party do not support NATO and you expressed the idea that the Centre Party does not support NATO either, and that is not news at all. Don't overplay it! Sincerely, don't overplay it! I think this game may bring you a lot of votes in local elections, but it brings great divisions to Estonia's defence and foreign policy. This brings very large divisions to Estonia's coherence. Very respected President of the Reform Party and Member of the Riigikogu Hanno Pevkur, please do not overplay it in Estonian society! The Centre Party fully supports one hundred percent of Estonia's membership of NATO. The Centre Party supports the fact that Estonia is an active NATO state. This document, which you are talking about, passed the vote in the government, led by the Centre Party, with five political party members who all support NATO. My statements in the Estonian media, also in the Russian media, are common: the Centre Party supports NATO. We also support the European Union and believe that Estonia's defence capabilities need to be further developed. This is also the reason why the current coalition directs 60 additional million to our defence capacity investments. You also introduced the name of a member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Korb. He has given a clear answer: 'I support Estonia's membership of NATO. " He has resigned in less than a day. Please do not beat up Estonia on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U5	Hanno Pevkur, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister, this is where our opinions differ. There's no way I can agree with what you're saying about someone playing over here. Mikhail Korb was the one who, after giving an interview in Estonian, told the Russian ERR that he would not change anything in his words and repeat exactly what he said in Haapsalu and what was clearly anti-NATO. Now, from the different information space of Estonian and Russian audiences, this same Mikhail Korb interview is an ideal example of how you create a parallel world in the Centre Party. I have a specific proposal for you here. The city of Tallinn is currently buying programmes from PBK for more than half a million a year. Estonian National Broadcasting ETV+ has a budget of about three million and a little bit more. When you said that Sarapuu had to leave and thus you intervened in Tallinn's city's management, now tell Taavi Asa that you take half a million and put it in the channel ETV+. I think it's much more useful than buying from PBK. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U7	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. In a topic such as foreign policy, Tallinn City, PBK and ETV+, the links are certainly great. What do I say? I understand that you want to bring the town of Tallinn, the topic of local governments to the Riigikogu again. I've answered it before, and I'm gonna answer it today. I do not think that this is the place where the debates of Tallinn, Saaremaa rural municipality, Hiiumaa rural municipality or Viljandi city are to be held, but if a member of the Riigikogu asks about the capital, of course, if the President of the sitting does not intervene or say that there is a problem I will also answer about the city of Tallinn. First of all, the residents of Tallinn support the activities of this city's council, where there are different political groups, and also the activities of the city's administration are very large. I don't think the temptation you have in this room all the time can blame you. I understand that, Hanno Pevkur, because you must very seriously support your mayor candidate, Kristen Michal. That's the way it's supposed to be. I think that the residents of Tallinn, like other residents of Estonia from other municipalities, want to see what you want to do better in the local government. They want to see how you solve the transport issue and hear how the education issue or, for example, the food and lunch of kindergartens will be resolved, how the social issue is addressed, how cooperation with the state on medical care is done. I suggest you talk about these issues both in Tallinn and in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U8	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U9	Mr. Ratas, please don't overplay it! Do not take these positions and do not doce in front of the members of the Riigikogu. The question Hanno Pevkur asked was relevant. 80% of non-Estonians are supporters of the Centre Party and 31% of non-Estonians have NATO support. Pay attention! In this context, the very relevant question is why you put a man named Mikhail Korb, who in the Russian 'Actual Camera' said that he would not support NATO and would say it again next time, as the party's secretary-general. Why did you promote him and praise him? What is his message to party supporters about NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U10	Thank you. After all, I could rhetorically ask back what the Reform Party has done over the years to increase this support in Estonia. But I'm not gonna ask you that. I think that the fact that there is a high level of NATO support among the Estonian population of over 70%, even 72%, is important. Furthermore, it is important that we do not say here in Estonia that these are other people and these are our people. I think the last party that wants to create this gap all the time could stop breaking it. These are our people! All 1.3 million are our people, for whom we must stand, whether they speak Estonian or Russian at home or any other language. If they work here, pay taxes, have a family here, and their grandchildren go to school here, they're our people. Next, if one party receives support in one way or another, it will receive support from the people of Estonia. Now from Mikhail Korb, which is really a powerful topic of foreign policy. Why did he become secretary general? I really don't have to report to you, a member of the Reform Party, why one person becomes the secretary-general of another party. But I can do it kindly because he's a strong man. He has certainly not said anywhere that Estonia should not belong to NATO. He has officially announced that he is in favour of Estonia being part of NATO, but he has nevertheless assumed responsibility and resigned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U12	The next question is for Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U13	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Rail Baltic's cost-benefit analysis was carried out by a company called EY. Its analysis shows that, in socio-economic terms, Rail Baltic is very profitable. However, Estonian experts have taken these calculations into account and prove that the wrong source data and the socio-economic benefits that EY's analysis shows have been estimated at 4.1 billion. It is known that CEF will not finance projects that are not socio-economically viable. I'm sure you've got the same calculation at the Ministry. What's your move now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U14	Dear Artur Talvik, I thank you for this question. The Ministry of Economic Affairs will certainly take all experts and their calculations very seriously. We therefore made an inquiry to the European Commission as soon as the argument that the cost-benefit analysis carried out by the EY company had been based on the wrong data. Of course, it is important for us that socio-economic analysis be accepted by the European Commission, because without it, the project cannot go any further. We received a preliminary rapid response that the cost-benefit analysis was based on the European Commission's guidance and the initial task of carrying out the work. All these aspects have been assessed on the basis of the European Commission's CBA guide. Similar guidelines are used in Estonia to assess the socio-economic impact of other important infrastructure projects. So this guidance material has been the basis for road projects, but also for water projects, for example. The preliminary confirmation that the cost-benefit analysis of this respected company meets the requirements is, in my opinion, a good way forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U15	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U16	Thank you! These initial tasks and the way it was done were certainly correct. But what I'm paying attention to is the information that EY has used the wrong data. For example, old data have been used for the pollution of cars; they are not based on today's cars' pollution volumes. In such a case, should the Government not suspend and postpone ratification of the Rail Baltic Treaty until the disputes have been held?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U17	The validation of such necessary quality analyses is subject to quality control. The EY analysis involves experts used by the European Commission's Directorates-General for Mobility, Transport and Regional and Urban Policy to evaluate large-scale transport infrastructure development projects. Now, the question is, as if the allowance had not taken into account which cars will be driving on Estonian roads in the future. It has been a principle that the analysis is based on existing laws and current circumstances. And now we have this situation where heavy goods vehicles are driving on Estonian, Baltic and European roads, which are eight years old in the middle. So let us admit that if the analysis had been made on the assumption that in 2026 all cars on our roads would have been brand new, it would have seemed overstretched rather than a reality-compliant analysis, which says that all heavy goods vehicles on the roads in 2026 are not the newest or the least polluting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U18	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U19	Good Chairman! Good minister! I'll continue with a question I didn't get an answer to on Monday. The National Audit Office points out that the provision of Rail Baltic as a new service is not required by law for the state. I asked you which laws were the state service, because when you answered the question, you said that Rail Baltic was a public service. Please state the laws that say it is a public service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U20	We have certain investments made by the private sector because they are profitable. The state also has certain needs in order for its inhabitants to be able to move and for entrepreneurship and future investment to find a favourable growth environment that private investors do not offer. And then there are two options: whether such investments will not occur in our country, or whether we will invest them for the money of the Estonian state that invested them, or also in combination with European funds. Infrastructure is one of those tasks. We keep up the existing 1520 mm rail infrastructure, we invest in highways, we keep up the ferry connection. Undoubtedly, in the case of Rail Baltic, after we were able to decide in 2014 that the stop is not only in Tallinn, but it will also come to Rapla and Pärnu, we will ensure a rapid rail connection in one region. Now, on the other hand, it is certainly a step that will contribute to our future economic growth. This is not my personal understanding, it is not the understanding of the supporters of Rail Baltic, but it has also been referred to by international rating agencies, the latter being Standard & Poor's, who said that it would certainly support our long-term and continued growth and investment in rail projects. The decisions to build Rail Baltic have been made years before today. The first move, as the National Audit Office showed, was made on behalf of the then Prime Minister Andres Tarand. And with this ratification treaty, which will come to the Riigikogu on Monday, we will not accept any new commitments and will not change the commitments already made. I think this is a pretty important knowledge for people who support the ratification of an international agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U22	Asks Arno Bridge and answers Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As is well known, there are three European countries - Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic - with differing views on the problem of receiving refugees. Therefore, my question is what is the position of Estonia, the position of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U24	Thank you. The question is raised in a relatively general way. As regards the position of the Estonian Government, Estonia has expressed this by participating in the mechanism for the redistribution of refugees and, of course, in all the discussions that preceded the creation of this mechanism. I expect the core of your question to be linked to recent news that the European Commission may launch infringement proceedings against these three countries. Such a right in the case of the Commission is a direct consequence of the underlying agreements in Europe. Article 258 of the consolidated version of the basic agreements states: 'If the Commission considers that a Member State has failed to fulfil an obligation under the Treaties, it shall give a reasoned opinion on this. ' If the State concerned does not comply with that opinion, the Commission may refer the State to the European Court of Justice. This is certainly the Commission's right. There have been quite a number of infringement proceedings against Member States on various issues. These legal disputes have resulted in different results, in some cases the right to the Commission and sometimes the right to a Member State. More generally, it is certainly the principle that the obligations arising from the legislation and in respect of which one or the other party has been critical at the time of their proceedings must also actually be fulfilled. Here, we certainly fully respect this principle, but the internal dimension of migration in terms of the organisation of work of the Estonian government is more in the area of administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. On the other hand, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I look at the possible legal dispute ahead with considerable concern, because it will certainly put considerable pressure on European internal solidarity and unity, which is not in the interests of Estonia as one Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U25	Arno Bridge, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Now, as far as I know, Hungary and Poland have brought this problem to court, but it is not known when this court settlement will come. So how does the European Union behave? Does it want to do something before the court settlement comes? What is your opinion on this? That's one. And secondly, are there any other countries that intend to act like these three, or are there no more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U27	Thank you. First of all, once again, I think you're somewhat wrong about the addressee. The European Union as a whole and, for example, the internal dimension of European migration policy are certainly not foreign policy for the Estonian state. However, I do believe that the internal and external dimensions of migration are, in a certain sense, inseparable, so I am happy to try to answer you. A court dispute as to whether one or the other instrument is binding on a Member State and binding on it or not is certainly a completely legitimate way to determine how European law is to be implemented on one or the other. In this sense, I would certainly not demonise in any way if one or the other Member State, or the Commission, is prepared to refer its opinion or position to the European Court of Justice. I, who have been in this Chamber for quite a long time on opposition bench and have also voted on several occasions against the laws that are finally adopted and implemented, believe that these laws, when adopted in a legitimate way, are also mandatory for me to comply. This is despite the fact that I have had a disagreement during the procedure. The interpretation that I was critical of these legislations already at the time of their processing, and I can therefore, as if, withdraw from them, I certainly do not approve. At the same time, in understanding the sensitivity of this whole issue, and having actually seen in the past how one or the other step of the European Union's sanctioning nature has had a very negative impact on support for the Union, I look with great concern at the possible forthcoming legal dispute on the redistribution of refugees and quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U28	Thank you. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U29	Thank you. Fortunately, we have come a little closer to this question, which we had, whether Estonia is more in the position of defending the sovereignty of these countries or thinks that Brussels has the right to roll over the countries. Through the flowers I realized that we still have some sort of small desire to see sovereignty preserved. But I have a simple question. After all, this whole dispute is actually ruthlessly revealing how unvoluntary the whole quota system is. Estonia has always talked about how quotas are voluntary and all the so-called refugees we accept here have been voluntarily taken. However, those countries that did not voluntarily accept refugees are now being threatened with fines, under the heavy fists of the Commission. After all, it goes back to sovereignty. If some countries decide that the Commission has no right to send us people here, then so it is. And when the Commission starts pushing it through with force, we have the right to restore our sovereignty and leave the European Union. Don't you think that's what's gonna happen if the Commission continues this heavy fist tactic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U30	Thank you. If you answer strictly only the question at the end of your speech, then no. In my opinion, Estonia and the other 27 countries of the European Union are not currently facing such a radical step to decide to leave the European Union. I am optimistic about the future of the European Union, despite the fact that the next two years will certainly be difficult in the light of the Brexit negotiations. There is certainly a 'legal side' on this issue. As I have already said many times, I do not think that we ourselves can apply or comply with the binding legislation adopted in any way selectively, i.e. we cannot only comply with those that we like and not comply with those that we do not like. If there is a reasoned opinion that one or the other instrument is not binding, it is certainly possible to refer that opinion to the court for confirmation. In fact, this is a very sensible way of resolving a difference of opinion, because in such cases there are certainly worse ways of finding out the truth than a judicial dispute. Sovereignty is nothing to do with the Member States or with the European Union. Indeed, we have surrendered our sovereignty in a number of areas, due to the very complex contractual base of the European Union. We have not handed it over to some abstract third party, but have given the European Union joint decision-making powers on some issues, so we ourselves are, to a lesser or greater extent, codecision. As such, this issue of 'governance' must also be seen not only in the context of migration, but also more broadly. I think it is extremely reasonable to represent our interests in the world on a number of issues that are important to us, including security, using a much greater weight and visibility of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U32	Asks Jürgen Ligi, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U33	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I must start again with the fact that you are giving public speeches to members of the Riigikogu lately. You spoke to me about my language again this week. Don't do it! Please note that my teachers have been much smarter than you and I have also been a better student. Definitely. But where you need to look bigger, as big as possible, is definitely a language policy. That's my question now. We have also proposed that the Estonian education system should become unified so that Estonians-Russians study together and in one language. Please tell me what you think of this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U34	Thank you. I think that this effort, that we can teach Estonian better, more effectively, is right in any case. If you ask me what I think of it, I will in any case support it at kindergarten level, be it at school level, be it at teacher preparation level, be it for books or workbooks. It is certainly the right course to help those young people whose home language or native language is Russian, so that they can have as good competitive opportunities and conditions as young people who speak Estonian if they want to go to university and move from there to the labour market. I think that improving and contributing to language learning in Estonia is commendable in any case. If the parties want to think about it together and on this subject, say, not to build walls, but vice versa, bridges, I think that this is the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U35	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U36	Thank you for that answer. The essence of this proposal is to build bridges, but even more to break walls. In the meantime, the Human Development Report has also come up, and the Integration Report has also come up, confirming in the debate on the Human Development Report that the rapporteur said it literally, that it is not language learning. This is not more language learning; it is not enough. Learning together is important; it is important what social networks are becoming. Coping that way in life is the solution, not just language learning. How would you answer this question on the basis of the new information on which I was based when I proposed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U37	Thank you. I certainly wouldn't oppose them. But language learning in other rooms and, let's say, in forms other than school hours is, in my opinion, the right direction. Language training in extracurricular activities, such as greater cooperation between Estonian-speaking and current Russian-speaking schools. I think it's the right way to go. I'm good at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U38	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear that you are very positive, cheerful and supportive about strengthening Estonian language learning and the Estonian School. As we know, in April of this year we have a new Language Council, which will also prepare a new Estonian language strategy for the years 2018 to 2027. In the light of these new starting points, should a new positive attitude come into our language strategy? As Prime Minister, how strongly can you support this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U40	Thank you. As I said to the previous questions, Mr Ligi, I think that any desire to raise the level of education in Estonian at different levels of education is correct. After all, the current coalition has also said that we want to make distinctions for certain schools. If they wish to switch to more flexible language learning, they will also have a threshold higher than that of a student graduating from upper secondary school or high school, then they will no longer be at level B2, but will already be at level C1. I think it's actually good. This is the subject that is very right before the elections, because then there will also be discussions on how to bring better language learning to kindergartens. If we look at the Human Development Report, it is quite clear here: the report on monitoring the integration of Estonian society states that there is a consensus among Estonian and Russian-speaking residents regarding the transition to partial Estonian-language education in kindergartens. Now that you are asking about this strategy, I think that the positions of the Human Development Report will certainly be taken into account when drawing up the strategy. If you ask me what my or the government's contribution to this is, then Estonian-language houses are written in the agreement of the government coalition. There are a lot of concrete measures here, as well as money, budget, in order to improve Estonian language learning in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U42	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser is asking Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would like to end this season with your help on such a completely political-intelligent issue, perhaps to ask where the European idea is going. Especially from this example, which is now the major election of Macron and his movement in France. The second round of parliamentary elections is still ahead, but everyone talks about traditional parties losing, especially the Social Democrats. So far, we have had the overwhelming interpretation of politics that confrontation is what may have a negative impact on society, but it brings votes in elections. Still, it's a right-wing and left-wing fight up very sharp. Now one man, one party in France, wins the election under the slogan 'Ni de droite, ni de gauche', i.e. neither right nor left. What conclusions do we draw from this, and what conclusions do the Social Democrats draw?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U44	I certainly do not represent the positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Government of the Republic of Estonia in response to this extraordinary philosophical question. It is clear that major changes are taking place in European society, some of which are due to long-term political alienation, some of which are reflected in increasing political polarisation, some certainly reflect a certain reaction to political polarisation and some antagonisation of political party views. We have seen such enthusiastic elections, where a very large part of the electorate can be mobilised, not on a 'traditional ideological axis', but around another idea. If we go back a little, then in 2008, for example, the Presidential elections in the United States and some time later, just a few years ago, for example, in the Canadian elections, even though it can be said that it was a traditional party that was able to mobilise public opinion around such an inspiring idea, and now, lastly, in the French elections. However, surprises in the elections to the large European countries are not limited to France. The recent parliamentary elections in Britain also probably gave a very surprising result to many who followed the electoral campaign, both inside and outside. To a certain extent, the search in society is also reflected by the fact that changes in technological and information technology, as well as changes in the labour market and the nature of work, have been very rapid. Not all levels of society and stakeholders have been able to accompany them. That is why we can certainly see such political shocks in the future in the conditions of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U45	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I think political shocks are necessary from time to time in order to put such an outstanding elite in order. The chairman of your party at last week's congress proved that a very young chairman is based on a very old opposition philosophy. Wouldn't it be more appropriate for the Estonian Social Democrats to see now that Martin Helme is the next questioner to come out of this heroic EKRE confrontation and to ease the tension? It seems to me that in order to deal with Le Pen, Macron's tactics were actually very effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U47	Thank you. I wouldn't be drawing any direct parallels. I believe that the political landscape of every European country is largely unique. Of course, these pan-European political families reflect something, but there are certainly not only similarities but also significant differences. I am pleased that you read or even listened to the speech by Mr Ossinovski at the General Assembly of Social Democrats in Pärnu. I think it was a very substantial speech. And if you are looking for criticism of other Estonian political parties, you can also, to a considerable extent, find criticism of certain trends in European social democracy. It is true that the change in the nature of work caused by the development of information technology and the movement of jobs between different sectors of the economy are certainly causing concern and confusion among people who have so far been busy in these declining sectors of the economy. It's understandable. This often involves, for example, the movement of certain electoral groups, who have traditionally chosen, for example, Labour or Social Democrats, on the other side of the policy, as they hope to find some sort of miraculous solutions. At the same time, the solutions proposed by the Estonian Social Democrats speak of the need not to seek solutions from somewhere in the golden past, when the dominant industries were the heavy industry and the mining industry, but to focus their eyes on the future, where those economic areas that bring growth and create opportunities are located somewhere else and actually require a much greater contribution from society to human resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U48	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You have listed a number of changes here that have led to political bubbles. Somehow, changes in population or demographics, the largest migration, were excluded from this list, which is a very important influence of European political discourse. But we're not gonna poke you on this again. I have a question. While this whole discussion has focused on the French and Macron themes, a great new duo has emerged in Europe, called "M&M" or Merkel and Macron, who, with indiscreet enthusiasm and very selfless, are pushing the bottom of the gas to Europe, say, further federalisation or centralisation of power more indirectly to Brussels. But it is clear that, of course, the departure of the British will also contribute to the axis of power in these two countries. How do you think that Estonia will now be able to maintain its official position that the European Union is still a union of nation states and that we still have our sovereign rights under the Treaty and because of the referendum mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U50	Thank you. Using the whole position, the human potential and the visibility we have, and convincing arguments, we certainly have the opportunity to promote Estonia's positions. As far as demographic trends are concerned, in addition to migration, one of Europe's trends is certainly an ageing and declining population. In terms of population development, we cannot actually forget that either. Of course, with all these frightening trends for us, we must soberly analyse the extent to which we can change and guide them and then try to make sensible political decisions. To the extent that we are unable to change or influence these things, we need to adapt to them in a way that most respects our own interests and needs and allows different risk scenarios to be avoided. This is what Estonia can and must do. However, speaking of Macron's victory both in the presidential elections and now in the first round of his new political power, I am delighted that, although European issues may not have been decisive, it is impossible to analyse it ex-post, however, unlike, for example, the Dutch electoral campaign, where the winning'mainstream' political forces were forced to move towards the edge in political terms in order to maintain their positions, Macron was able to deal with all the socio-economic issues that were important to the French in a very pro-European key. It should also encourage other politicians and political forces in Europe to talk about issues that are important to people, to propose solutions, some of which are very bold solutions. If you are thinking, for example, of the forthcoming reforms of France's labour policy or the needs of the reform, these...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U52	... demands great political courage, great political capital. But Macron...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U54	... dared to speak of them and bring home the victory, speaking of them in a very European key.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U56	Mart Helme's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Excuse me for first saying a small reply to the reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are two very different things: the European mindset and the European Union's mindset. It is also worth remembering by our politicians. Prime Minister, I'm sorry I didn't come to you immediately. My question relates to the new Minister for Finance and to the fact that his entry into office directly has been accompanied by scandals of great concern. One thing is that he has made fictitious bills in earlier business activities, for which he cannot, of course, be punished now because they are outdated, but all of this clearly leaves a moral mark on his person. Another issue is the scandal about the misuse of PRIA money involving a close relative and a business partner of the Minister. Do you think that, with the new policy, the promise you made to the government is consistent with the holding of such a finance minister in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U58	Thank you for that question. We have had two options in Estonia, which I have been following, i.e. in my opinion there are two obligations that the Prime Minister must do. One thing is that he must have a personal conviction about the people who come to his government office, a personal conviction that their background, their beliefs are in order, and certainly our foreign and security policy position. The other side is that coalition governments have such a practice that each coalition partner proposes to form its own composition. As we know, on 13 May, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have elected a new chairman and also a new presidency, and I think three people have been proposed to take up the office of minister in the Government of the Republic, one of them being Toomas Tõniste. Yes, I have talked to him, and I have certainly studied this subject a little more closely than it is written in the media. I think that, first of all, Thomas Tõniste will be able to do his job well in the future and, second, he will definitely fit in with the government. Thirdly, of course, I respect and support the choices made by the coalition partner and its chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U59	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U60	Thank you for your answer. But I have to tell the chief that we absolutely disagree with you. If one of the Swedish ministers in our neighbouring country resigned because of the misuse of a credit card because it simply bought pantyhose, it's still very trivial in our definition, then in your opinion, a person with clearly fixed and identified troubles in his business is suitable as a minister. And you're convinced that even before he's even actually taken office, he's gonna be able to do it. There's no way we can agree to that. When it talks about a new political culture, we have a somewhat different understanding of culture. So I ask whether you are sure that you will manage the government if you have already been forced to leave your government two middle party ministers and one coalition partner has replaced a number of ministers. Do you think it might be necessary to redesign your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U61	Thank you. The question is clear, I believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U62	Thank you. I can handle it. If you want to reform the government, then that wish will be there quietly all the time on the opposition side, and you will try to do this job. Although I think you're still acting like a statesman and you can see that the government is doing good things. We see positive economic signs. The government is taking the right course in education policy, because we really support more teachers. We see that the government, in cooperation with the Riigikogu, naturally wishes to increase the income of people with low and medium pay by means of a tax-free minimum. I believe that if you look at all these things, you will understand that they are important to Estonia and that Estonia is currently on the right track, on the right track. I think that cooperation between the government and the EKRE is certainly conceivable and welcome. Your good ideas are always welcome. I think that as members of the Riigikogu, but also as citizens of the Estonian state, you understand how important the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is, which is now coming, and that Estonia is doing the right things here and is showing good initiative in the European Union so that we can move forward in a positive and united way. I believe that's what you really want. What do I want to say when I put it together? If you're asking if the government can handle it, if Jüri Ratas can handle it, I'll say yes, the government can handle it, and Jüri Ratas can handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U63	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U64	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! We in this Chamber only sit on patriotism out of our duty to our people and to our country, and we believe that this is what statesmanship is all about. I would leave it to the assessment of whether Jüri Ratas can handle it, however, to others, not to Jüri Ratas himself. But I'd say this ministerial exchange story still needs a little clarification. The question is first of all standard. What Repinski does in his company, for example, when he is a simple businessman, a party member or a Member of the Parliament, is one thing, but when he becomes a minister, he has a much higher ethical standard. The same applies to Tõnis. One thing is, if he's a businessman, of course we shouldn't turn a blind eye or accept that the business is being susserized, because then he's not as high on the tree as they say. If a monkey goes high up in a tree, he'll look very far away. If anyone's a minister, he'll look the same. I have a question about what this process is all about. Didn't Seeder introduce you to those names before? Didn't you have a little discussion with each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U66	Didn't they ask you for an opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U67	Thank you. This is a very correct question and it certainly requires a little more clarification. Did Helir-Valdor Seeder introduce these names to me before? I think by "before," you mean the time before the names came to the public. Yes, he did. Did I have one-on-one conversations with the ministerial candidates before? Yes, you were. And in these conversations I asked certain questions, which are important to me, I have already introduced them to the good questioner and said what I think a member of the cabinet must answer. Of course, I also presented the intentions of the government to all possible ministers in the future, such as economic policy and how to move stronger towards our growth potential. I spoke about the government's plans, and also about the responsibilities associated with the Presidency of the European Union, because it is clear that very many ministers will have to focus very strongly on the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the next six months. I also asked, of course, whether they would be prepared in the light of the plans that are currently in the government, as well as the concerns that exist in Estonian society to help Estonia and to give our people more social security to follow this path and do this work. So when you ask what preceded the appointment as minister, I say that it was preceded by serious meetings and very clear questions and, of course, very clear answers. The procedure is something like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U69	Honourable Riigikogu and Honourable Ministers! The member of the Riigikogu has one minute to ask a question and the minister has two minutes to reply. I would first like to mention the minister to whom the question is addressed. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U70	Thank you. I would like to ask the honourable Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U71	I stopped working on the last question, and then everything always gets off. Kruuse is the best of you. Learn! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U72	Reverend Speaker! Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question. Due to the very good performance of Estonian volleyball players and the effort to reach the World Championship, there was an incident in the government, about which I would like to ask you for clarification. When the honourable Chairman of the IRL, Seeder, said that it had not been discussed in the government, you argued that there was a relatively positive attitude to find a solution. The final result, however, was that Estonia had to give up the opportunity to organise this pre-MM stage in Estonia in order to provide home support for such an important competition. Can you tell me whether this decision was not made because of a time shortage that seems incredible, or whether the government was simply simply not prepared to allocate this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U73	Thank you. I certainly agree with the Chairman of the Riigikogu, who described that you were the best, and I would also say that you also had a very good response to putting your question in order. The answer to you. First of all, there has been no government meeting on this issue. There has been a hearing of ministers' opinions and there is, I would say, a very positive attitude towards getting one of the high-level international sports tournaments to Estonia. I am moving a little into my own personal history on this issue. Since I have also led a sports federation in the last four years, I know how important it is that such high-level international tournaments take place in Estonia. I also know the importance of public support for the organisation of these international tournaments, be it the central government or local authorities of the country. It is true that such tournaments can be done in very few local governments and very few local authorities have the financial capacity to support these international tournaments so much. We are actually talking about one or two municipalities, it is the central level of the state or Tallinn in terms of local governments, in theory Tartu too. The government's will was here. We also had a clear signal that the government could not decide if there had not been a government meeting, that the money was to be allocated to EUR 70000. But there was a great will. I think it went wrong that the volleyball league or the volleyball federation overreacted with their messages here and told their international partner I don't think they're looking for this tournament. It's extremely sad, and it's very sad. The government was willing to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U74	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U75	Respected Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure! We haven't talked to you about the Rohuküla railroad. So what's the railroad section of Turbani right now? Is this a pilot project, is there any way to build a new railway in the Republic of Estonia? Or is this a response to countless prayers from a partymate named Karilaiu? If this project doesn't go to Rohuküla and that's how it's gonna be, then I'm sorry! In sum, railways are discredited rather than the public transport of the future in the Republic of Estonia. Explain. If you have always said that you are one very brave government that breaks out of stagnation, why have you not made this bold decision to determine, even in the long run, when the railroad will reach Rohuva? Why have you avoided this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U76	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Government of the Republic has decided to make infrastructure investments that will take place in the first phase of the Haapsalu railway between Rice Family and Turba. Why did we divide it into two stages? Of course, no one has denied that our ultimate goal is to rebuild the railway at least to Haapsalun. The Prime Minister sitting next to me has said it must be Rohuküla. So there is a political will. Now, this decision has been a long preventive work in the previous years, because it is remembered that the railroad was sold in 1997 and that rail traffic has not taken place if I am not deceived by my old memory since 2005. During the preparatory work, an analysis has also been commissioned, which made a clear recommendation that it is worth restoring in two stages, as the Rice Family is the easiest to recover, there is a clear flow of passengers behind. This does not put Elron's need for additional trains, as existing electric trains can simply extend this line to Turbon. We are based on this analysis as the first stage to Turbon, the second stage to Haapsalun, potentially Rohuküla. I have said this everywhere that this financing decision must come from the new government in 2019, after the elections. It certainly makes it calmer or more acceptable that, by now, previous governments have already distributed infrastructure funding for this budget period, but the use of European Union funds to restore the next railroad is also very meaningful.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U77	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U78	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I would like to turn again to Jüri Ratas and come back to the subject we had before, and it concerns the new Minister of Finance. You have happily described this process to us here, that we are talking to ministers and that we are talking to the chairman of the coalition partner. How does it happen, then, that people who make a scandal in the public are getting through that sieve? Haven't you heard from Google? In this case, however, this process did not prevent a politically inappropriate person from being appointed to government. He has ethical, say, stains on his chest. You were equally passionate about defending Repinski, who eventually lost his job as well as Seedri, but he too was taken out of office. You've been protecting the sorority here today. Sorry, Sester! [[Laughter.]] Can we conclude that even though you're defending Tõniste here today, he'll be out of office in a week?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U79	Thank you for such a question here at the end of Question Time. What do I say? I'm saying I'm still completely convinced that Sven Sester did a good job in the government. He did a job that was not only important to the government, but was important to the whole of Estonia and our people. I think that's actually the most important thing. I understand that you now want to dig up some troubled place in the case of Toomas Tõnis and point out, as you say, that his shirt is stainful or spotty. He has also been my co-worker here in the Riigikogu, as far as I know, in both XI and XII. He has experience with two local government councils, in Tallinn for a long time, in Viimsi. Once again, I had a conversation with him, I'm based on it. But Estonia's political culture and practice has been that when the coalition partner, the chairman of the coalition partner, presents new candidates for government membership, they are mostly supported. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U80	Thank you. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! Today is a sad day in Estonia, a day of mourning. I propose that the victims of the June deportation and their loved ones be remembered with silence. [[The silence of grief.]] Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U82	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over two drafts: one for the appointment of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the other for the appointment of the replacements for the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U83	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U84	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The purpose of the draft law is to restore the possibility of submitting a joint income tax return for spouses in the Income Tax Act. This means that both spouses' incomes and deductions from incomes are added together. In Estonian tax law, the principle that spouses can submit a joint tax return has been in force all along the way. As I said, it basically means that all income and deductions are added in the joint tax return. The joint declaration also follows from the current family law and the logic of the common property of the spouses. Marriage usually means a contract of common property and obligations. This also means the right to a common tax return. Family policy is a value and a principle that should be important and high-ranking in politics. The Reform Party Group will re-submit a draft re-establishment of joint declarations because the Government Coalition has not fulfilled its promise and has not restored the possibility for spouses to submit a joint tax return. The coalition promised to restore it in words, but the joint declarations have not been restored in the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act, as proposed by the Government, 458 which has been discussed today. The basic principle of the Joint Declaration, by which income and income deductions are added in the joint declaration of spouses, has not been restored. Even on the contrary, the Income Tax Act does not even have the same concept as the joint income tax return of spouses. For the Reform Party Group, valuing family policy is an important principle. In any case, a family-friendly legislative amendment has been initiated and will restore joint tax returns in full. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U85	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U86	Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again submit a draft which was rejected by the Riigikogu Board with one remark. Note taken into account and corrected. This is the rehabilitation of the Estonian League of War of Independence and the persons and organisations involved. In fact, on March 12, 1934, a change of power was made in Estonia, followed by repression against both politically active individuals and their associations. They were deprived of their right to engage in political activities. They were also deprived of freedom, property, military rank and honours. The military lost their jobs, the people elected to the councils. The unlawfulness of the actions taken has also been partly recognised by their perpetrators, considering it possible to partially ameliorate persons who have been victims of repression in a few years' time. A negative image of the War of Independence was created, which was taken over and deepened by the Soviet occupation. The current historians have convincingly disproved these things. Therefore, a group of members of the Riigikogu will be presented by Henn Põlluaas, Igor Gräzin, Jaanus Karilaid, Märt Sults, Aadu Must, Madis Milling, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Sild, Mart Helme, Peeter Ernits, Martin Helme and Jaak Madison, to rehabilitate all persons and associations who have been unjustly and unduly convicted and repressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U87	This is a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu has done an effective and intense job, and pursuant to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu must at least once a year give the Riigikogu an overview of its activities. I wish to pass on the overview of the activities of the management board to the management board of the Riigikogu. A few words about what the Commission has been doing. During the reporting period, the Commission held 30 meetings, three out-of-court meetings and one extraordinary meeting. In 2016 and 2017, the Commission examined the Defence Police Office in order to identify possible violations of fundamental rights and freedoms of persons in the conduct of intelligence activities requiring judicial authorisation. The Commission heard a presentation by the Information Office and the Defence Police Department on the implementation of the 2016 budget and also discussed the compliance of the budgetary resources for 2017 with the priorities set out in the Act. The meetings were attended by the heads of agencies and ministers responsible for sectoral activities. Parliamentary hearings took place on the activities of the government as executive in supervising the activities of the security authorities, in which the responsible ministers and prime minister participated. In addition, the Commission heard from the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre, the Central Criminal Police, the Department of Prisons of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice, the Tax and Customs Board, the Security and National Defence Coordination Office of the State Chancellery, the Chancellor of Justice and the State Information System Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U89	I have adopted four drafts and one overview of the activities. We will continue to act with them in accordance with our own rules of procedure. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U90	First of all, our agenda includes the third reading of the draft law on public procurement initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Deniss Borodich Reform Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U91	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Having been very much involved in this bill, I regret, however, that a very good thing became a lost cause. This has been discussed in this Chamber, and indeed, a month ago, when the previous version of the draft law on public procurement was not supported. The Reform Party Group hoped that this would make it a good opportunity to prevent the adoption of the draft, but take your finger. There are still two fundamental aspects in the draft, which do not allow the Reform Party Group to press the green button. Firstly, when we talk about the aim of the draft being to cut red tape, it is certainly not possible to support provisions that increase it. We're talking about a buyer sub-contractor check. Let us imagine this requirement, especially in the case of large purchases, where there are hundreds of outsourcing, as well as smaller procurements, where there may be dozens of them. The rise in bureaucracy will necessarily also lead to additional costs. Is that good? I don't think so. It is not thrilled either by the contracting authorities or by a number of business organisations. The Reform Party does not support the growth of government and bureaucracy, because it is not for this purpose that this draft has been drawn up. Secondly, according to the constitution, we have a court dealing with justice. Thus, the Reform Party Group cannot agree that in civil relations, i.e. in relations with the contracting authority, the main contractor and the subcontractor, the contracting authority will have a judicial role, no matter how noble the purpose would be. Here too, a number of business organisations have made a devastating assessment. Therefore, the Reform Party Group cannot support a bill that increases bureaucracy and the costs of public procurement procedures and places the role of justice on the contracting authority instead of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U92	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U93	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! The Group of the Estonian Free Party discussed this bill at length, thoroughly and very passionately, because there were parties, there were opposers and there were also those who were unable to form a single clear position on the first, second and third occasions, until the end. Why? Because there is a need for public procurement law. This is necessary in economic activity so that our transactions are transparent, understandable, clear and logical, and that all, including small businesses, are entitled to compensation for the work done. However, these last-minute changes will seriously increase the increase in bureaucracy. I especially look at the supplier's side. I have never been a sub-contractor, and I can never appreciate it so well, but I can look at it from the point of view of the contracting authority. There are many such institutions, mostly public authorities, who do and want to do public procurement and do it properly, but for them the administrative capacity and administrative requirements are growing very strongly in this public procurement law. Sorry, we have actually set as one of the objectives of this draft law on public procurement precisely that bureaucracy should be reduced. I would argue that this bill will not diminish, but will thrive. How it's going to work for structural money, we don't know that, and there are very high risks. But it is very good that the draft law on public procurement really supports, protects, and I hope that it will really protect the small business. Their concerns and the fair reward available for their day - to - day work are important to us. It is important that the entrepreneur gets a fair reward for his honest work. That is why, after long debates and disagreements, and hoping that this bureaucratic party would actually find a sensible application through the e-procurement environment, but with very great concessions, sometimes with a long tooth, especially for small businesses, the Free Party Group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U94	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, please let us do the verification of our presence! 92 members of the Riigikogu announced their presence. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on public procurement initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs 450. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. The Public Procurement Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U95	Third reading of the draft VAT Act and the Act amending the National Defence Act (Implementing the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America) initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. It is. Hannes Hanso, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! To begin with, I recall that the Riigikogu ratified on 6 June. a The agreement on defence cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America, the development of which was due to the desire to promote defence cooperation between Estonia and the United States of America. Now, in order to implement this defence cooperation, it is necessary to make appropriate amendments to the VAT law and the National Defence Act, which we are currently dealing with in draft 431. I must say that, in international practice, countries conclude agreements on the status of armed forces between themselves, for example by sending members of their armed forces to another country for an operation or for other defence cooperation. Estonia has also concluded such agreements to ensure the highest possible legal status of its defence forces in foreign operations. For example, with Kuwait, we have made such an agreement in our time. The status agreements negotiated between NATO and the European Union have also been necessary for Estonia in several operations. In order to put this issue in an even wider context, the United States of America has entered into similar, so-called NATO SOFA-additional agreements with a number of other European countries with which the United States has close bilateral relations, such as Germany, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, Poland, Spain and, by now, Latvia and Lithuania, which ratified it in March and February respectively. Estonia has also concluded an additional agreement with Germany. I am speaking here on behalf of the Social Democratic Party and the Group. Certainly, we support the adoption of this draft. To be honest, I very sincerely hope that the coalition and the opposition will not play domestic political games on this crucial issue, but we will put our backs together and do the right thing. I do not think it is necessary to explain that the international dimension of our defence and the presence of our allies, especially, of course, the presence of the United States in our region, is crucial in the current security situation. Apart from strengthening our own defence capabilities, we have worked very hard to have our allies here. Consequently, we must obviously make their presence as smooth as possible with us, give it full legal clarity and, of course, make it as effective as possible. This bill undoubtedly supports all of this. This will increase the security of our region more widely and also narrowly our security in Estonia. So I would like to say on behalf of my group: I hope that the entire Riigikogu will support this draft. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U97	Ants Laaneots on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a brief look back on history. After the end of the Cold War in the 1990s and the break-up of the Soviet Union in December 1991, euphoria arose in both the West and Russia, that the era of great wars in Europe is now over and that all countries will live in friendship and cooperation. This was more or less the case in the last decade of the second millennium. Russia started a restructuring of society and a laborious transition from a socialist economic system to a market economy. The West tried to help him. Germany built residential homes for Russian troops returning home from the former forces beyond the borders of the Soviet Union. The Americans helped to deactivate the nuclear reactors of Soviet submarines, which have developed dozens of their resources and have been standing in the North Sea naval bases for years, and to defuse the vast supply of chemical weapons in the Soviet Union. NATO, in turn, had a serious debate in 1992 on whether not to liquidate the international defence organisation that is now becoming unnecessary. However, it was decided to leave NATO, but with rather limited tasks, which consisted mainly in the implementation of peacekeeping and peace-building tasks within the coalition forces. It no longer required large armies, and European radical disarmament began. Everything changed in 2000 with Vladimir Putin becoming President of Russia. The most important task for him is not the development of the country's economy and the improvement of the welfare of the people, but the expansion and the glory of the country. A book by the Kremlin, published in 2009, called 'New Russian Doctrine. The time to stretch out the wings' is the two strategic goals set for Russia: the closest to them, to restore control of the post-Soviet space, and the final, to become a global administrator, if necessary, by using force. The Assault on Georgia in 2008 and the annexation of Crimea and the invasion of Ukraine in 2014 confirm this. The feverish increase in the armed forces in the western Russian military community, which is adjacent to us, suggests that the order would have reached the Baltic States as well. With aggression against its neighbours, Putin has opposed himself to the whole democratic world. His actions have forced the Western countries to impose sanctions on Russia and to re-launch. This is also why the Eastern European countries of the Alliance feel threatened and have called for NATO troops to be deployed on their territory. This request was also accepted by the Alliance with its official decisions made last year in Warsaw. On the territory of Estonia are units of allies, for an indefinite period of time. They didn't come here for overeating or tour, but to ensure our security and, if necessary, to sacrifice themselves to protect our small country. Our task is to make the lives of men and women in units as comfortable as possible and to regulate their rights and obligations. These are the reasons why we passed a law last week called the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America and we are confirming today the second law on the implementation of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America. This draft amends the VAT Act and the National Defence Act. The amendments to the VAT Act supplement the list of persons benefiting from exemption for the importation of goods for personal purposes and the refund of value added tax upon receipt of goods or services in Estonia, if provided for in the international agreement. According to the amendment to the National Defence Act, a member of the contract partner's staff who provides services to foreign armed forces can be granted an entry permit in Estonia on the same basis as a person related to foreign armed forces. The draft supports defence cooperation within NATO and, within the framework of the principle of collective self-defence, promotes the arrival and long-term stay of the armed forces units of the Allied States in Estonia. The amendments are planned to take effect from 1 July inclusive. Now for an unpleasant case. During the ratification of last week's agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America on defence cooperation, several members of the Prime Minister's party did not vote in favour. In fact, Mr. Stalnukhin and some of his associates walked out of the scene. This behaviour of the government's leading party is incomprehensible. While Mrs Kersti Sarapuu, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, explained that she did not vote on her wards because she was engaged in other duties, Mikhail Stalnukhin, a member of the Centre Party, stated by the media that she could not trust the US. It is difficult to understand what is happening in this party at all, especially in the area of security. Prime Minister Ratas confirmed his support for NATO recently and also today, but at the same time the former minister and current party secretary-general Mikhail Korb expressed opposing views in the Estonian and Russian media, stating in Russian that Estonia does not need NATO membership, but in Estonian directly the opposite. The question arises as to what country these ambassadors serve and how reliable they are to our country at all. There can be no ambiguity in security matters. I hope that the chairman of the Centre Party will be able to discuss this with his partymates and perhaps to call them to order. Our international partners in NATO and good cooperation with them are an integral part of our strong Estonia's defence capabilities. The Reform Party Group supports the draft and proposes its adoption today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U99	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U100	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you all to adopt this draft, the name of which is the Act amending the VAT Act and the National Defence Act, and which is the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America on cooperation in defence. This law amends VAT. It's a technical law. It came as a great surprise to us that it would be interpreted as a giant oath of allegiance. This is not it, it is the VAT law. Ladies and gentlemen, when we vote on this, let us not forget that today we are deciding on taxes, not anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U101	No more calls, let's go to the final vote. As this bill also requires a majority of the Riigikogu membership for adoption, please let us do a check-in! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the National Defence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia (Implementing the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America) 431. Please take a stand and vote. 91 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the VAT Act and the National Defence Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U102	Draft Act amending the Act on the President of the Republic and the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic, initiated by the Constitutional Commission, 436rd reading. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. A final vote is needed on a proposal from the Commission. Honourable Riigikogu, this bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, so please let us check the presence. There are currently 90 members of the Riigikogu. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on the Parliamentary Advantage of the President of the Republic and the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic 436, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There were 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Act on the Privileges and Immunities of the President of the Republic and the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U103	And now the Government of the Republic has initiated the third reading of the Act on the Application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents and the Act on the Amendment of Other Laws 440. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. It is necessary to put the draft to a final vote on a proposal from the Commission. Honourable Riigikogu, here too, a majority of the composition is necessary. Incoming check, please! There's 87 in attendance this time. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on the application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and on the amendment of other laws 440. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 440, with one abstention, no one opposed. The law amending the law on the application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U104	Third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (strengthening the attitude towards drink driving) 328. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U105	Good Chairman! Good ambassadors! The Free Party Group does not support draft 328. It doesn't see a person inside a big system, it hits everyone with one rod, but it doesn't solve the problem. Yes, driving intoxicated is a serious problem and needs to be addressed, but with a combination of different measures. It is important to distinguish between those who are consciously traffic hooligans and those who are addicts. Addicts obviously need treatment, which is essentially not available when compared to drug treatment, for example. With this draft, the legislator clearly states that it does not trust the investigative bodies or the courts. Under the current laws, it is possible to impose more stringent penalties, but as Priit Pikamäe confirmed on Thursday in this very remote area, it has so far been politically decided that a person is expected to be good, to be able to change, and that is why the agreement procedure has such a high share in penal policy. As legislator, we are reducing the autonomy of the court by legitimising the principle of automatic imprisonment. By the way, we're triggering the possibility of violating the Constitution as well. However, the principle of the rule of law is not such that the executive powers are beginning to understand penalties at the hands of the legislator. We need to be above the political demand for power and tackle the solution to the problems in essence. Please don't go fooling around with slogans and let's not vote for this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U106	On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've dealt with this bill once before in this hall. At that time, some of the members of the government union had a sense in their minds, it was understood that the restriction of judicial power was not something that could be supported. I understand that, in the meantime, the hands of the members of the government and of the delegates have been twisted enough, they have been called to order, even the members of the committees have been replaced, so that this draft can be brought back to this Chamber. It's the kind of thing you can expect from the government, but you wouldn't want to see in this hall. The work of the Riigikogu Hall and the Riigikogu committees should not be the place where people leave the committee because they do not like the draft they are discussing, but they must support it in this Chamber. We can always take the view that, yes, we are restricting, but if we start to think a little bit about what we are deciding now, we are now deciding not even on the restriction of judicial power in terms of content, but on the functioning of the rule of law. Judicial power is independent and free in a democratic country. If we go to restrict it by telling the judge in advance what to do, we have basically taken the wrong path, the past path, the society where the sentences were ordered and announced. This is not the Estonia where we should be or live. There are several reasons why the Reform Party cannot vote in favour of this draft. One and the main thing, of course, is that the decision-making power of the judiciary cannot be restricted. And may the second of these many be mentioned. In fact, as I mentioned last time during the procedure for this draft, if the principles of penal law are changed on the one hand, by improving one tooth, it will not come to a good skin. The punishments make sense. Of course, the drinkers must be punished, there is no question of that. However, in the gradation of penalties, it is important for what kind of punishment is prescribed in the Estonian free society. Is there any other way to achieve the content of this draft? Of course it is. It's always so easy to come and say that the legislator has spoken, and now we're going to put everyone in jail. Maybe it makes sense to someone. For me, it is reasonable that the system of penalties is complete and the various penalties for the various acts must be proportionate to each other. Perhaps there are two main reasons: firstly, the penalty system cannot simply be broken by repairing one toothhole, and secondly, the restriction of judicial power in this way, simply by force, is not acceptable. For these reasons, and for some other minor reasons, the Reform Party Group cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U108	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am seriously puzzled and concerned about what our fellow Members, especially opposition parties, are saying here. I believe that they are simply speaking because they have to speak back because it is their duty to be in opposition, but in fact, in the heart they still support the fact that the punishment of such grave offenders must be in line with their actions, as is the case with heavy, or criminal, drunken, repeated driving. I listened to Küllik, the heartfelt talk of a woman, that we need to see a person here. We are seeing a human being. However, as I said in my speech here after the report by the Supreme Court of Pikamäe, it is not only the duty of the State to protect offenders, criminals and prisoners by ensuring their human rights at every step, but the duty of the State, even the duty laid down in the Constitution, to protect all the citizens of the country from the dangers that lie ahead and to guarantee them security with all possible measures. Certainly, a criminal drunken person, a drunk driver, is the greatest threat to us, our loved ones and friends, who go unsuspectingly into traffic and may be the victim of some kind of violation without causing very serious consequences. We have many examples and examples that society is not satisfied. Society is frustrated by the gentleness of the court and also of the prosecutor's office, when someone has been driving in traffic and killed people, but the penalties are almost nonexistent. They come out with parole sentences, although we know very clearly that when the defendant comes out of the courthouse after he's been suspended, he says that, uh, I did well, I didn't get punished, there was some kind of parole. Thus, parole is not a punishment perceived by society. We're not talking about those who are lost once. We are talking about tightening up the punishment for those who have been repeatedly detained in criminal drunkenness. Here, a minimum limit must be given, from which the sentence begins. It could also be a shock spell. It'll bring some people some sense. Of course, some do not come to their senses. It was about healing a tooth. But it's not really like that. There are already various prevention programmes implemented by the police, while working with the prosecutor's office to give people the opportunity to improve. But as we can see, it's not helping. That is why the legislator, Parliament itself, must take steps to assist our procedural authorities, the judiciary, so that they can dare to make fair and proper decisions and impose penalties. I do think that it is a very fair initiative to adequately respond to such serious crimes and to strengthen the attitude towards potential murderers, because they are potential murderers who do not understand their actions in any other way. This, in my opinion, is quite an appropriate and adequate opportunity to point it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U110	Thank you. I'm sure the Hatter has a desire to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U111	Thank you. Right. Since my name was named, I will make my observation. If people are automatically sent to prison, then prison is not an institution that improves people's attitudes and attitudes, but other measures are needed. One of the major problems with this bill is that we are going and we are going to impose penalties for the court itself. This isn't right. We need to look at this bill as a cluster solution. What we are doing now is not fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U112	Tarmo Kruusimäe has no right to object because no one has mentioned his name, not in any of the speeches. So, negotiations have been held and the opposition has been heard. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, this bill also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 328. Please take a stand and vote. There were 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 328, 24 against and no abstentions. The law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U113	Our next item is the draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 385. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Here, too, a majority of the membership is needed. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. I am voting on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with this draft 385. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill, no one opposed and no abstentions. The law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U114	Third reading of draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the European Investigation Order Directive) 442. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, here too, a majority of the composition is necessary. Please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu announced their presence. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 442 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 442, with no abstentions against 7. The Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U115	Third reading of Bill 407 of the Labour Dispute Resolution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U116	Honourable Riigikogu! You can see with your bare eyes that you are in the Chamber, but you must now prove that you are there because this bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Checking for presence. 85 members of the Riigikogu are present, 16 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 407 on the resolution of labour disputes initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft Labour Dispute Resolution Act has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U117	Ninth item: Third reading of the draft Act 432 amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Arto Aas Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U118	Honourable Riigikogu! I think this is one of those drafts that I am happy to vote for today. The Reform Party will certainly support the completion of the reform of rural governments. We ourselves were at the start of this reform last year. When the analysis of public tasks was completed, the topic of rural governments was in one of those chapters where it was found that it was no longer appropriate to continue in this way, in any case the organisation of work must be changed. In time, the role of rural governments has changed so much. There is certainly no reason to blame rural elders or rural government workers for this change of role. I believe that most of them have done their job with the heart, as best they can. Rather, parties who have been in the government of times must look in the mirror themselves and ask whether the decision to politicise once upon a time was the right decision for this institution or not. Rather not, and today we are seeing the happy end of this process. But I think it is even more important after today's adoption of the law to focus on how this reform will enter into force. The closure of rural governments from 1 January comes into the same period as the merger of local governments when local governments are still formed within the new borders and with the new governing bodies. There will certainly be a lot of confusion, a lot of new processes and people. The question arises as to whether they are ready to carry out new responsibilities at the time and how the public authorities are prepared to assume their responsibilities. All of this is still in preparation. So I hope that the Ministry of Finance and the other ministries responsible will make the most of themselves for the remaining six months, so that the reform can take place smoothly and these functions can indeed be fulfilled. In general, it is the right thing, at the right time or even a little bit later. And I hope that this law will be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U119	Please, Külliki Kübarsepp on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U120	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! The Free Party Group agrees that the time for rural governments is over. Indeed, the role of rural governments was drastically reduced from the moment the county elders were politicised, i.e. after the turn of the century. This is once again an example of a change in political culture towards disadvantage after Res Publica came. The Free Party, however, is critical of how things have been dealt with once again in the framework of the Bill. First of all, everything has been going too fast. The result is changes that do not have a long-term perspective. Often solutions are in the direction of stronger centralisation. The concentration of supervision in political ministries is not a wise choice and alternative solutions will have to be found in the near future. All possible actions and decisions must be left to decision-making on the ground, if possible. The topic of planning must be reviewed as a matter of urgency and moved from Tallinn to the local centres. Our criticism also applies to the introduction of the concepts of the Minister in charge of the field versus the Agency. This blinds public administration and dissipates responsibility. And it's not practically right or responsible. The consequences of the reform of the rural governments, together with the shortcomings of the administrative reform, are likely to be addressed here. I hope that this will not be done in such a hasty, superficial and substantive way and that Parliament will also be involved in the work of developing alternatives, which was not actually done this time. Despite these critical observations, the Free Party Group supports the reform of rural governments as well as the next draft agenda item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U121	Ivari Padar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, voting on this draft today is in itself the right sign. One stage in the restructuring of public power, the modernisation process is over. And the end of the next stage, I started to think, would be really if the Ministry of Justice were to complete the new Act of the Government of the Republic. My appreciation for the previous government, during which all the processes that have now come to pass, began. When it comes to the merits and concerns of this draft, there is certainly a place of concern which has been much talked about throughout the proceedings, at a pace. Nor is it quite good that the Riigikogu was put in a position where it was imposed on 1 January 2018. This could be done differently in the future when dealing with drafts. At the same time, it was very clearly found on the spot, i.e. in contact with local government associations and rural governments, that an even worse option would be to start shifting this deadline. Both municipal elections and the liquidation of rural governments are indeed very close to time. And it is clear that one intermediate level, regional level or horizontal level disappears between the state and the municipalities. Well, it's gonna need to be analyzed in the future, whether or not it can. I do not at all rule out the fact that at some point the regional level is going to come back in any way. We are also members of the Riigikogu, who have reported on this draft, that it is a question of further analysis. And for a number of things that have been discussed here from the beginning, such as the topic of county planning or supervision, we have recorded that it needs to be analysed how they will work in about two years. We in the Riigikogu must also be prepared to correct errors in one case or another. That's right. But in every way, it's a good thing we've reached this milestone by now. Good luck preparing for further restructuring of public authority!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U123	Helmut Hallemaa, Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U124	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U125	Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today is certainly an important day in terms of administrative reform and also of state reform. At the same time, two draft laws are on the table: 432 and 433 i.e. the cessation and restructuring of rural governments and the resulting amendment of the Local Government Organisation Act. I will make two speeches in one, which is also a response, a declaration of goodwill to colleagues: you will be able to speak more and also take breaks so that our expected and feared night sitting is shorter. It was an introductory digression or a digressive introduction. The Centre Party has always supported greater legal and budgetary opportunities for local authorities to operate, administrative reform that creates and ensures them, as well as meaningful, well-thought-out state reform. As the previous speakers have already said, today we are taking the first comprehensive steps in this regard. When it comes to state reform and administrative reform as a whole, the administrative-territorial reform is coming to an end with its charms and pains. We have to agree to that. In the course of the substantive administrative reform, municipalities will only receive more tasks in one place, namely the cessation of rural government activities. There will certainly be a next phase with the return of the revenue base taken away in 2009. I believe that the rural governments were, in fact, already transformed into an administrative organisation with limited rights in the past. This was in 1993 when, after a short period of self-government, they were transformed into a state organisation, a state administrative organisation at regional level. And I guess what we're doing right now is going in a logical direction. It has been said here that it is only possible to do this in two directions, to give them to municipalities, local governments or the state, as if bad. But I think that there are no supervisory functions other than those of the ministries, be it in the field of education, be it in the case of legal documents going to the Ministry of Justice. There isn't really any other place to give them. Until now, these tasks were carried out by a public authority, or county government. And in the future, the really important issue of regional culture is that the officials of these ministries, as well as the units of ministries, stay as close to the regions as possible to the municipalities. The reform of the constitutional institutions, which has not been mentioned today, is certainly ahead of us. One of the most important things referred to by Mr Ivari Padar, or, in passing, by a good colleague, is the revenue base of the municipalities, which has been unfair in terms of local governments since 2009. As far as the country is concerned, it's actually been said that the massacre has been over a long time ago. It is now possible to make up for this and to restore the local governments' income base. And despite the fact that these drafts have not yet come to this hall, the current coalition of the Centre Party and our good partners, the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and Social Democrats, on the basis of the state's budget strategy, will provide 30 million every year for the next three years, together with the Equalisation Fund. This is complemented by tools for restoring the revenue base. So next year it will be 30 million, the next 45 million and the next 55 million in 2020. This is certainly important because it allows municipalities to become more substantive and powerful and to do things that are important to people. After all, the municipality is the administrative level closest to people. This increases the overall budget of municipalities from 23 to 24% to 28 to 29%, or just 5 to 6%. So it's actually a long way to go to get close to the Nordic countries. There is one important thing in the next draft law that the Free Party has emphasised here. This is to increase the possibilities for settlement units and villages to exercise the so-called right to self-determination or to decide which administrative unit they want to belong to. In fact, the limit on the majority of councils falls from two thirds to 51%. This is a very important change because it is much easier for councils to make decisions. It is clear that municipalities, which are protected by the Constitution and the European Charter for Local Government, cannot be deprived of such an important right. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the restoration of the revenue base, which is in the government and which will certainly reach us here, means that almost 50 million, which have been taken from the municipalities every year since 2009, will now come back. So this is important. I think we're going to take the first important step today, but I'm sure we have a long way to go. So here we can deal with matters of administrative reform and state reform in several sessions. I had a plan and a task to call on everyone, on behalf of the Centre Party, to vote in favour of these two drafts. I am pleased that I can simply welcome and note that the other groups also agree. So we will probably agree to adopt these two drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U127	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 432 and we are preparing for this vote with a hall call sign. Honourable Riigikogu, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is also required for the adoption of Bill 432 as a law, please do a check-in! There are 88 delegates present. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law 432 amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 89 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U128	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Metsoja, IRL faction. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U129	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, With these two drafts, we are, in fact, silently opening the door to the reform of the state and trying to allow room for fresh air, on which we have been fickle and distrustful for a long time in cooperation with the various political forces. There is now a breakthrough in this sense, and I hope that we will all have the strength and the strength to deal seriously with this issue together, so that it does not remain one effort and a half opening. Indeed, the times of rural governments have changed for many reasons. It is precisely because we have created a situation on the political continent where we have been trying to lose one institution for almost ten years and, in fact, to underestimate a little, despite the fact that very many rural governments have done very good and effective work at county level in the context of Estonia's balancing. This, in turn, has given more strength to the local government associations, which have tried to fill this gap and to cooperate better by taking over the tasks of rural governments, whether it is the organisation of public transport. Efforts are now being made to set up development agencies in counties. The Coalition has also provided additional opportunities to develop a local business environment and a living environment, for example through the development of a basic broadband network, or access network. In fact, there are activities to be faced with in such a rather confusing time for local authorities, yes and yes. The administrative reform will undoubtedly continue to shape life in Estonia in the next few decades, affecting adults, children, municipalities themselves and the institutions associated with them. And in order for cities and municipalities to live well and for residents to have a job there, the municipality must be strong and undoubtedly ambitious. It provides better services, more professional authorities and more money for investments. Of course, we cannot fail to mention that a professional attitude also creates a more favourable business environment. On the one hand, the administrative reform is indeed coming to an end. We will be done with mergers and mergers in the autumn, together with the local elections. Today, we are adopting laws in this hall that are losing county governments, and we are sharing responsibilities with local governments. We regulate the way public transport is organised in the future and we do much more. On the other hand, this is only the beginning of reaching large and strong municipalities. Personally, I very clearly support the formation of county-sized municipalities. Although only two of them will occur by this autumn, the Riigikogu should not stop. And in order to support ambition, local governments must also continue to be financially motivated when they join. There's a lot of talk about funding, or cashiers, that's ringing. So far, we do not have a financing model. We have proposed to change the current model, perhaps even slightly, of the Socialist Equalisation Fund. It does not motivate municipalities to improve their management or increase the income of residents, but rather demotivates those who are successful. But let's come to this bill. It transfers the current responsibilities of rural governments in organising public transport to the Road Administration with the possibility of transferring them to public transport centres. Public transport must be organised with the aim of a tighter timetable and a wider network of routes, rather than over-the-counter public transport. The Minister of Economic Affairs calls it free public transport, but free things don't really exist in life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U130	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U131	Yeah, last sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U132	Oh, there's plenty of time for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U133	It's all coming at the expense of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U134	The chair thought that some sentences were still coming up. All right! I will close the negotiations because there are no more calls. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 433, which means preparing for it. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform 433. Please take a stand and vote. 77 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 433 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U135	11th item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for the political groups. Artur Talvik of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U136	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I've had to go to this remote area several times, but since repetition is the mother of wisdom, I want to go over some important things again. First of all, the Free Party does not fully understand why this law was opened at all, why it is necessary to push through this legislative amendment so quickly and so forcefully, and why all this will be done now, when the forestry development plan for 2030 will soon be discussed. Maybe this is where the basic principles should be established. Secondly, the Free Party is positively tuned to the fact that several of our important proposals went through. Among other things, it worked out that because of our proposal, there are no insane areas of clear cutting. They cannot be done, i.e. in the case of clear cutting, the limit of seven hectares remains. We believe that this is a great victory, and we also thank the Members of the Commission, of course, that they understood it and voted in favour of our proposal. But maybe the most important thing is to lower the tree age that has entered the bill. Any demagogic argument as to why this is necessary is not competent. Our position is that it should not be changed; it should remain the same. And we stress once again that we believe that this move is made primarily to gain greater profits from RMK, on the other hand because of pressure from industry, because it is the most high-quality timber that grows massively in the Estonian forest. The course of the procedure of this law and all the debates that have taken place in this connection have led to our idea so far that there is not really a social or, let's say, a national agreement in Estonia on the balance of forests: for example, how much tourism companies benefit, how much social benefits, how much cultural benefits etc. Also in economic terms, of all the debates that have followed this legislative amendment, it has become clear that there are very different views on forest growth and felling volumes. This means that we do not have a national agreement that you can see, if we cut more and younger than this, our forest will not recover. This is not the case, and we continue to call for scientists from the Estonian public and also from different perspectives to find this focus so that balance is maintained. I must certainly conclude by saying that the Free Party is not a total opponent of deforestation. I even live in a log house, and I don't know what wonderful things are made of wood. We understand very well that the timber industry is an important industry for Estonia. But on the other hand, we also realize that if we break this balance, we lose one of the highest values of the forest. Thus, as a forceful humiliation of the tree age has been introduced, the Free Party will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U137	On behalf of the Group of the Eerik-Niles Kross Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U138	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that we have chosen a very unsuccessful date for the third reading of this law. There have already been enough sad events in Estonian history on that day. The discussions around this forest law have been very emotional in this Chamber, but unfortunately, at least I think it is absolutely inadequate. Neither I nor very many of my colleagues have received an answer to the most basic question about this package of amendments. And that's why it's necessary to lower the allowed felling age of the spruce to 60 years. There are different answers, different arguments against it, but there is no convincing explanation. For example, it has been said that as the climate warms, the spruce grows faster and is already ripe at an earlier age. However, it has been said that only 2% of spruce is affected. And more or less the same report says it concerns 75% of the spruce. It has been argued that this is a matter of submission to pressure from the forest industry. And it has also been said that everything has been discussed with the best forest scientists, and that this change actually protects nature. It has been argued that if we don't lower our felling age, we can't cut the forest with the risk of damage to the root cannon. At the same time, it is known that it can actually be cut according to the current law by taking evidence from a pathologist. The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber, has been opposed to cutting the age of felling in the Committee. At the same time, he has called on all of us from this remote control to support this law. It has been said that the most important thing is to cut down the forest less than there is an increase, and it has been argued that reducing felling age, or allowing more cutting, somehow supports this principle. By the way, in the meantime, a new Minister for the Environment has also taken office who has hardly had time to examine this law in detail. So once again there is a situation where one law with measurable effects over the decades is adopted in such a way that neither the old minister nor the new minister is responsible: one can say that the old did, and the other can say that he was no longer in office when the law was passed. In fact, of course, the responsibility for this law can still be defined personally, this responsibility rests with each and every one of us who is voting here today. Today, it is not about what RMK or the government or the forest industry or even the foresters think, because they all have opposing interests. However, I will make a final attempt and ask you to think seriously whether it is more important for this vote than for what is currently being written down by the political tactics acting as a one-day butterfly, or whether it is still more important what your conscience tells you. Are you personally convinced that this decision is the right one? What about keeping national assets and looking after our future guarantee has something to do with this change or not? Only one argument should be relevant to this vote: are you personally convinced that this decision is the right one? Are you sure this is good for the future of the Estonian forest? I'm not. But if you are, are you able to explain to your children why you voted like you do today? So regardless of political affiliation or belonging to the opposition or coalition, I really ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U139	Peeter Ernits, Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U140	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, They say a drop of tar can ruin all the food. There are a lot of good things in this amendment to the Forest Act. Yes, indeed, 27000 hectares of valuable forests, forests and wish forests, etc., could have been protected long ago. In the case of these unfortunate bonite class Ia and I spruce, the sausage is so-called sausage. Basically, the forest workers want to go after the young trees. The current maturity diameter is 26 centimeters in such forests. If the tree is 26 centimeters thick, you can take it down. And now the game is four centimeters across the diameter, they want to move to 22 centimeters in these growth areas. So we're talking about four centimeters and then chopping up some 60-year-old or 70-year-old trees. I don't think that's wise. There are experts and people everywhere you trust. I trust Toomas Frey, a professor who's spent his whole life studying a tree at Voore Station. He is probably one of the best people who know Christmas trees at all and not just in Estonia. He has made it very clear that this amount of felling forest no longer exists; it has already been cut down. Therefore, our felling in spruce should be stopped, which would mean declaring the Forest Act null and void. And what can I say about that? Are you saying I'm smarter than Professor Frey or those who know the forest? There are always those who say it's really a mess or that it's actually the right thing to do. I don't think so and chop or chop it up, I don't agree with that. This is exactly the amount we are talking about. Indeed, Estonia has 192000 hectares of spruces and is currently allowed to chop 1900. But now they want to chop 4200 hectares, most of them, 3,000 hectares in the state forest. What's the conclusion? The funniest thing is the situation we have here in the Riigikogu Hall. We're free to make our decisions. When I look at the vote of Rainer Vakra, our esteemed Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, a good coalition partner, he agrees with me not to go after young spruce. My second good colleague, Mr Kalle Palling, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, also agrees. But strangely enough, the Committee on the Environment decided that it was actually worth cutting them off. I'll ask who's ears are in here. Who's gonna tell us what we're doing here? Who will tell the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment? The political spectrum is completely different. They're against it, but in the big hall, we should be in favor. Is it RMK's boss or someone else? Or a woodworker with a name and a face? In short, the Central Party Group will vote in favour of this Forest Act, but it is very difficult for me to be in favour of it precisely because of this tar drop. And I agree here with my good colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Rainer Vakra, and his colleague, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Kalle Palling. You don't have to go after the young spruce, you're already out of your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U141	Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll start with the speed of the bill. Mr Vakra's calm pace of procedure has led to the fact that I have managed to present this draft to you on behalf of the Government at first reading and now at third reading, in the final vote, we can also adopt it. So much for speed, there's been a time for discussion. Now, if we go over this bill in substance, I dare divide these amendments into three parts. I won't touch them all during this time. But there is an important change in the substance of this draft, and none of you will guess what point it is under. Maybe some people do. This is in point 5, with which the state will establish a forest register. The new forest register is ready, but a basic act is needed to create it. There are also substantive changes to this draft concerning forest management. Point 23, which has already been mentioned, could serve as an example of style, which is a proposal for scientists. There are also statements of political will, but they do not apply to the tree's felling age. For example, point 3 supports our coalition agreement, according to which balance must be ensured in such a way that no more is cut than the increase in forests. And there are restrictions here. Points 40 and 42 concern negotiations with the local community or with the municipality before felling begins. What has impressed me by reading the verbatim reports of your discussions is that you have not paid much attention to the nature conservation aspects, except for 27000 hectares of lore and salumes that will be protected. But you see, even the VEP area limit disappears, and VEP doesn't mean VEB Foundation, it means a valuable habitat. If so far there was a limit of seven hectares and no larger areas could be made, then now this area limit has been abolished. The management of the forest and its enmity. According to the Forest Act, forest management means both protection and really management in a narrower sense we understand. There is a small installation in the lobby on the third floor and a note on the wall that forest management gives bread to 149000 people. Who are these people? Forwarder operators, harvester operators, truckers, saw-frame drivers, plant farmers, taxiers, fathers, brothers, sisters or mothers left behind, who make their daily bread with it. And when there is a debate on the state budget in the autumn and amendments are being made, I hope that you will think about this money from the proceeds of forestry. I suggest we go into the woods. This is a very beautiful time for clear cutting poles or renewal cutting poles, which is a more accurate concept. By the way, the wild harakush blossoms, the wild strawberries bloom and the freshly soiled tree plants root. This year, with the help of people, about 30 million trees were planted in Estonia's forests. I hope there's someone else in the speakers' room who's been making a real contribution to it this year, besides me. I hope that when you get out of the forest, you will also see other Estonian trees: common pine, common oak, intelligent, swampy, gray alpine, sangleppa, halapaju. Indeed, the forestry development plan will soon be completed. I know that discussions will continue, there are also supposedly competent debateers. For my part, I would like to thank the private forest federation, which yesterday expressed its support for my activities. I call on you to support this draft Forest Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U143	Mr Rainer Vakra on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Marko Pomerants concluded this year with statistics that 30 million trees have actually been planted. I hope that many in this Chamber who have made very big words have actually reached the forest with Marko and me and planted these trees. Well, it's easy to talk about the remote in this hall, but it's hard to do in real life. But the current government has agreed on things that have been spoken about for a very long time and that have not actually been enshrined in law. I remain convinced that Estonian forestry policy must not only be based on economic objectives, but also on ecological and social values. That is why the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu has added, I repeat, that we had several hours of discussion on the draft law in principle. In my opinion, the most important of these is the government's right to stop the cutting of innovation (which has been asked what it means to cut innovation is also clear cutting), if there is reason to assume that the volume of felling may exceed the growth of the economic forest. Let me remind you that the current government is the first in whose coalition agreement clearly and unambiguously states that we will not cut more forest than we will grow. In addition, it cannot be overlooked that the green area of the city cannot be cut down in the future without the consent of the local authority and the felling is coordinated with the municipality before the notification of the forest. This, too, is a point that has actually been spoken about by municipalities for years, and I am pleased that it has reached this forest law. This is a change that will help preserve the valuable high-greening in the green areas of cities. Municipalities will finally have the opportunity to, in fact, say that even the obligation to influence felling work in the green areas defined by the city's general plan. Thirdly, I must acknowledge and congratulate all the members of the Committee on the Environment that we have retained the inventory of land-based forests and have supplemented the law with the provision that in future, a private forest owner with smaller forest ownership will be preferred as a recipient of public forest support. This, too, was a point that was repeatedly mentioned in the Committee on the Environment, and I am pleased that it has become a point in the law, in addition to what has been said. The Committee on the Environment also supported the ban on increasing the area of clear cutting, which, according to the law currently in force, must not exceed seven hectares. Perhaps the area of clear cutting may not be more than seven hectares in the future. And one small but I believe that due to a fundamental change, this law requires that harvesters' leaders be sent to school in principle in order to ensure better quality of forest works. Why are we doing this? It is the harvester operators who make decisions during the work that determine the result that lies behind the clearing. In order to ensure their high level, we will introduce a requirement that only workers with professional qualifications in the harvester operator should perform forestry work. In summary, I can say with complete certainty and joy that we have included in this law points that clearly reduce the pressure to cut down the forest and contribute to its prudent and sustainable management. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on the Environment, the Government Union and the opposition who have considered these changes necessary, also supported them and voted in favour of them. We involved a large number of experts, forest owners, conservationists and officials from different agencies in the process of this draft. So there can certainly not be any hurricane or rape in this case. I think you might even say it's a long-made beauty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U145	The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 396. Preparatory call sign, please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 396. Please take a stand and vote. 52 votes in favour and 24 against. Bill 396 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U146	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. If I wish, I will open negotiations for the political groups. There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 423. Let's vote after the hall call. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 423. Please take a stand and vote. Eighty-four delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 423 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U147	13th agenda item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Educational Grants and Student Loan and Labour Capacity Allowance initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups now have the opportunity to negotiate. There's no call. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 417. Let's vote after the call. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on Employment Capacity Support 417. Please take a stand and vote. Eighty members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 417 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U148	14th agenda item: Third reading of the Social Committee's draft law on the amendment of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and other laws 468. Do the political groups want to participate in the negotiations? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 468. First the sergeant and then the vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Labour Capacity Allowance Act and other laws initiated by the Social Affairs Committee 468. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 468 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U149	15th agenda item: Third reading of the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The political groups have the opportunity to start negotiations. That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 434. First the call sign and then we vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, 434. Please take a stand and vote. 76 votes in favour and 4 against. Bill 434 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U150	Third reading of draft law 419 on the amendment of traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U151	Good vice chairman! Good Riigikogu! The faction of the Free Party does not support the introduction of huge new taxes, the major aim of which is simply to patch up budget holes. Road user charges serve this objective to be budgeted in a situation where we do not have a direct economic crisis. It is true that road user charges apply in many countries, but there are many exceptions that somehow our authorities and politicians do not want to ask the European Commission. We don't think that's fair. This is how we come to the same criticism of the European Union that we want to be Pope's pope in the European Union, leaving our own people behind, we must not allow this to happen. What else is against you? I'm sorry, but this bill or this kind of road user fee solution only serves the interests of one sub-union. The other sites are essentially not involved and, as a result, small businesses are once again suffering. As a group of the Free Party, we will continue to stand up for small business, especially rural entrepreneurship. In the case of this draft, more must be paid for living in the country, which is already more expensive than being delivered in Tallinn. Our proposal coincides with the original proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs to introduce a tax from 12 tonnes of trucks. And if we don't come along with it, then we're not going along with the current solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U152	On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U153	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group also does not support this draft, for the following reasons. First of all, this bill is presented, among other things, as taxation of transits through Estonia, i.e. vehicles registered abroad, but it is only a small part of the tax burden that actually happens to Estonian entrepreneurs. 20% is estimated to be the proportion that owners of vehicles registered abroad have to pay when driving on Estonian roads, and this is in the order of 3.4 million euros. But Estonian taxpayers, Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian transport companies will have a total of 13.6 million. Perhaps 80% of the total additional income planned by this bill will actually be borne by Estonian entrepreneurs. Secondly, the Reform Party Group, first and foremost, does not consider it right, as the Free Party Group expressed here, to apply road user charges to trucks with a maximum mass exceeding 3.5 tonnes up to and including 12 tonnes. And once again, the reason is that this will certainly lead to an increase in prices for end-users, because the cars that carry food, construction materials and other essential goods that all of us, Estonians, need, also fit into this range. Of course, this cost will not be borne by transport companies, but will eventually be borne by taxpayers. They have to pay the cost when they go to the store to buy bread, milk, or building materials. However, we do in itself support the introduction of road user charges for trucks with a maximum weight of over 12 tonnes, which is also part of this draft. During the second reading, we proposed that this rate be somewhat lower than the one in the current draft, which is 16% lower in size. This proposal was primarily due to the fact that we would have similar conditions to neighbouring countries. And this fee for road use for trucks with a maximum weight of more than 12 tonnes was primarily based on the Latvian level. The second reason why we actually support the taxation of trucks with a maximum weight of over 12 tonnes is because of where I started. If the bill is adopted in the form that the coalition has put it on our table today, the owners of vehicles registered abroad will indeed only pay 20% of the total fee for road use and Estonia will bear 80%. But if we only took trucks with a maximum weight exceeding 12 tonnes, the proportion of vehicles registered abroad would undoubtedly be significantly higher than the proportion of vehicles registered in Estonia. I can give you an example that does not claim absolute truth. I drive at least twice a week between Tallinn and Pärnu. For one Estonian truck with a maximum weight of over 12 tonnes, I will meet six or seven trucks registered abroad on the road with a maximum weight of over 12 tonnes. Perhaps I would argue that if we tax only cars with a maximum weight of more than 12 tonnes, the proportion of vehicles registered abroad is actually higher than the draft currently proposes. One interesting nuance that has been repeatedly referred to is that the draft has been prepared in haste. It is also a sign of what the previous rapporteur said that one argument has been made that EU directives do not only allow trucks with a maximum mass of more than 12 tonnes to be taxed. This argument is not correct, as Denmark and Sweden have already received such an exception, which tax only trucks with a maximum weight of more than 12 tonnes with a road user charge. In fact, the Minister had the same desire, which he told us at first reading from this panel. But it really seems to me that since these revenues have already been taken into account in the next budget... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U154	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U155	... these revenues have already been taken into account as of 1 January 2018, then, of course, not all the procedures that should be followed when submitting a formal application to the European Union in order to benefit from this derogation. In that case, this fee could not be applied from 1 January 2018. Yes, it is true that the opinion of the Transport Commissioner has been asked about this exception. But the opinion is one thing, the official application is quite another. There is another interesting nuance about this draft. In the company of the IRL there was a man of knowledge, Mr Vallbaum, who unfortunately has now left the Riigikogu. I quote his speech at first reading: 'You say that heavy goods vehicles are ruining you. In fact, you're most damaged by those little vans that use nails like us. [----] What kind of scraps are on the roads created by small cars with their nail tires! That's our worst problem, not our big cars. " Now I want to ask whether the lost government coalition or the lost knowledge man, Mr. Vallbaum, is also the object of this law. He claims that big cars are much less concerned than small vans. So it's your homework to solve this issue. And the final argument, which once again shows signs of haste, is how archaic this supervision is to be prepared. This supervision will essentially be carried out by a single police car, which in fact means an additional burden on the police. This means that he will have less time to do his main job, to ensure safety in traffic. In the 21st century, this supervision could be carried out through automated checks, as is measured by speed, without the policeman necessarily having to stand on the side of the road with a ticket message coming home and paying the fine without arguing. In the 21st century, it would be very logical for electronic cameras to monitor the payment of the road user fee. This is actually the plan, but it is not possible to implement it so quickly because of haste. It takes two or three years and only then can it be done. Once again, we are putting the police on a completely pointless additional task, which leaves him less time to do the basic work. And as has been said, no additional resources or money will be given to the police for it. So, as a result of all this, the Reform Party Group will not support the road user fee in the way it is proposed, and we will vote against this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U156	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U157	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Conservative People's Party does not support this bill either. These are the reasons that have been mentioned repeatedly in this remote control, both during the nights of the first reading and during the second reading. But let's go over a few simple things again. This is the economic and tax policy of the left-wing government, which is painfully hitting the pocket of an Estonian person, even if we are being tried to sell it here with rhetoric that we are taxing companies. We all know, as the previous speakers said, that neither company money comes from anywhere but consumers' pockets. This tax hits an Estonian man's pocket. Secondly, in principle, we do not support road user charges in this way, regardless of whether these cars are in one weight or another. Thirdly, we do not support the granting of extra money to a government that does not know how to handle money. And the current government doesn't know how to handle money. We will hear absurd ideas to drown 120 million in the city hall, and we will hear other flying ideas. I'll make a simple comparison. Each tonne of oil shale that is extracted will give the Estonian state a tax revenue of 18 to 20 million euros. Every ton! We do not have six or seven tonnes of the fixed ceiling each year, or EUR 100 million will be lost in the state budget. With the same road user charge, the same amount of money is scraped together as you could get from an additional tonne of oil shale mining. It is not really being dealt with to promote our economy. Or let us give another example. It is said that we have received EUR 100 million due to the evasion of labour taxes. Instead of making more efforts to improve our tax treatment, we are dealing with the creation of new taxes. And, of course, there's all the thinking that our current government has, that there is some mysterious money tree somewhere, and it's the government's and the state's business to spend it, and it's always missing. This thinking is simply disastrous. So we cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U158	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 419. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 419. Please take a stand and vote. 52 votes in favour and 34 against. Bill 419 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U159	The third reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act, the Motor Insurance Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Are the groups interested in opening negotiations? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 406 and we are preparing for it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending traffic law, motor insurance law and state fees law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 406. Please take a stand and vote. 83 delegates voted in favour of the draft. Bill 406 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U160	Also on the next item, we will continue the subject of traffic: Erki Savisaare, Viktor Vassilyev, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Jaanus Marrandi, Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaumi, Kalle Pallingu, Kristen Michali, Artur Talvik, Kalvi Kõld, Krista Aru, Liisa Oviir and March Sults, the third reading of the draft law amending the traffic law. Are the representatives of the political groups ready to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 399. I vote on the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu Erki Savisaare, Viktor Vassilyev, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla, Jaanus Marrandi, Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaumi, Kalle Palling, Kristen Michali, Artur Talvik, Kalvi Tõvi, Krista Aru, Liisa Oviir and Märt Sults. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 399 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U161	19th item: The third reading of the draft law amending the Law on public transport, traffic law and state fees initiated by Einar Vallbaum, Ivari Padar, Vilja Toomas, Andre Sepa, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Remo Holsmeri, Jüri Jaanson, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Meelis Mälberg, Laine Randjärve, Anne Sulling, Marko Mihkelson, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Kivimägi, Jaanus Marrandi, Deniss Borodichi, Heidy Purga, Keit Pentus-Rosimatus, Tanel Winter, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Kalle Laaneti, Igor Gräzini, Juhan Partsi, Kristjan Kõljala and Martin Kuke. I will open negotiations for the political groups. On behalf of the Kalle Palling Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 February last year, 26 members of the Riigikogu handed over one historic bill. On 19 April last year the first reading of this draft took place in this Chamber and, somewhat symbolically, this important draft stands on the 19th order on the agenda today. Very much has been said, both in the media and in this Chamber, about how important it is that we have decided in one sector to look to the future, not the past. I think that this draft, which makes the use of cars more efficient in the transport sector, is particularly important from the point of view of environmental policy. This draft, which allows additional services for people, is important for all those involved in the collaborative economy. Only recently, the Tax and Customs Board published that the number of managers who voluntarily declared their tax revenue, their income in the Tax and Customs Board, increased six times. These are just a few reasons why I am very grateful to all the initiators, to all those people who have contributed to this bill becoming a law. And I think it is also appropriate here to thank Ken-Mart Vaher and Jaanus Marrand, who were the ladies and gentlemen who took on the greatest weight as initiators at the moment we launched this bill on 25 February last year. I am sure to thank Erki Savisaar and Aivar Kokka, who, as a member of the Economic Commission and Chair of the Economic Commission respectively, consistently carried this draft, even when the government coalition changed, and did not decide to reverse it in any way. Special thanks to Einar Vallbaum, Vilja Toomast, Andre Sepa, once again Ken-Marti Vaher, Juhan Parts, Kristjan Kõljala and Martin Kuke, who are among the initiators of the bill, but no longer does the work of a member of the Riigikogu. And most of the thanks go to Toomas Kivimägi, members of the Riigikogu, who consistently carried out the procedure of the draft law as the leading manager and previously as the chairman of the Economic Commission, met all the parties, organised hearings, etc., etc. Of course, I cannot fail to thank the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, former Minister Kristen Michal and current Minister Kadri Simson, who, in cooperation with his house, has contributed to this bill reaching the second and third readings and being passed as a law today. So once again, on behalf of the initiators, I would like to thank my fellow Members: all those I have counted, and also those I did not have time to count, because there is just a short period of time. On behalf of the Reform Party, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to press the green button and support it in becoming a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U163	Jaanus Marrand on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U164	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's final vote on the draft law amending the Public Transport Act, or the Uber Act, has been processed and baked for over a year. The draft has been raised not only by us here in Estonia, but by not exaggerating the whole world. This is a case of the complex problem of the collaborative economy, or the development of a new economy, which has been the subject of attention, let us remember, then, in Paris, New York, Berlin. On the one hand, such a great deal of attention highlights a certain vanity, the desire to be one of the first to be able to resolve all parties to the so-called Uber issue satisfactorily. The question is how to put one flagship of the old service economy, a taxi service together with a much different and more flexible sharing economy with a new approach to labour and working time. This vanity also meant that the initiators, or a group of members of the Riigikogu, initially tried to find very simple solutions. This situation is best described in the first version of the draft, which amended the Public Transport Act by adding a deal to it, and it was scrupulously argued that it was not public transport. We tried, figuratively speaking, to make it clear that he who jumps around in the garden with long ears and pussy tails and eats carrots is not a rabbit, even though he looks like this. As a natural reaction, it was followed by quite important petitions from the actual taxi service providers and let us admit that taximen were right. In the second stage, we arrived at a place where we dealt with it in a way that okay, let's put it aside, but the problem is that let's not talk about having the same kind of insurance as taxis or other cars. This, too, was a slightly simplified voluntaristic approach, but in the end we came to an agreement on this, too. On the final option, which is here before you, I say with full conviction that it is one of the better discussed drafts, where compromises have also been found across the Chamber of Riigikogu and also with all taxi service providers. The solution is pretty elegant. On the one hand, it liberalises the entire taxi market, on the other hand it introduces innovative elements, organises the taxi market. And the final result of the disputes was that we have room for electronic platforms, time providers using distance measurement, as well as traditional taxis with plafone and taxi meters. The new one can coexist with the old and traditional ones, which is actually the main key to this draft solution, which could serve as an example for other areas. Let us be honest, all of this is inevitably ahead of us in almost every area, because the world is changing faster than we can predict. Three days ago, I bet an innovation trust with a man who claimed that what you and Uber are messing with in seven years' time at the latest is 30% of the Estonian taxi market in self-driving cars and no drivers are needed at all. True, I was more skeptical. But to be honest, I wouldn't mind losing that bet, because progress is faster than we can foresee. In short, the changes are coming to. it's clear. A societal challenge is the increasing speed of change, which is becoming increasingly difficult to cope with. It's a little bit of a pass. We recall that by 1900, human knowledge doubled in about a century, but by the middle of the 20th century, it was every 25 years. The amount of information now doubles once a year, and the Internet of Things will lead to a doubling of global information every 12 hours in the coming years. There has never been such a thing in human history, and the world cannot handle it. Ten years ago, we listened to the radio in the car to find out about the jams ahead. We are now using an app that brings to us in real time the speed of mobile phones of other road users on every section of the road. In addition to everyday life, technological development and globalisation also affect the economy. The economy, in turn, affects people's work. The development of the digital economy loses millions of jobs in the world every year. In the near future, self-driving trucks will free nearly five million drivers in Europe, and this is a matter for the next decades, not for the century. Someone will be unemployed for technological reasons, but new jobs will be added to other areas. It is with these difficult challenges that the draft law on the amendment of public transport, on which we are voting today, is going to be put to the chest, in a rather primitive form at first. It is one of the first swallows to try to put together an old and new economy and can do it in a better way than it has done elsewhere in Europe. In short...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U165	Dear waitress, if you have more than one sentence, I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U166	... we are obviously better at dealing with this than has been done elsewhere in the old Europe. With regard to this bill, the Riigikogu can be proud of itself. Of course, the Social Democrats also recommend voting in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U167	On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U168	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by thanking all those who have ever initiated this draft. I also have to say that this draft, which we are adopting now, is different from the original draft as from the day of the night, and I do not know whether or not there are any lines left of it. But in front of the fact that this bill came to the first reading of the hall, hat off! In fact, it created a situation where people in this hall, both here and outside the Riigikogu, began to wonder if there was any other way to provide taxi services. And there was a question of whether service providers should have the same obligations and rights when they offer any service in one area. In the original draft, however, the taxicab service had a wide range of obligations and a wide range of rights for the platform service. I want to thank all those who contributed very strongly to this bill over the last three months. This bill is one good example of how it is possible for the Riigikogu, where at some point there is one company with its vision, an understanding of taxi services in one corner and another company in the other corner, one day in the middle of the floor to come together, shake hands and say yes, we need a solution. And I believe that this solution is a good one. Thomas and I both are a little sad because we both saw that this bill could be implemented from the moment the President declared the law. But we also want those who offer this service and start applying for permits not to have 30 days to apply for permits, but seven days. We also want all of this to be possible through information systems, so that we no longer need to print out which papers, but also to show everything from our app, computer and phone. I believe that the taxi companies are a little sad that this law will not apply so quickly that it will apply on 1 November. But I think I can say on behalf of all the Members of the Commission that we will see that on 1 November this law applies to everyone, be it current taxi providers or to those who are going to provide platform services. If so far the platform service was not legalised, then on 1 November no one will have the excuse that I have not been able to apply for or make a permit. The transition period is sufficient. I would like to thank once again all the Members of the Commission and those who were on the initiative of the initiators during the spring debates. The fact that we were able to solve one important issue and make a decision did not happen because of the opposition or the coalition. We had a common understanding that entrepreneurship must be supported in Estonia. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U169	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is a final vote of 188 on the draft, which has received many positive comments. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law 188 on the amendment of the Public Transport Act, Traffic Act and State Duty Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Einar Vallbaum, Ivari Padari, Vilja Toomasti, Andre Sepa, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Remo Holsmer, Jüri Jaanson, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Meelis Mälberg, Laine Randjärve, Anne Sulling, Marko Mihkelson, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Kivimägi, Jaanus Marrandi, Deniss Borodichi, Heidy Purga, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Tanel Talve, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Kalle Laaneti, Igor Gräzini, Juhan Partsi, Kristjan Kõlljala and Martin Kuke. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the population voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 188 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U170	20th item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 350 on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Natural Gas Act and the Electricity Market Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 350. Please take a stand and vote. 83 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 350 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U171	21st item: Third reading of draft law 409 on amendments to the law on audit activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Would you like to start negotiations? On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U172	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you all. There is still no vote on this draft, which we are about to talk about, but today the Committee on Economic Affairs has brought you a whole batch of third readings. And I'm quoting a little bit the other way around when some time ago Postimees quoted it's a sunny afternoon for small entrepreneurs today, because we've made very important decisions for them. First of all, we voted in favour of the fact that subcontractors, builders and all the others involved in subcontracting are people. We give them a chance to defend themselves. At the same time, we also give the contracting authority the opportunity to eliminate those operators who are trying to do something about it, offering a low price in order simply not to pay taxes at one point. A moment ago, we voted on the gas bill. Believe me, when this bill came to this hall for the first reading, there was a point that would have raised the gas price for all gas users by 7 to 9% and, worst of all, depending on where their gas meter is at 30%. When it was originally claimed that all meters cost EUR 2 000 and more, we now know that they cost EUR 100 and installation is EUR 40. This means that all landlords who consume gas will have meters in the next two years, which are smart for connecting the house, or remotely, so that we know what the cost is and how to save at the moment. And right now we have the law of audit. We know that during the restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia, all of us, who were entrepreneurs, wanted to make a public limited company because it seemed prestigious. Today, there are just over 1 500 public limited companies in Estonia, which have one or two shareholders, or in most cases are family companies. Many of them are companies that are made to feed the family. At the same time, alongside them are private limited companies, whose turnover and the number of owners are quite different, but who do not have an audit obligation. When we adopt this law, we will equate the conditions for auditing companies and private limited companies with small shareholders, i.e. companies with up to two shareholders. Once again, I thank you all and wish all entrepreneurs a day of sunshine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U173	Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question, or do you want to thank me? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U174	I want to thank you for giving me the floor. But the procedural question is, can we use the cluster to say thank you once and not come here every time to say the same thing? We have a long night ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U175	It is always worth thanking good people even when they have been thanked a lot before. Honourable Riigikogu! The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 409. First the call sign and then we vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 409. Please take a stand and vote. 74 delegates voted in favour of the draft and 6 against. Bill 409 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U176	22nd item: Draft 451 second reading of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme to support the reconstruction of the defence capabilities of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. I would like to ask Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, as a reminder that the draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic, including on 4 May, the first reading was completed on 17 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May. No amendments have been tabled to the draft, but some linguistic corrections have been made. The National Defence Committee agreed with the recommendations made by the language editor and five linguistic clarifications of the draft text, which are also underlined in the revised text. The author also supported linguistic clarifications. What do they consist of? In the title and text of the proposed draft, the word 'upbuilding' was originally used, meaning internal order, composition and the result of the reconstruction. But the draft actually means action, not result, which is why the corresponding linguistic clarification has been made: the title and text have been inserted into the word 'building up'. It is also correct to write numbers up to 10 words in the text according to the Estonian written language norms, and this is guided by the legislation of the Riigikogu. Perhaps the bill originally had the number 10, which is now replaced by the word 'ten'. As I explained at first reading, the important objective of this foreign mission is to train the Iraqi security forces, which I hope will be given a mandate for up to five active troops. However, during the rotation period, this number may be increased to 10 members of the Defence Forces within 30 days of the arrival of the active troops participating in the rotation in Iraq. The Defence Forces will first contribute to one explosives expert, with which, one can say, Estonia will fulfil its allied obligations arising from NATO membership. A full-scale mission will probably begin in September. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading, including at its meeting on 5 June, approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum together with the minor improvements I spoke about. At its meeting on 5 June, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U178	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. There is no wish to negotiate. No amendments have been tabled on the 451 draft, as we have heard. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 451. Let's get ready for this. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme to support the reconstruction of Iraqi defence capabilities led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' 451. Please take a stand and vote. 79 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one was against or impartial. Draft 451 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U179	23rd item: Second reading of draft Act amending the Law on district heating initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act amending the Law on district heating 264 before you was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 June last year. The first reading took place on 9 November and by the deadline for submitting amendments, no amendments to the draft were received from the Riigikogu by 22 February. During the course of the procedure, the Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Eesti Energia AS and the non-profit organisation Estonian Turbali, who proposed amendments to the draft. The representative of the initiator of the draft act forwarded his views on the proposals received to the Commission. The Commission also received a letter from the Competition Authority concerning these proposals. The committee asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the amendments. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also received some proposals in the course of their work. In addition, the initiator's representative formulated several proposals as a result of discussions in the working group. The preparation of amendments for discussion in the lead committee took place on 6 April and 13 April, including in Commission working groups involving representatives of the initiator. The text of the draft was editorially edited between the two readings. During the period between first and second reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its three meetings. Firstly, on 30 May, there was a debate on the amendments and a hearing on the views of the citizens who referred to the Commission. Timo Tatar, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Rein Vaks, who presented the content of the amendments, were invited to the meeting of the Commission as representatives of the initiator of the draft. A longer debate was held on Amendment 5 on the reference price. The main thrust of its report is mainly on this proposal for a reference price, as other proposals are relatively editorial. This fifth proposal is perhaps the most fundamental and was discussed in the Riigikogu. A total of 13 proposals were drawn up in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu, but, as I said, most of them are editorial. I will now introduce a bit of the debate on the reference price in which the members of the Commission expressed their views. Chairman of the Commission Aivar Kokk stated that the Competition Authority should always retain the right to verify whether the district heating company is making an excessive profit. There was also doubts about the proposed design, according to which the Minister would endorse the principles on the basis of which the Competition Authority would propose a specific reference price. It was thought that this might not be compatible with the Constitution. It was asked whether there was a risk that the Competition Authority would raise the reference price very high in order to reduce its workload. The representatives of the Ministry confirmed that the Competition Authority would not have the freedom to set the price as they wish, but should be guided by the principles established by the Ministerial Regulation. The question also arose as to whether in Ida-Virumaa, when adopting the reference price regulation, there would be a exponential increase in the price of district heating. Ida-Virumaa is known to be a special place, especially in Narva, where the by-product of electricity production is warm. So it is mainly waste heat, which is why energy prices are quite low. The representatives of the Ministry explained that according to competition law, no company has the right to abuse its dominant position on the market. With the addition of heat pumps, solar panels and other heating products, the heating market opens up to competition, which should keep the price down. Otherwise, if the price is too high, heat consumers simply leave the district heating network and look for alternative options. As a result, the district heating company would lose even more. The representatives of the Ministry once again confirmed that the risk was grounded by the competition law, which provides for strong sanctions in the event of a breach of competition rules, and explained that, in the event of a price change, the consumer could contact the Competition Authority to determine whether the company had taken advantage of the dominant position in the market by increasing the price. Most of the time, there is no basis for a sharp rise in prices. There was also a debate that the ex post follow-up procedure would be a time-consuming exercise and whether such risk-taking would make sense. The representatives of the Ministry pointed out that several bidders are still selling under the price limit set by the Competition Authority. The district heating sector is, rather, moving towards closer market competition. The numerical price increase rate was excluded from the regulation of the reference price because it was considered that this provision would have encouraged price increases. Supervision under competition law is sufficient, so there is no need to set numerical limits on the rate of increase in the draft. Whether the tenderer sells below the price limit or the reference price, it is legally obliged to comply with the principle of the design of the cost components. It was clarified that, after the amendment of the law, the providers of district heating have no grounds for sudden price increases. In short, the district heating law was mainly under discussion, I repeat, the subject of the reference price. Finally, in the debate, it came to the conclusion that one exception could be introduced, which concerns above all, as I mentioned earlier, Narva, where Estonia has a completely exceptional situation, so-called residual heat. This is also stated in the fifth amendment, which reflects the reference price. To conclude, there are 290 district heating regions in Estonia and in most of them prices are far above the so-called reference price. Only 25 district heating regions are priced below the hypothetical reference price. The level of the reference price was initially estimated at close to EUR 50 per megawatt-hour. To be clear, the reference price could be an engine or a'screw' that would force companies to invest. In particular, those companies that are slightly above this reference price to invest and achieve a situation where they do not have to coordinate each of their price movements with the Competition Authority. At its first meeting on 30 May, all amendments were examined and procedural decisions were taken. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 7 June, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to the third reading today. In fact, the Commission met again on 5 June. A number of questions had still been raised in relation to the same reference price and it was considered that this whole issue should still be discussed in depth in the working group, even with regard to the same issue of constitutionality and certain exceptions. It was therefore decided that it would still be unreasonable to put the draft on the agenda by 7 June. So on 5 June it was decided that this draft could be removed from the agenda and brought to this second reading by today, 14 June. There was also a suggestion that it would be reasonable to stop reading the second draft. We now come to the meeting of the Commission on 12 June, where, after these changes to the reference price regulation, Timo Tatar, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Rein Vaks, expert, again explained the content of the amendments and answered further questions. Certain changes were introduced as a result of the recommendation of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu. They assessed the alternative proposed in the past, according to which a reference price would be set by the Competition Authority, and thought that this would most likely be unconstitutional. It was therefore proposed that this price be set by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. There were a number of other debates. Finally, on the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Commission came to the conclusion that the subject still needs to be addressed, analysed and that it would be reasonable to interrupt the second reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that this draft be put to second reading by today's date, that the second reading be suspended and that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 p.m. on 18 September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U181	Questions for the waitress. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U182	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! In the Commission, the reason for this interruption was that the Minister wanted to be taken into consideration. I don't know if it was a joke, but that's what they said. I have a question because entrepreneurs are waiting. There were also loose details in the draft, some of which became clear with the help of both the members of the Commission and the MKM. Do you think we couldn't have processed this bill before the summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U183	I'm going to elaborate on what you're saying about digging in. In fact, however, we were talking about an analysis, which can also be taken as the equivalent of an envelopment. I have to admit, the lightning was still a little short. In order to analyse certain proposals, which you and your party partners also raised, there really is a need for more time. This is also demonstrated by the result of the vote. I must say here, as rapporteur for the Commission, that when all the other amendments were voted by consensus, there were two votes against for the same fifth amendment concerning the reference price. True, you were not among them, but there were two of your political parties who disagreed with this proposal. It is therefore obvious that there is still time to analyse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U184	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, A bit of fishing muffling, I understand that we are being interrupted from reading this bill because we were opposed to this reference price. In a sense, it is paradoxical because, as you mentioned, no amendment came from the members of the Riigikogu. In this context, it is extremely paradoxical that this is due to the proposal to suspend the second reading. I admit that there were disputes and disagreements about this reference price. At the same time, we must also take into account that there is, in fact, a well-founded expectation for both district heating and many other operators involved in this. And now we're going to delay this clarification for quite a long time. Rather, it would have been possible to withdraw this point of the reference price from the bill, at least in other respects, that there would have been clarity in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U186	Thank you! You exaggerated a little. I'm sure the members of the Reform Party aren't responsible for this interruption. In fact, we were quite in agreement on the calculation of the reference price and it is worth looking back a little bit in time. To be honest, this draft law on district heating came to the Riigikogu without a reference price. We still came to the conclusion here, while debating and analysing this in so far as it came to the conclusion, both with interested parties and with the Ministry, that it would still be reasonable to include it in the draft reference price. When we looked at this draft during the debate, in fact, the reference price is quite a bearing part of this whole price regulation. There is no doubt that this is needed in the bill. Although we have had this draft for just over a year in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, it has been prepared, I may have been a little wrong for four to five years. And from the beginning, the same reference price issue has been in quite an important position. There's nothing to do. We have had examples that if there is not much clarity or agreement on matters, then it is a more reasonable time to take down, not to stop reading the less perfect bill or to adopt a law that does not change things very much. Could we have done it or not? To be honest, the initiator has the legal right to do so with this draft and has decided to propose that the second reading be interrupted. The Commission does not have much more to say if the initiator has such a desire to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U187	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U188	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Here the question arose as to why the second reading would be interrupted. Let's be honest, district heating is a problem in many regions. In the case of home expenses, the main cost comes from the heating economy. And even if the members of the Riigikogu understand it differently at some point, it is right to take time off, to review it together and then make decisions. The reference price has both pros and cons. It is certainly one plus why many companies would like to get under the reference price so that if they then made investments, they would not increase the price, but their profit margin would be higher and they would get their investment money back faster. On the other hand, it is always the risk that undertakings subject to a reference price may also abuse it. And when that question came up, we could not find a solution together. There are two options. The fact that the Minister withdraws the draft, which is always the right of the initiator, was a compromise. We will interrupt the second reading, which will give us the opportunity to move forward with this draft in the autumn, look again at this draft and find the best solutions so that businesses currently operating in the warm economy can continue to operate after 2020. Then our houses should be much better insulated and turned into zero energy houses. And on the roofs of many houses, there's a renewable energy source, solar panels or something else. Secondly, I would very much like to congratulate a member of the Riigikogu who said that it is also important that the end user does not lose, that we want him to win. And I would also like to congratulate my former Commission officials who have endured with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U189	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U190	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! I too would like to praise someone with a good spirit, except with this bill, it seems that I have no one to praise. If this bill was a commodity somewhere in the mall, I'd start looking for a price tag to make it interesting how much such a thing costs. If there was a person who distributed ideas about the reference price, I would have the urge to take him somewhere in the centre of the Gulf of Tallinn to the neck and water of the millstone. I mean, since it is still paper, there is a better way to use it in the interests of district heating to simply burn it in the oven. I'm talking about this reference price. There are several-several people in this hall right now, I see Jürgen, Toomas, Aivari, who understand the economy and who can evaluate one or another formulation. And now I'm going to read to you: 'The reference price for heating energy reflects... '. It doesn't form, but it'represents an economically efficient... '. Please tell me what objectivity the word 'efficiency' has! It's totally surreal, it's your assessment thing. Or if you put it in the law, be good and explain what it means specifically. What formula are you going to calculate it with? So, the word'modelled'. What's modeled when we're talking about price? What you're going to model, I'd like to know. There's a price. If you are an entrepreneur, the price will be made up of your expenses. After you put some part in it, the chain adds something, transport, etc. The price is formed objectively. And you have to consider competition. We have a lot of monopolies in the district heating market. For this purpose, the Competition Authority is the one to which the price calculated in a very comprehensive manner is presented in accordance with the law. And that's where it's going to be, it's not being modeled, it's being confirmed. So, a week ago, there was a conference where I was solemnly informed that someone had already been able to calculate this reference price and that it was EUR 50. So this situation arises, for example, in my home town of Narva, the tariff is 35,62. If you read the law, everything in it, then the district heating service provider will have the opportunity to raise this tariff from 35,62 to 50 under the reference price. And all he has to do after that is report it to the Competition Authority. And the Competition Authority does not have to check that the price increase complied with the law or did not comply with the law. I admit our conversation wasn't very polite. But it was a total shock for me to know that such a law was being prepared. During the past period, our people paid 12 million dollars for the heat, and the city government paid 1.3 million dollars out of the city budget. I'm rounding, of course. There is now a chance that the burden on people will increase by 5.5 million and that the burden on the city administration will increase by 40% of this amount. Hey, how does a thing like that get in here anyway? However, a comforting amendment is being made, which is why there should be peace in the house. This is the first paragraph of § 9 (1) of the draft law, where this reference price is still written as follows: '... where the heat produced in the grid area is not produced with a cogeneration unit of heat and electricity with a rated electrical output exceeding 200 MW. ' Great, it's like taking Narva out of the way. But how am I supposed to feel about this? After all, in Narva, perhaps this is a surprise for you, the price of heat is calculated not on the basis of what is actually done there, but on the basis of gas. At the time, there were basic disputed methodologies on how to calculate the price of electricity and heat for cogeneration, how to distribute them, three: physical, economic, etc. And in total there are 30 models that are bonded one way or the other. Since this got complicated and the city of Narva came to me with the then Energy Market Inspectorate for five years in court, the solution was, after all, that we calculate the warm price on the basis of gas. I mean, we're going to have a huge investment in gas boiler houses built in power plants, right, if the temperature goes below minus 18 degrees, if memory doesn't fool me. You don't need it until then, but we're going to calculate all that volume. The easiest way to calculate the so-called "reference price" is if no agreement can be reached. And so, at first, Narva's going to get the reference price down. In a few years it will be reviewed and then the reference price will be not 50, but 70. There are dozens of district heating regions where prices can be freely increased. How does it work? I don't understand it. And another thing. I'm always asked, "Hey, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, whether there's been a meeting with the interest groups, if it's been done." The Chairman of the Riigikogu tells me this all the time. And we're trying. If I sum up, we've met some 30 organisations under these last five laws that we've worked with anyway. But it's basically missing. This is how you have happened, that those who sell, but those who buy, were involved in the development of this legislative amendment. All municipalities with district heating areas depend on this law. As far as I am concerned, you have not invited anyone to attend or talked to anyone at the time of development or here in the Riigikogu. How is it even possible that one of the parties who is going to sell is going to write the law for those who are going to buy it later? In my opinion, of course, it would be best to recall this draft, to expel it from the procedure and to start the process again when it is necessary. But if you stop reading, you should in any case make sure that one hundred percent of this autumn is also attended by local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U191	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came here to argue with Mikhail's views a little bit. First of all, the coordination of this draft or the discussions with stakeholders. As I said here in the Commission's report, this draft has actually been processed for three or four years. Already during the previous composition of the Riigikogu, this bill, including the same reference price, was made quite far. And it was then very clearly coordinated with local authorities and all stakeholders. Perhaps in this four or five years, this has been very, very much coordinated and discussed with stakeholders. Why is this reference price here? It may be very difficult to understand, but there is one very clear principle why this is here and why this is being done. During these long discussions, I was able to learn this for myself. In fact, it is a question of the whole district heating system. After all, the volume of district heating is decreasing all the time and it is decreasing first and foremost because of any alternative heating option. It is natural that they are used in all kinds of heat pumps, solar energy, etc. This bill also states that in these cases it is possible to leave the district heating network. However, there is a need to find some kind of incentive for district heating to function as effectively as possible in its steadily decreasing volumes. That is the idea that the same reference price issue has been introduced here. Mikhail pointed out that what this is in the Estonian circumstances, this economically efficient modeled district heating system price, the price of heat in the network area. To find out, the Competition Authority has a very large information base. And the Tallinn University of Technology has actually developed for us a model that takes into account existing technology, existing climate, existing routes in Estonia. So in that sense, you might think that the price is still the same. As regards whether, immediately, the warm price will be raised to this maximum possible level, I think this is a question of how the functioning of the market economy will be understood at all. In reality, as I said, there are 270.280 network areas in Estonia and only 25 of them are currently able to offer a price below this hypothetical EUR 50 per megawatt-hour. Most people have a warm price at 50, 60, 70 or 80 euros. However, none of those below the EUR 50 threshold (including Narva) are asking for the principle of competition after the price they have been charged at the marginal price. Nor does Narva, where the actual price is EUR 35 per megawatt-hour, although the marginal price is EUR 37. So you could always ask for more, but you don't ask for that maximum. The same is true in Tallinn and in many other places. So, in fact, this reference price would give'screw', above all, to those who have a warm price of 55 or 60 euros per megawatt-hour. They would know that if they were able to invest, they would achieve a better price level and be able to handle less red tape. They need such certainty about the future. It would therefore be quite reasonable to introduce this reference price here. As I said, in reality there are quite a few who would escape this regulation. And in the case of Narva, it is possible to establish a distinction which takes into account precisely the fact that there is residual heat, not the need to produce heat specifically.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U193	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U194	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When Aivar Kokk, a former colleague from the Committee on Economic Affairs, started out as district heating is a problem, I am not saying that district heating is a problem. District heating is actually an opportunity that has solved a lot of problems. But the point is definitely the sustainability of district heating. Mr Jaanus referred here to what reality is, after all, the volume of district heating is gradually decreasing, and so much so. Local authorities have established district heating network areas, but according to the current Code, homeowners are able to exit their area in certain cases using à la air heat pumps, geothermal pumps or also solar energy. This is, in my opinion, a very big problem, because the fixed costs of the network do not depend very much on whether there are 1000 or 10000 consumers behind this network. Okay, the size of the pipe and the first investment involved definitely differs from somewhere else, but the fixed costs do not change significantly. In reality, this means that the fewer people left behind this single network area in district heating, the higher the fixed costs that each of them will have to bear. In my opinion, the point is that what, in the end, will become a district heating area as such. After all, there is no point in creating illusions that everyone is switching to either air heat pumps or geothermal pumps. I, by the way, am also a geothermal pump user since 2001. It works extremely well and I am extremely pleased. But it's not all going to go over to them anyway. So what's gonna happen to it? The alternative is not, as it used to be in Pärnu: the city had 10,000 - 15,000 tossed chimneys, because everyone created heat for themselves in the house with their own local boiler house. In this sense, sustainability is certainly a very important issue. But, of course, I also share Mikhail's concerns. Narva's subject is not in a bad way, but it's always been before. I remember the time when Evgeny Ossinovski was categorically opposed to the reference price in Narva's mind. After all, the actual price of heat is significantly lower than the hypothetical reference price that has been put forward today. Of course, there must also be safeguards in the draft, otherwise it will not be possible to implement it in this way at all. So I think it's really a subject. It was a bit rhetorical for me to ask why they stopped. I think there are actually more than enough reasons to interrupt the second reading right now. But what worries me is that, if I remember correctly, the deadline for submitting amendments to this draft by decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs is the end of the first working week of our autumn session or the beginning of the next working week. I would argue that this is completely inappropriate, given the substantive views and comments that have been made in this Chamber today. In fact, I do not think that these amendments will come again, because nothing can be done by then. So that's a point. I do not know these rules of procedure, but perhaps it would indeed be possible to have a new deadline for substantially longer amendments or at least a position on this first week of work. I believe that all the members of the Riigikogu are working in general for the whole summer, but maybe district heating is not the subject they focus on during the summer. Therefore, I am not very optimistic and do not believe that by the end of the first week of September we will have nice and constructive amendments on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U195	There's no more calls. 13 amendments were tabled for Bill 264. All of these have been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is why they have been taken into account. Nevertheless, we need to review them: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh, the twelfth and the thirteenth. The second reading of Bill 264 has been suspended. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5 p.m. on 18 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U196	The second reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, follows. Economic Commission waitress, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U197	Mr. President! Colleagues! Minutes of the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, number 151, extract from Tuesday, 6 June 2017. The draft law amending the State Property Act 455 was also on the agenda for the second reading of the debate. Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance, was invited to the meeting of the Commission. He explained that the amendments made linguistic clarifications so that the wording of the law was technically correct and the content was unambiguous. So basically, we were dealing with a technical decision. Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kiisler and consultant Henrik Mägi, adviser-secretarial director Kaido Rosin and advisor Marin Daniel took part in the meeting. Tarmo Carrots, Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance, had been invited to a third item in the debate. Commission decisions on amendments. There were three amendments. First, amend Paragraph 801 (5) (5) of the State Assets Act, which is annexed to Paragraph 1 (4) of the draft Act, and formulate it as follows: 'has submitted to the Minister responsible for the field a declaration of interest within the meaning of the Anti-corruption Act'. The word'mean' was changed and it was explained that the word'mean' has been replaced by'mean' in the proposal because the word'mean' is more technically correct. This was the proposal of the initiator of the draft act and the Committee on Economic Affairs, which decided to take full account of it (consensus). Consensus means that all of the members of Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler agreed to this. Secondly, amend § 97 (6) (2) of the State Assets Act, which is amended by § 1 (23) of the draft law, and formulate it as follows: 'the profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow account of the second and fourth quarters of the financial year within two months of the end of the quarter'. The word 'quarter' was changed and the explanation was such that the word 'financial year' has been replaced by 'quarter' in the proposal, which is more precise. Otherwise, the second quarter would have a little bit of air hanging. This was the proposal of the initiator of the draft act and the Committee on Economic Affairs, which decided to take full account of it (consensus). This means that all of the members of Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler agreed with this decision. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda 14.06.2017. The decision was consensual or unanimous, i.e. the above-mentioned gentlemen were all in agreement with it. Secondly, it was decided unanimously to propose the termination of the second reading of the draft, i.e. the gentlemen mentioned above agreed. And thirdly, if the second reading is closed and the draft is placed on the agenda of the extraordinary plenary session, it was proposed that a final vote be taken. There were 8 members of the Commission: Aivar Kokk, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kisler. Toomas Kivimägi abstained. Signed: Aivar Kokk and Margit Ubaleht. Extract correct: Margit Beeht. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U198	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Three amendments to the draft 455 have been tabled. They are all presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself: the first, the second and the third. The second reading of Bill 455 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U199	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Insurance Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U200	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was in the large hall at first reading on 4 May. The deadline for amendments was 18 May. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by that date. However, the Commission prepared three amendments in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Number one. It is here that the mandate given to the Minister of Finance to establish the forms of statements is repealed. The Act confers these powers on the Central Register of Securities. By mistake, however, one of the places, in particular § 31 (3) of the Law, had retained the ministerial mandate and had to be removed from it. So this is a technical amendment. Number two. This has been done on the basis of point 1 of their letter of 17 May, on the proposal of the Estonian Insurance Association. As it was supported by the initiator of the draft proposal, it was also drafted as an amendment. Here is an explanation that § 49 is supplemented by paragraph 12 and states that the withdrawal from the pension contract is not subject to the third sentence of § 433 (1) of the Law of Obligations Act or to § 56 of the Law of Obligations Act. The Savings Pensions Act provides for a distinction in the award of the contract compared to the Law of Obligations Act. According to this, the customer has the right to withdraw from a distance contract within 14 days of its conclusion. Upon expiry of the deadline, the registrar shall arrange for the redemption of pension fund units and the inclusion of funds by the insurance undertaking. In other similar situations, where the law on funded pensions provides for differences in relation to the Law of Obligations Act, the draft contains provisions which clearly exclude the application of the relevant regulation of the Law of Obligations Act. Amendment 3 Paragraph 1 (48) is deleted from the draft, which wished to supplement the transitional provisions of the Pensions Act. The date of entry into force is now 21 May 2018 and time is quite enough, so this transitional provision is not needed. Before I inform you of the procedural decisions, it is also necessary to inform you why we discussed all this four times in committee during our sittings, when everything went so lightly and beautifully. This was due to the fact that the Commission, as once and as the court, sent letters of engagement to six organisations, received replies from three organisations, and one of them, specifically the Co-operative Future, made very interesting proposals. The proposal was to reduce the mandatory national pension rate of the pension contract (hereinafter RPM) by 700 times, which is EUR 123160, to 200 times, which is about EUR 35200; to allow all people who retire before 2025 to use the pension fund, regardless of how many savings they have accumulated in the second pillar account; and to supplement the funded pension law with an analysis obligation of the Ministry of Finance. The initiator accepted this proposal and even prepared a very substantial amendment, the main directions of which were as follows. It was suggested that an amount between EUR 50 and 200 RPM, or EUR 8800 and EUR 35200, would be subject to a life-long pension contract, with several pension contracts for the amount of 200 RPM. Point 2: In the case of an amount between 200 and 700 RPM, i.e. I will now round up between 35000 and 123000, the pension could be allowed to be paid on a fixed-term basis. The deadline could be set on the basis of an average life expectancy corresponding to the pensioner's age plus two years. In the case of an amount exceeding 700 RPM, the payment of money could be allowed at a time. We also approached the Committee on Social Affairs with this proposal and received, I would say, support from it. But then there was the feeling that such a great deal could not be done on the knee, and this was the Commission's consensual decision. In fact, this same future association of insurance companies mentioned also attended these meetings. They, too, felt that the Ministry of Finance should be given the task of doing an analysis of the impact of such an amendment and then come up with it in the autumn. Basically, this is quite a long time, so it would make sense for us to deal with it calmly. Thus, this amendment disappeared the most extensive and one that brings a great deal of new addition to the table of amendments. In the autumn, as we have already talked to the Committee on Social Affairs, we will move on to this issue, but already in a considered way. After that, a procedural decision, which was not original, had to be proposed to the Bureau to send the draft to the second reading of the large hall today, by 14 June, with a proposal to finish the second reading. This was proposed in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U201	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You also spoke very nicely about the future three proposals of the profit union. Let me get this straight: with one, with all this in principle, your committee will continue to work with the Committee on Social Affairs. But there were three proposals coming. So, what about the other two?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U203	It's exactly the same with the other two. They also require further study, but they were discussed and understood. I mean, we're going to base this future letter on which he turned, along with the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U204	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Tiina Kangro, please! [[Voices in the hall.]] Do you have a question? I'm sorry, but I'll be quick. Would you like to ask? [[Voices in the hall.]] I'm opening negotiations. Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U205	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I have become seriously afraid that we will not have enough issues until morning, I will give a little help and take the floor on this draft. All the more so, I think that some of the moments that were very disturbing during the procedure on this draft deserved to be brought out. I myself, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, heard about the current plan to amend the law on funded pensions only in connection with the first reading. Indeed, it may have been that, as recently as I joined the House, I did not know where to point the finger at, but the other members of the Social Affairs Committee also came unexpectedly. The question arose as to why the Social Affairs Committee was not involved in the debate on the pension bill. The answer that the second and third pillars are financial measures that do not concern those dealing with social issues is completely wrong. Pensions are in any case a social measure regardless of their form. And at first reading, it was stressed that the state's view is that all pillars must form a whole. When we began to raise this issue with the Committee on Social Affairs, with requests, demands and even minor insults, we achieved a situation where, before the second reading of the draft in the Chamber, the Social Affairs Committee was also decided to be involved. A week ago, in the Committee on Social Affairs, there was a debate on the subject, in which officials from the Ministry of Finance were invited. They walked through the door with this message: so, in the morning it was decided that the draft would be adopted in its current form, no changes would come, but we can explain the content of the draft to you. I asked if we had any reason to continue the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, labour laws should not be conducted in this way. Somewhere there is talk of good lawmaking practice. I have a text here saying, "Laughter in the hall." Now let's get down to business. There are a few moments I want to raise. In Estonia, pensions are extremely lousy. In all objective circumstances, they will remain crappy in the future. When the second pillar was introduced, people were shown images of the palm Islands and said that pensions were going to reach 70% of the salary, the message now is that the first and second pillars together should provide 40% of the average wage. A person has collected additional money for 20 or more years, given it to the assurance undertaking and will now receive 18, 30 or, at best, 40 euros per month through the second pillar. It's not a fair game. There is such a thing as a legitimate expectation in the world. People outside this house have a keen sense of the injustice of the second pillar as a problem. This has also been the result of years of criticism and proposals that have been a great deal read in the press. It is admirable that only politicians have not heard or understood this criticism for various reasons. The law on savings pensions definitely needs to be amended. However, it does not make sense just to do so because of the technical details that are currently written in the bill and even according to the officials of the Ministry of Finance. The aim should be to include fundamental choices for people who want to actively save themselves. It's an old truth that money can make money. And at least a large number of people are not stupid, but, on the contrary, often more inventive than insurance companies and financial institutions, which are now favored by the legislator's will. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U206	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U207	Let me give you a few examples. A person who knowingly shapes his or her livelihood may retire and reorganize his or her household in order to reduce costs. He can move to a cheaper area, put solar panels on the roof, or go to a southern European country. Already with an investment of EUR 10 000, a retired couple can provide themselves with an incoming cash flow over a year, which exceeds five times the pillar pension offered by the insurance company. Maybe some retired guy wants to buy a minivan and start driving Uber or he wants to buy land and start growing berries or early potatoes. It should be in the interest of the state to favour it, especially knowing that pensions are so perhaps very small. In my opinion, the possibility of at least legitimising the part of the money collected that exceeds the level of reasonable subsistence, if you wish to withdraw, divide the second pillar into a shorter period, keep it in the fund or in the company at your best discretion. Why not open the second pillar payouts to those over 55 years of age when health is torn, as is often the case for Estonians, and if it makes sense to switch to part-time work to keep it from feeding. In a developed world, many people do that. Politicians should tame their desire to decide for people every detail and point the finger at what is right and what is wrong. The state should trust people to trust the country. That is why I personally do not think it right for the draft pillar to be dealt with in its current form, despite the clause that we will be launching a new draft again in the autumn and once again a new one and, if necessary, we will have a night hearing. I intend to vote against the adoption of this draft. At the same time, I know that most people in this Chamber feel differently, and they are entitled to it. I just wanted to express my thoughts so that these things were stated and recorded, and we could continue these discussions in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U208	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U209	Mr President! I'm also taking this opportunity to talk. I have quite a lot of experience in the Riigikogu, but the chairman of the committee was only on a special committee for a long time, which did not deal with such drafts. Now there is a step-by-step experience, and sometimes I also have these questions about why the packaging excise law is passed on to the Committee on Monetary Affairs when it comes to the environment, or why the draft law amending the law on funded pensions is given to us when it comes to social affairs. And I want to pay attention to this, it was originally said that the new law does not change absolutely, does not reduce the possibilities that exist in the current law that it gives them more. But what gives him more is a financial instrument. These are higher-risk contracts linked to investments, etc. That's why we're working on this bill. And as soon as we went into the social sphere, we turned to the Committee on Social Affairs. So I do not understand any complaints or why it is necessary to vote against this law, if it is now in its original form and how much more likely you will be dealing with this forthcoming proposal. I think if we talk and think calmly, we could get rid of those assessments. While sitting in this Chamber, I hear, of course, basically in the case of the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Economic Affairs that there is some kind of tax, some sort of balanced price, a new tariff, etc. It all smells like money, but they're working on it. But now I'm starting to realize that we actually have to have some sort of division of work here. It is not possible that there are equally 10:10:10 on the three committees, and then there is a situation where there are 30 in each committee. We just can't deal with it, and someone has to take responsibility. And when the Board of the Riigikogu appoints the committee responsible, the choice is made and it is made at the level of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U210	I think Andres Ammas's speech on the subject was registered earlier. Please, Andres Ammas, speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U211	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group also believes that these proposals, which were suddenly, at the last moment during the procedure for this draft, will have to be dealt with both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the autumn. They deserve full attention and we will be sure to make sure that they are not forgotten in a drawer. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was quite emotional for a moment. I also understand the colleagues who are currently in the Chamber, who were twenty years ago in the formulation of the current principles of pension insurance, for them this issue is expensive. The principles formulated at that time are like brilliant, sacred and inviolable, but life has in the meantime made adjustments and shown that everything that was planned at that time with the best intentions has not come true. This subject deserves to be re-examined; we are obliged to do so. I hope that an in-depth debate on this issue will continue in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U212	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the owner of the second pillar, I have also had the urge to get the money somehow and to use it before, but listening to these speeches, they started already in the Commission and came from different political parties, and today from Tiina Kangro, I am terrified. People still don't understand what the pension system is for anymore. By the logic Tiina put forward here, we could declare all the state budget money our own, just say that a person knows better, give it back to him. And by that logic, we could definitely destroy the first pillar of the pension, saying that I don't pay social tax, I know better myself. We could distribute the money from the Health Insurance Fund, and whoever has more will get more back. This is a terrible logic, especially from the mouth of a person who has shown himself to be well social and caring on certain topics, aggressively caring, and especially in a situation where the first pillar is now really being attacked. The government plans to eliminate the dependence of the first pillar on contributions, which naturally means a reduction in these contributions, a reduction in incentives, an increase in envelope wages, but that is another issue. The second pillar is not man's own money, even the third pillar is not. Third pillar money can be taken out at the same time and there won't be any problems, but even there is roughly a fifth of the tax credit money. The second pillar is something that is planned statistically: who lives longer, lives at the expense of others who die sooner, pays the others. All in all, society will have a brighter future, i.e. not so much fear of income and poverty. And society does not have the burden of those who have made the wrong decision and taken the money out. That's what the three pillars were made for. I am a little disappointed in Mr Ammas's speech, too, as if it were because those who did were cute. No, the principles are actually the same, and the demographic situation is that people must be made to save with a state incentive. It's been done, it's built with columns. It is no longer enough for children to pay their parents' pensions. Now we have to collect ourselves, and the only way is for this second pillar. I've been thinking about flexibility myself. But I don't even want to think about it anymore when I hear that people are just coming, that the subject is being dealt with for the first time and that it has not met expectations. Listen, this is a matter of tens of years of cock, especially the first pillar that the government is tearing down. This is between generations, this is about people living longer and shorter, this is about men and women. Women will receive longer pensions and men will pay So, Tiina Kangro, I suggest you think about it! It is a terrible pity that this speech has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U214	Tiina Kangro has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U215	Unlike Jürgen Ligi, I'm not subject to provocation, which is why I'm calmly explaining a few things. They may also be checked from the verbatim. Jürgen Ligi got it all wrong when he got upset. I wasn't talking about all the money, including the first pillar, being paid out to a person, but about another thing. About what, I'd ask you to check if you were interested. But yes, those conclusions were inadequate others, with the exception of Jürgen Ligi, must have figured it out. Secondly, I found a point in the current law that says that even the person who has collected more than 700 times the state pension in the second pillar, or more than EUR 135000, must have earned a stable salary of EUR 10000 per month in 20 years, must put all the money in the insurance company. It cannot decide for itself what is more than 700, but must put it into the fund by way of a contract of up to five years. Then I realized that the state is still taking over all people, including those who are absolutely independent in the direction of their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U216	I'm closing the negotiations. Three amendments to draft 427 have been tabled and all of them are made by the commission: the first, the second and the third. The second reading of Bill 427 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U217	Second reading of draft Act 454 on simplified taxation of business income initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U218	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft law took place on 17 May. The deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May. No amendments were received from committees, political groups or members of the Riigikogu by that day and by that time. However, one amendment had to be tabled on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Paragraph 17 (1) of the draft is amended as it is necessary to amend Paragraph 6 (5) (3) of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. This provision lists the grounds on which a person is not counted as unemployed. The purpose of the amendment is only to supplement this list and to exclude registration as unemployed when a person provides a service or sells goods within the meaning of the simplified tax law on business income. Under the current Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, a person is not registered as unemployed even if he or she is employed in the public service. It was mistakenly out of the bill. The amendment therefore complements § 17 (1) of the draft with the words 'or is in the public service'. That's it. There was a committee meeting where we prepared the draft for a second reading. There were two letters. There were five interested organisations to whom we had sent letters of engagement. Two answers were given: Estonian Taxpayers' Association and the Banking Association. These questions, which they raised, were also submitted to the representatives of the government and received an answer. The main content of the letter of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association was that they consider that there are too many possibilities for tax optimisation in the draft and that, in essence, wage work can be taxed at half the price of the standard rate. The bank association was primarily interested in technical moments: how the tax is transferred to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and how processes, tax reservations on the business account and the seizure of the business account are foreseen. Procedural decisions were taken at the meeting on 5 June. First, send the draft to second reading by 14 June, today. A decision to terminate the second reading was also taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U219	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Did the Commission take an interest in and discuss the question of how many people might be interested in an entrepreneurial account and could create it for themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U221	Thank you, dear colleague. Yeah, we discussed it, but before the first reading. Then there was a parallel with the third pillar that there was an opportunity, but it's only used by the exact number I don't remember a little over 2,000 people, just over 50 companies. So there's going to be an opportunity, but how many people are going to use it, I don't know. The third pillar was supposed to be quite a mechanism for raising money, but somehow it doesn't work. If I may, I'll give you my personal opinion. I predict that we will eventually change this because, in order to obtain social guarantees, for example, it is absolutely necessary to transfer EUR 1300 per month. As far as I know, people who could use this account depend on the season. Sometimes, from the beginning of May to the end of October, for example, they actually have more than 2 000 euros, but the rest of the time is rather poor. I think that in the future, if the first results already exist, we could consider the matter and perhaps look at it on a yearly basis, perhaps replacing it with EUR 1300 per month with EUR 15600 per year. But it seems to me that for people with a salary of 1300 and a little over it, it would be quite tempting to get a 20% tax on health insurance and all that. But let's see, it's not exactly possible to predict anything here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U222	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I agree with you. I would say more than that is quite a still-born thing, which will probably not do any good because of the social tax obligation that you mentioned. But I want to ask you about another problem. Could this limit on VAT obligations, i.e. 25000 per year, not be slightly higher, for example EUR 40000 per year? Maybe you'd really be interested in a little more. With this rate and the current conditions, some lawn mowers may be able to join this system. In fact, it wouldn't pay off the lawnmowers either, because the fixed costs are too high. For example, babysitters may join, but in any case very individual providers of services. Couldn't this limit be at least EUR 40,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U224	I have to say a personal opinion, because we did not have a debate on this in the Commission. When I saw these percentages, 20 and over 40, I developed a parallel to the British tax system. There's also a "memory by memory," so that the tax rate for GBP 37000 is 20% and above 40%. But, yeah, that could be bigger. I think that these two issues will be discussed in parallel. With regard to this law, we certainly need to propose to the Ministry of Finance, after it has been in force for a year, that it draw up an overview of how effective this law is, and also to question potential system users in order to see how they see it. Ministergi said here at first reading that this is an experiment in the hope of helping a micro-entrepreneur. It's not like anyone can afford to pull this off with the first bang.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U225	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U226	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Creating an entrepreneurial account, creating such an opportunity is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. And this is the opinion of the Estonian Free Party's group as a whole, there were no passionate debates or different views here. But, above all, I would like to see what Mr Sõerd has already pointed out here that the EUR 25000 could be bolder and indeed allow the EUR 40000 limit. However, I also agree with my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin. Since this opportunity is still so new, it is probably wise to think now that in a year's time we will need an analysis to understand where there are bottlenecks and how to make this opportunity serve better. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association has the fear that in the shadow of this bill, which will, of course, become a law, there might be some sort of tax optimisation. I believe and hope that the people of Estonia will still not spoil this opportunity, that it will not really begin to do so. And the taxpayers' union also has another fear that it is local authorities, public authorities and foreign institutions that can abuse this possibility. This, of course, should be monitored, and this is where it is really ruled out by the same budgetary control, which apparently was also highlighted in the Commission in response to the fears of the taxpayers' union. Indeed, the number of people who could enjoy and benefit from this business account is now almost impossible to assess. I see here in particular one possibility for them, in particular, that these are babysitters, those are housekeepers, who do not have a lot of costs. On the other hand, this lack of cost-calculation will reduce the group of users. In any case, I would very much like to hope that the entry into force of this law will be preceded by a very good explanation work so that people can understand what this new opportunity is, what this new opportunity is, and how and when it will be useful. So I really want to put to everyone, including the press, that things should be spoken as they are, that one opportunity has been created and that we should make optimum, good and right use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U227	There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. One amendment to draft 454 has been received. It's from the lead commission, and there's no problem with that. The second reading of Bill 454 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U228	Second reading of Bill 457 of the Act on the Tax on Sweet Drinks, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Chairman of the Finance Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U229	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, I will first say that, at the committee meeting, I spoke about this previous matter, that when it starts to start, social advertising needs to be used. Without such a campaign, people won't take that into account. But now for the next item. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 17 May. By 31 May, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party tabled 11 amendments and Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu, tabled one amendment. We sent letters of engagement to 12 organisations and an interested group, and we received nine responses. Now, for the sake of the verbatim report, I will give a slightly more detailed overview of what took place in the Commission in the context of the debate on this draft. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association stated in its letter that the concern is the ease with which "discovered" new tax objects aimed at finding additional sources of income. The proposal not to adopt the draft as proposed has been made by the Association of Drinks Producers, the Estonian Food Industry Association and seven other organisations. As a major drawback of the draft, stakeholders have pointed out that the sweetened beverage tax does not meet health protection objectives. Predictably, the explanatory memorandum is accompanied by an analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which claims otherwise. Stakeholders have also pointed out that the draft is contrary to the principle of good lawmaking and to the norm rules, as it was not preceded by a programme of development and an analysis of impacts is incomplete. Doubt has been expressed as to whether the draft is compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and with European Union law. With regard to the implementation of the draft, doubts have been expressed as to whether the information systems will be completed by 1 January 2018. The immediate negative impact on businesses has been highlighted by the increase in administrative burden due to the production and submission of a monthly tax return. This is compounded by the fact that the draft has not been accompanied by the form of the desiccated beverage tax declaration introduced by the Ministerial Decree, which makes it impossible for economic operators to assess the administrative burden involved in the draft. The Monetary Commission met stakeholders on 6 June. This session was attended by the Estonian Food Industry Association, the Estonian Merchant Men's Association, the Association of Soft Drinks Producers, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Tallink Duty Free AS. Representatives of the Estonian Association of Pharmacists and the Estonian Association of Medicinal Products Wholesalers announced that they do not wish to participate in the debate. They confirmed that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, they have found a solution to their problem, and it is now possible to confirm that the new tax on Glucomedics and other such beverages used to test sugar tolerance is not applicable. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association and the Estonian Trade Union Confederation did not announce their wish to participate. During the sitting I am talking about, the participants gave a brief overview of their main points. The views of the representatives of the ministries on the views expressed were then heard. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs participated. The representative of the initiator of the draft act explained that compliance with the Constitution was analysed in point 3.2 of the draft explanatory memorandum. The initiator of the draft is of the opinion that the draft is not in conflict with the Constitution here; it is not an unacceptable violation of the freedom to conduct a business. As regards the compatibility of the draft act with European Union law, the initiator's representative stated that it is difficult to assume a contradiction, as such a tax has also been imposed in other Member States, not all but quite a few. However, it was considered necessary to take into account the comment made by the Association of Drinks of Soft Drinks that the tax base should be as wide as possible, that market participants should be treated equally and that the tax base should certainly include drink yogurt, kefir and similar products. This change leads to the need to supplement Estonia's application for state aid with dairy products. We talked about the subject of the application for state aid before the first reading. At the moment, I can announce that the text will be completed on 16 June, which is Friday, as promised by the Ministry of Finance. Where State aid is granted, these products shall not be subject to tax. Such a solution was chosen in order to rule out unambiguously the dispute with the European Commission, which could arise because some products are subject to this tax and others are not. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave an overview of the health protection objectives of the tax. Their presentation is included in the explanatory statement, which I have already mentioned. With regard to the additional administrative burden on businesses, it was acknowledged that any new tax would inevitably lead to an increase in administrative burden. In order to make it more predictable, the explanatory memorandum was authorised to include the draft implementing act, which is included in it. At the meeting with stakeholders, discussions were also held on the taxation of stocks (Article 12 of the draft new version). The initiator of the draft act explained that, according to the draft, the payer is the manufacturer, importer and customer of the sweetened drink from another Member State of the European Union when making it available for the first time in Estonia. From these persons, the sweetened drink usually moves out of Estonia, to the Estonian warehouse or directly to the place of sale. During the transition period, the obligation also arises to tax the sweetened drinks in the intermediate store. In this way, it is avoided that large quantities of sweetened beverages are stored in these warehouses, which should not be taxed. Okay. The initiators also said that, as of 1 January next year, not all sweetened drinks that are exchanged are automatically taxed, but that taxation takes place when the first event giving rise to taxation takes place. All drinks delivered to the point of sale before 1 January 2018 are exempt. The representative of Tallink Duty Free AS explained at the hearing how the sweetened beverage tax affects the shipping industry and proposed to complete the draft by introducing an exemption for the in-flight supplies carried on board water and aircraft. The proposal was supported by the Committee on Finance and presented as Amendment 15 on the list of amendments. Now I am talking about amendments. Amendments 1, 4, 9, 11, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 23 and 24 have been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The aim of these proposals is to remove all the paragraphs from the draft one by one because, as explained, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party does not support the introduction of a sweetened beverage tax. Okay. The author's explanation can be found in the list of amendments to Amendment 1. Staff announced that, according to the working arrangements, they should merge these amendments into one. In order not to do so, a Commission decision was needed. The Commission decided not to merge them and to keep these amendments on the list as separate amendments. Amendments 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 15, 18 and 19 have been prepared in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in cooperation with the initiator. Explanations of these are given in the list of amendments after each proposal. Amendment 10 has been drafted in the light of the proposal made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. This clarifies the taxation of a beverage sweetened with a sweetener. The aim is to motivate the sugar content of products to be reduced without the addition of sweeteners. The explanation is given in the list of amendments to the proposal. Amendment 22 was tabled by Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu. Its purpose is to provide the economic operator with additional information on the implementing act and the electronic format of the declaration. The proposal requires that the information system necessary for the administration of the tax be completed at least three months before the payment obligation arises. On a proposal from the Monetary Commission, the Ministry of Finance supplemented the draft and as a result the powers conferred on the Minister were clarified. This is mentioned in Amendments 13 and 18. A draft implementing act was also submitted and annexed to the explanatory memorandum (Annex 1). This draft indicates the data to be included in the electronic declaration form. The Commission decided to propose that this draft be sent to the second reading in the Chamber today, 14 June, with a proposal to conclude the second reading. Of course, there was no consensus. Somewhere around here are the results of the vote, I'm looking for them in case anyone wants to know the exact result. I think six were in favour and five against, more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U230	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U231	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! The main issue in the Committee on Finance was how the draft still meets these health objectives. You also referred to the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs attached to the draft. It's full of medical terms, but we're not medical experts in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let's take it well in general like this. According to the Institute for Health Development, these drinks account for 5% of the sugar consumed and 1.5% of the calories consumed. This is a very small part of the calorie and a very small part of the sugar. If we use the tax to reduce this consumption, say 20%, then this effect is completely non-existent. How would you explain this health argument anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U232	Thank you. Here, in short, it is very difficult to answer. That's what they say in Russian... No, I'm not gonna say that. There are statistics that I always believe in right now. This is the statistics I see on, for example, the website of the Tax and Customs Board or the Ministry of Finance. It concerns everyone and is absolutely accurate. If any studies are carried out, you can play with a sample, you can play with the questions you ask, etc. To be honest, I think it is important here not that one study shows one and the other, but that it is still a trend identified in the world that sugar is among the substances that activate and support obesity. There was an alternate on the Commission, and I find it very interesting that when a child eats something sweet, such as cake, he eats one cake and the other doesn't go in again, not to mention he eats 101⁄2 cupcakes, but he drinks lemonade in enormous amounts, if allowed. Absolutely right, I'm not a medic either, I don't even think it's necessary to study calorie and deal with all this health-related thing. But even if you look at it superficially, it's clear that sugar is what affects, and everything else is very estimated. I don't know if you think I answered you or didn't answer you, but I tried.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U233	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U234	Thank you, Mr President. A very honored waitress! My concern, however, is that, in my opinion, one of the greatest expectations of businesses is in fact legal clarity. We are now adopting or you are planning to adopt a law that actually questions whether, for example, dairy products and natural juices are taxed or not. If you were in the position of an undertaking, would you consider it more appropriate to ask for authorisation of State aid before it becomes clear whether this tax must be imposed on these products or whether they will be exempted from it and then the law will be passed, or if you think it would be the opposite, as is currently the case? If you don't mind, there's another question right now. I am very concerned about these exceptions. Is it true that a coke sold at McDonald's, for example, is not subject to that tax? If it doesn't, I'll ask you what makes the coke sold at McDonald's different from the coke sold at the store, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U235	Thank you. There were three questions, so I'll try to answer them. In fact, the law was worded in such a way that it had to be clear from the outset that all sweetened drinks would be subject to this tax. A certain confusion arose after one conversation came to our attention from an authoritative person, and I too began to believe that juices were not subject to that tax, and there was no mention of milk drinks. That's how it developed, and then there were milk drinks. But it's clear that when I talk about milk drinks, it's only those where sugar is added. There's this table that's supposed to be here somewhere. It's this 'Credit Drink Tax Act'. Lisa. Sweet drinks'. It's right after the law, after the bill ends, on the next page. It says everything that goes under that tax, and we don't have a choice. For example, the situation with milk drinks is that at first there was not even such an intention that they could benefit from this tax, but after that it became apparent that it would be taken as an exception for which a fine could be imposed. It is wiser to make this request at the right time. As far as the application is concerned, I do not know whether this is a logical process if the application is submitted before the law has been passed. I don't know that. In the beginning, I think there should be a legislative act and state aid can be applied for on this basis. The situation now arises that, firstly, we will be able to find out whether or not this request will be accepted already in September. Well, that's what the initiators say. If it's known if the application has been granted, it's like there should be some order in the house. If the request is not accepted, there will be an opportunity to change the law again. I can't tell you exactly when it was, but something like that had to do with gemstones: the law was passed, then some request was made, state aid was asked to allow, no answer was received, and then the law was instantly amended. Something like that comes to mind. Now for the third thing. Anneli, just move your head, okay? Is the coke free in McDonald's? No, it's not. Our staff, officials can believe more than me, they know more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U236	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U237	Thank you! Good waitress! I had a question quite similar to that of my colleague Thomas, but I will ask you this. Am I right to understand that the government does not in any way want to tax natural juices, yoghurts and milk drinks, but it has nothing else to do, because the budget hole has to be filled, and if the European Union does not make an exception, then it is not the government that is responsible for taxing these foodstuffs, but the European Union that is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U238	Thank you for your question. It's nobody's fault, it's just a liver. If the Riigikogu adopts this law, the tax will apply. Although we hope for better, we must also consider the possibility of a worse one. In any case, the third option remains: to change something in the law. When I'm talking about my personal opinion, I can say that knowing how much sugar there is in a drink yogurt, I wouldn't be so categorical at all. But as far as natural juice is concerned, of course, I don't want it to be taxed. Children are always told how right it is to drink natural juice, we have promoted it ourselves. So I guess that would be a somewhat wrong step. But I think it is wiser to discuss this in September when the answer has come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U239	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! As you said, the Ministry of Finance is preparing a state aid application. My question concerns the European Union, which is a single market and where there are certain competition rules. Is there a preference for domestic producers or foreign operators for the taxation of sweetened beverages and dairy products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U240	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U241	Thank you. I don't understand how you prefer anyone here. In the EU, goods produced within the same European Union are on a shelf in any shop. I don't see much difference between them. Such encouragement is forbidden, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U242	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U243	Good President! Good waitress! Have you done an analysis of the impact of this tax on the Estonian dairy industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U244	Thank you. This analysis has not been carried out. I have heard what dairy farmers themselves say. It's a question of drinking and eating habits again. I can't imagine how this analysis could be done, it's all so questionable. Yes, it could have been suggested that at the beginning of the analysis, but in my opinion, whoever orders the analysis will also get the appropriate result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U245	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U246	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission mention the main arguments put forward by the Ministry of Finance to the European Commission so that we could have an exception to natural juices and dairy products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U247	Thank you. It is nice to answer such a direct question. No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U248	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U249	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Your story has been very sleepy, it's been very difficult to follow. But you dealt with the bill. As a member of the Riigikogu, I undertake this draft, try to read, watch and find typographical errors, find incomprehensible arguments. For example, Paragraph 3 (1) states that sugar within the meaning of this Act is the same... Then there's the concept. However, paragraph 2 states that sweetener within the meaning of this law is the European Parliament, etc. It's a sloppy bill, it's not ripe. Did you discuss in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that we should take a slow time, put this bill in order and come to this Chamber with a proper text so that we can discuss it as a whole, for example, in the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U250	Thank you. I was trying to clarify the need for a physical-linguistic control of my colleagues on the coalition, which would have taken a few days longer. I would have preferred the Commission to have held an extraordinary session not on Monday, but Wednesday. Unfortunately, I couldn't convince them. As far as my sedating speech is concerned, it's a matter of choice. You don't like sleepy speech, and you think what I'm saying is sleepy. I don't like slogans again, and even less do I like stories about enemies from back in the day, as if they were from the Communist meeting. We live in a democratic country, we have a choice. If anyone says anything different than you, it's his right. He's arguing differently. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U251	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U252	Thank you. I have a completely substantive problem with this bill. The tax now goes down by 1.5% of the calories that a person consumes. You said your sense is that sugar is bad. But it's elementary that sugar is bad. In addition, yogurts and juices are taxed. That's the percentage I'm gonna have to check on the papers, and there's gonna be an extra percentage. But the food itself is half of the carbohydrates that decompose into simple sugars, just like sucrose. Didn't you, as the carrier of this draft procedure, have a question of the physiological effect of this matter? Was your interest limited to sucrose? I have a specific question, too. Sucrose, for example, breaks down into glucose and fructose, with fructose twice as sweet as sugar but twice as safe. Why is fructose subject to tax? Were physiological effects and health effects not considered at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U253	Thank you, Jurgen! I would remind you that you came up with the same thing in the Commission. You didn't get an answer in the committee, and you won't get an answer here either. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a physiologist, I'm not someone like that. If Viktor were standing here, maybe he could answer you on fructose and sucrose. We're talking about sugar in the sense of how it's defined in this law, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U254	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! When we started working on this bill, all we talked about was sweetened drinks. According to the explanatory memorandum, this tax was to be collected in 2018 in the order of EUR 16 million. Since there was a risk of a fine coming, we were forced, so I understood you, with almost power, to add sweetened dairy products. My question is very specific: how much money is going to be raised in the budget on sweetened dairy products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U256	Thank you. This is not yet being calculated because it is sincerely hoped that the application will be granted. We hope so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U257	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. You have also stressed today that this sugar tax is collected by several countries. However, you did not add that a number of countries have given up the sugar levy because it has not had the expected effect. If, now, the coalition is still pushing through this tax, this is probably what will happen, then money will be paid to the Treasury as soon as next year. My question is quite this: in many years' time, someone will be happy to stand here for Parliament and say that now this effect of the sugar tax is visible, the people of Estonia are thinner, their body mass index has fallen? How many years do you think it'll take?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U259	Thank you. It's probably not me or you who's standing here, it's the next slim and athletic generation standing on the remote and reporting this thing. Yes, there are already some representatives in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U260	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U261	Thank you. Good waitress! I read § 10 of the Act on Tax Exemption. Paragraph 6 of that provision states that a sweetened beverage at the point of sale and intended for immediate consumption is exempt from tax. I come back to the question of investor Thomas: is this, for example, the same McDonald's coke that has been mixed there and is being sold to people? Please make that clear!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U262	I am honestly saying that I knew that such questions would come, but I also realized that I, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do not need to know these details, indeed. At the moment, the answer to the question whether McDonald's had been taxed or not. It is such a small part of this tax. I think if you buy at McDonald's, there's a mark-up so big you won't even notice the sugar tax. So it's taxed there, or I don't really care. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U263	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U264	Honourable waitress! Mr President, of course. The draft law and the explanatory memorandum on the desiccated beverage tax talk a lot about health objectives, which have also been discussed in the debate on the draft. If I listen to your answers, it seems to me that you do not understand very well what these health goals are. You have replied here that you do not consider it necessary to examine the effects on health. This is also understandable because you do not understand how sweetened drinks work physiologically, you do not understand what sugar, fructose or sucrose is. The question arises as to why this tax is needed at all. The bill states that the tax will be paid to the State. What will this tax actually do? But the question is, in fact, why didn't you include the Social Affairs Committee in order to understand things?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U265	Thank you. We had a pleasant discussion here on this topic on the previous agenda, as to why we did not work with the Social Committee on the Pensions Act. To be honest, I certainly came to the conclusion that yes, sometimes the packaging excise law is sent to your committee and there is nothing to do, and you actually deal with the environmental problem. Sometimes your committee is sent to the same sweet drink tax law. That happens every once in a while. We all have to take responsibility at times, and this area of responsibility may go a little further than what we have imagined. Now for health problems. We hope, yes, that this tax will affect health behaviour and, at the same time, provide additional resources for the state budget. It's made for noble purposes. This government has large investment plans and is in the process of carrying out large programmes to help the health care system, the education system and the municipalities. As a wise person, you should understand that these goals need to be met and that resources need to be provided. In an analogous situation, you would do exactly the same: you would look for sources where resources can be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U266	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U267	Good waitress! I remember six months ago when you defended the government's new drafts as the new chairman of the committee. So you also fulfilled this role by saying that you are not familiar and do not understand. At the time, it might have made sense. Now, six months later, these answers, of course, no longer sound so convincing. To be honest, it is quite unprecedented when the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs says that he is not interested in the impact assessment and that he does not know exactly what will be taxed and is still so proud of it. This is actually a bit of an insult to the Riigikogu. We want to know. From whom, then, should we receive these answers if not from the waitress? I and my colleagues, being a minister or chairman of a committee, have never allowed for such a condescending attitude. But I'm asking you about something you should know. What is the effect of this tax on the price level? This tax will certainly affect people who have an important place in their food basket for drinks and who have difficulties in coping.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U268	Thank you. Please don't patronize my behavior! In my opinion, the main task of the committee chairman is to ensure that the coalition's drafts are dealt with in a timely manner in accordance with all practices and customs. What do you want? Do you want one person to suddenly become a specialist in healthy nutrition, packaging and pension provision? You know, there are enough officials to do this, people who work in this area. They always have the opportunity to clarify all these things. When I studied mathematics at the University of Tartu, we were all clear that the lecturers were divided into two groups. Some wanted you to stub his substance into the head 100% so that it would be in memory from the beginning to the end, and they didn't care what was happening to a person, if he had eight exams during the session, half of them in mathematical subjects, it was necessary to learn 30.40 theorems, etc. But other faculty members were like one named Kaljulaid, who gave the opportunity to think about whose exam it was possible to use educational material, all kinds of guides, etc. He was interested in how a person can think. He didn't think you needed to know a thousand facts because you never need them in life. You don't like someone telling the truth, but I'm telling you the truth. I don't think I'm a coke specialist, and I don't think I need to be such a specialist. We have a law, it's a tax law. This coke question is like Tallink or some other company. It's very tight. I have specialists who know better than I do. What am I supposed to do with all this? In fact, it doesn't work that way, and when someone tries to do that, the result is usually pretty bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U269	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the commission! I want to explain a little bit. A colleague asked about the creation of a competitive advantage. You answered a little crooked. There is really no competitive advantage in Estonia, but this advantage arises in other countries because we are getting more expensive because of the tax. Latvian goods or Finnish goods have this competitive advantage. That was an explanation. But I did, and I think that very many of us, I think all members of the Riigikogu, received one letter, which is concerned that there may now be buying lemonade from Latvia and Finland, especially from Latvia. Will there be another shopping race over there? Was that discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U271	Yeah, they discussed it, but split it with a joke. Would you go to Latvia or Lithuania to buy lemonade? As regards the advantages we create for foreign goods, this is not true, because this tax comes after the moment when the goods are brought into Estonia. I mean, this is the first event that's going on. On Latvia's territory, yes, there is a certain advantage: the same goods are at different prices and this sweetened beverage tax may distinguish these goods. But when goods are brought from Latvia to Estonia, this tax will be increased. [[Shout from the hall.]] No!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U272	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The last paragraph of your answer should mean that the competitiveness of our goods in countries where there is no internal tax should be weakened. But I was really impressed by your statement that you don't care and you shouldn't even know what's gonna happen to McDonald's. We weren't talking about McDonald's, we were talking about retail, we were talking about when the product was made on site. Let's get some more movies in here. You know that Estonians are one of the biggest cinemagoers in Europe and perhaps in the world. This actually means that this impact on health, which you call dangerous, may prove to be just as great, but you have not discussed how the use of the product in the retail trade and so on. Are you willing to admit that you are not familiar with some of the matters and have not involved any of the helpers who would have been willing to assist you on the remote?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U274	That's it? Thank you. No, I won't admit it. What I'm saying, I've never hid from anyone. That's exactly how I think that if there's an apparatus, or people who can answer questions and solve problems, that's their business. Now let's think about what you said. Does it show your unprofessionalism when we are discussing, for example, the law amending the Law on district heating and you do not know, for example, which tariff is in Tallinn, Tartu or Narva? Is that right? Do you really think it's possible to know everything in this world? I'll tell you what kind of system I've grown in. When I was a teacher, I gave people the mechanism and they had to understand what was working and how. After that, more vocabulary came along. If a person needs to, he will find those words. But I don't see the need to just pop a thousand words in my head that won't be needed afterwards. It's kind of an approach, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U275	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I thought it was very sympathetic when you said you didn't have to put things in your head, but you could still understand things if you wanted to develop and learn. I have come up with a question on what basis is your hope that the European Commission will give us an exception if you have not understood what arguments this request for derogation is based on at all. Or do you not give hope or believe that the European Commission will give us an exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U277	Thank you. Applications shall be drawn up and submitted. Ministers, on behalf of the requests, go to the Euro Committee, negotiate and do everything they can to succeed. How can I be sure of anything right now? Yeah, there's an internship. Sometimes it's given a chance. If this is asked, however, most of the time it will be met, in the sense that this exception will be allowed. What is the basis for this hope? I understand your logic in such a way that I should be the person who prepares this request. [[???L. Kersna vahelehüüe: 'Te peaksite teadma põhilisi ...'???]] Why? (L. Kersna's floor: 'Why?! ') Yes. Why? (Comment from the floor: 'You are the chairman of the committee! ') Do I need to know how to prepare an application? How many thousands of documents a year will the Government of the Republic put together? How many thousands of documents come out of the Ministry of Finance? What are you talking about? It's so funny. Unbelievable! There are competent people who are paid for this work, who have been involved in this process for years. You here think that if the people elect you to the Riigikogu once in four years, you are ready to know everything that every last official of the government does after that. Are you kidding me? Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U278	Let's continue the round of questions, the evening's still young. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I certainly don't want to pour oil into the fire, I'm just gonna ask you this way. You were pretty sure we'd get that exception. Has any country already received the exception that we are now applying for, i.e. the exception for dairy products and natural juices? Has any of the countries where the so-called'sugar tax' or'sweetened drink tax' have been introduced been granted such an exception? The second question relates to this: have you included in this expected income the income from dairy products and natural juices or not? If you have counted, you should also know this amount, because if you have an exception, the revenue will be reduced in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U280	Thank you. No dairy products are included in it, as far as I know. In the sense of sweetened beverages, lemonade, cola, and other such drinks and juices are taken into account. But I'll tell you again about the application. The Commission discussed when the request would be made. And to those puzzled people sitting behind you, I could have answered that there was no mention in the Commission of the principles on which this request is based, and so on. Shit, I'm in the same bucket again. I'm telling you the truth, what I mean, and you again... I don't know, from here on out, it reminds me of some kind of panic, even though I think it's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U281	Once again, I have a suggestion to correct rhetoric. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U282	Thank you. Well, frankly, it's sad, it's really sad to hear all this. If the chairman of the committee does not know what he is talking about, what the content of the draft is and what the government association wants to do, then it is really sad. You can't answer like you don't have to. Come on! You have the opportunity to invite a member of the Government of the Republic of the remote in your place. The law provides for this possibility. Well, get out of that remote, let the minister take charge, if you don't know anything. But I'll come to the question. I still can't leave this impact analysis alone. One side is that yes, the government union is planning to get revenue through this tax. But how much does it cost? Are you sure it will be possible to implement this law from 1 January? How much does the state and businesses incur in this regard and what is the net impact of the 15 million so-called 15 million you plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U283	Thank you, Mr. Pevkur. Just last week, you stood on the remote and told us about the electronic vote. Then suddenly it became clear that you were not familiar with the day on which the outcome of the electronic vote could be altered and not on which day. So don't teach me, don't give me morals. You're much less on your political issues... [[H. Pevkur's comment from the floor.]] I let you talk, now you listen! As far as expenditure is concerned, the Commission was talking about whether there would be administrative costs, and the answer was that certain administrative costs would arise. They are inevitable when a new tax comes, but the declaration is made electronically and these expenditures are not noticeable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U284	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U285	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I don't think anyone in this hall is expecting you to be a food technologist or have chemical reactions and can explain them all to us. No one expects that. However, it is expected that the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will be able to formulate the objectives of the draft, the fiscal implications, the behavioural impact and the state aid, which are very important for this draft. There's no way to throw these questions out the window. I hope your preparation will be better in the future. But I'm asking again about the non-taxation of locally prepared sweetened drink. It's kind of a matter of principle. If someone makes a dessert on the spot, it won't go under tax, if you go to the store and buy some dessert, it's under tax. Please explain this philosophy! Why is such an exception made? If the goal is to achieve healthy behaviour, it does not really matter whether this sugar drink has been prepared locally or if it has already been put in a jar that is then sold at the store.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U286	Thank you. Sweet drinks are usually made from syrup and are subject to tax. By the time he gets to where the drink is made, the tax is already paid and it's included in the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U287	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U288	Thank you. Mr. waitress, try to concentrate now! I told you that sodas, according to the papers, produce about 1.5% of the calories you consume, and carbohydrates that actually produce a similar result in your stomach, about half of them. The big idea is to deal with this 1.5%, but in realising this big idea, they leave, say, most sugar, for example, all sweets, untouched, but they probably touch natural juices, yoghurts and milk drinks. Is what is now being touched in passing greater than or equal to 1.5%? Is the jacket sewn to the button or the other way around? I mean, calories and state taxes. Any record of that? I was looking, but I couldn't find it right now. Do yogurts, juices, and milk drinks give more calories than lemonade sugar, and do they bring more taxes or less? What's this relationship about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U289	We certainly did not discuss this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U290	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U291	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You certainly cannot answer that you do not care how much burden the taxpayer will face. You are the legislator in order to protect the interests of the taxpayer rather than burden him with incompetent taxes. You have still not answered the question of what this expected tax revenue is. Please remember what the initial number was when only soda-like drinks were at issue. Looking at people's food habits, it might be expected that this tax revenue will increase by up to 150%, as dairy products will increase. This income could be even higher. Why am I worried about this profit? For the next six months, Estonia will hold the Presidency of the European Union, making it a huge burden for officials. Is it realistic to get a response from the Commission in this six-month period? We cannot vote as legislators if we do not know the final figure, which is this expected revenue, which is the burden on the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U292	Thank you for your question. At first reading, these figures were stated: 15, 16, 17 and 18 years, subject to transitional provisions. Nobody makes a secret of it. What are you talking about? [[???K. Kübarsepp saalist: 'Piimatoodetest.'???]] This was not mentioned in the Commission; there were no questions on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U293	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It was probably not mentioned in the Commission either, but I did have a question about it. The chair said that rhetoric should be corrected. He didn't say who should correct it, either the people in the hall or you. Do you have any idea who it was about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U295	Thank you. I think that was for both of them. I understand you don't like my views and my vital principles, and you show it how you can do it. It's inevitable because we're very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U296	My point was that we all swear when we start working in the Riigikogu. Later, jurors are not welcome in the grand hall of the Riigikogu. George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U297	Thank you. Listening to the discussion here gives me the idea that you did not really discuss anything of substance in the Commission. But there was one thing you had to discuss. I understand the explanatory statement that there was an overview of the effects on health. There is also a slide here on what is being done to prevent obesity and promote exercise. That's what we were talking about. However, since this sweetened beverage tax has a preventive objective, this tax should actually go to the prevention of obesity and the development of exercise. How much did you say in the committee? Why have you not allowed this money to be directed towards these specific objectives in the draft? It would have some effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U298	Thank you. The government coalition aims to provide additional funding for the health care system; this money goes there and meets these objectives. As for the start of your question, we have the law on the table, both you and I, it is the law on the tax on sweetened beverages. It says tax object, the one that's a sweetened drink, the terms. One of you reads that sugar within the meaning of this law is the same, etc., and then says that it is completely incomprehensible what it was meant to say. Well, keep reading, keep looking! What do we need to discuss? We need to discuss tax receipts, taxable persons, tax rates, transitional rates. What are we talking about? Fructose, sucrose, health behavior. Well, I'd rather have this bill in the Committee on Social Affairs, I think, but somehow it came to us, the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U299	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U300	Thank you, good manager. Honourable answer! I hope you don't get nervous about the question I'm asking right now, and you're gonna take it easy. Here's the question. The dessert levy is intended to receive an additional EUR 15 million in the state budget for 2018. According to a study published by the Estonian Institute of Economics this week, the country lost 15,6 million euros in alcohol excise duty due to the secret market in 2016 and 54.4 million euros in tobacco excise duty. Tax increases always put pressure on the secret market and cross-border trade in all areas of activity. What measures will be taken against salami soda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U301	Thank you. You forgot to tell me that because of the envelope salary, we lost 109 million. If you could show me the person who's gonna bring in the secret soda, and I could figure out what he is and who he is, then maybe we could figure out how we're gonna fight it. I can't imagine the person who's gonna carry lemonade like that. How much can he pick up? 50 liters. For what? To get 10 euros. Good, you're kidding, I'm kidding. The idea that there will be a secret soda market, no excuse, is too much even for the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U302	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In the course of the debate on this draft law, the Commission has met representatives of several interest groups, both traders and producers. Have parents' associations, for example, been among them? Is there any interest groups that are directly affected by this bill, who are in favour of it and who have expressed a bit of a supportive attitude? Aren't you afraid that the opposition in society is still very, very serious?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U304	Thank you. No, I don't see that. Krista, this is just a normal thing. When people hear about a new tax, an increase in tax or an increase in excise duty, they are always opposed. However, if you start telling them that their local government will receive 1.5 million of this money for road repair, they will have the opportunity to take their child to a repaired school when you tell them that from next year, for example, those who receive an average salary in our city, for example, have a real average salary of EUR 800 per year, will be able to get another salary if you explain that all these investments, programmes and income increases depend on whether or not we can find this money anywhere, people will understand. Yeah, you'll really understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U305	Terje Trei.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U306	But, yes, to the meeting we invited those in this business, and we talked to them first and foremost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U307	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U308	Thank you! I do hesitate a little, because I don't know if I'm gonna get an answer to my question, I certainly don't want to get mad. Maybe my incompetence will upset you a little, but I hope you answer nicely. I'm worried. I've got some people who eat very healthy, they're teaching me, but I haven't learned very well yet. They consume plant milk, it is soy milk, oat milk and such products. As a general rule, all these products, when they are traded, are always with a low sugar content. Will all these vegetable foods, which are already a little more expensive than conventional ones, become even more expensive and it will be very difficult to eat healthily?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U309	If there are small quantities of sugar, for example less than five grams, then it does not have an absolute effect on the price. A healthy diet also means a healthy intake of sugar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U310	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U311	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Dear waitress, you have made a comment on district heating. I probably do not know all these things by heart, but I dare say that if a person is leading the Commission, he could know structurally what is being consumed, what is the costs and what is the volume of the market, so that he can make an adequate assessment of the impact that this tax increase could entail and assess who is most suffering from it. Am I right to understand that you are philosophically in favour of such a committee and are also the chairman of this type of committee, who is actually a postman or a mailman? This means that the Ministry will bring you drafts and you will simply report them without rhetoric, analysis and content, and you will not care what the effect and outcome of these things is. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U312	Thank you. I'm sure I do, but I don't think I'm the smartest. I have a collective and this collective is made up of members of the coalition as well as members of the opposition. I have always tried to listen to everyone and to balance as much as possible and to take all reasonable proposals into account. In my opinion, my job is that I have the opinions of ten people, plus five, six or seven organisations, there are the opinions of one, two or even three ministries, and all of this needs to be coordinated and a positive background set up. That's where I see the content of this job. Rather, it does not mean reaching out for an expert. You know, that would be a little weird. I have a pretty big leadership experience. I ran the Narva City Council for eight and a half years. I think it wasn't much easier than running the city of Tartu, maybe it was even harder. This was linked to quite a number of problems that needed to be resolved at all times. If I had tried to present myself as an expert on every issue, it wouldn't have moved on. If you are the leader of something, it is up to you to find reasonable, intelligent, and wise people and to allow their initiative to materialise. I think it's the kind of leadership that's right, not that I'm gonna learn everything for you, and you're gonna do what I say. It's never gonna happen anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U313	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U314	Thank you. Good waitress! In my opinion, the plenary sessions are designed to make sure that those members of the Riigikogu who are not currently part of the commission can ask questions about the draft and also get an idea of what happened in the committee. My previous question was very specific, but you replied that you did not care about these issues and that you did not need to be familiar with them. Would you then be able to take a break and bring yourself up to speed or send someone smart to the remote like you said who could answer these basic questions? It is not just some random little detail, but it is a very fundamental matter: are those drinks sold, for example, in fast food or whatever chains, taxed or not? Please make this clear to yourself and give clear answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U315	Thank you. They don't go under tax. That's all I can tell you. And also... No, thank you! They shall not be taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U316	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This bill has a significant impact. Just as before the first reading, even before the second reading, entrepreneurs and interest groups led us here in the Riigikogu to point out that good legislative practice has been violated. This means that there is no plan for development, there is no assessment of the effects, and we do not know how much revenue we will ultimately receive from this tax into the state budget. At first reading, I was told that this was an urgent draft because the Government of the Republic has decided so. Please assess whether it is normal and reasonable that we simply come with one bill and say that we were in such a hurry that we could not carry out analyses. Is that how it will be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U318	Thank you. I hope that this will not be the case in the future, but in December a situation began where horses needed to be changed very quickly. The new coalition cannot live with the rules established by the former coalition. It freaks me out too, and I don't like it, but there's just no way out of it. I sincerely hope that there will be no more situations like this, that such a thing will end today in this session, and that there will be no more urgent drafts, as you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U319	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U320	There is the Russian term 'Kakoje sovpadenije, pojezd ushol i and opozdal'. I look at Facebook and I see that the Minister of Finance is planning 20 million proceeds. I'll keep looking, farmer top-up, plus 20 million in revenue. Coincidence, coincidence, or what is that? How have such coincident figures developed? All the more so because you have always stressed that you, like these figures, are not interested in you; it is actually a social matter and so on. But now two very simple numbers coincide. There must be an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U321	Thank you. That's a good question. The numbers are the kind of thing that repeats them. If you look at the clock, you'll discover zero in one place, two in another. If you're looking at any book, there's page 20. If you look at the prices at the store, sooner or later you'll find something that costs 20 cents or 20 euros. Why the figures are collapsing is a separate question, such a philosophical question. I don't think my level will allow you to answer such a high-level question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U322	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U323	Thank you very much. Mr. Stalnukhin! In Saaremaa, Kaarma, a nice proverb has been written down that the questioner will not be struck at his mouth, but the taker's hand will be snatched. Its morals are still suitable for a place where people ask different questions. Among other things, I was taunted that I was kind of joking around here. I'm definitely not kidding. I'm asking questions I want answers to. We have long understood that the sweet tax is being introduced not to improve someone's health, but to fill the treasury. There are also exceptions to this certificate if a tax is imposed on some foodstuffs and no other food is put on them. Are you aware that the Ministry of Finance has already addressed the European Commission so that Estonia can apply the exemptions by applying sweet tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U324	Thank you. I hope you will not take this as a mockery when I say that I have already answered that question twice today. On 16 June, the Committee on Monetary Affairs promised to show us the draft document. After the law is adopted, hopefully, this document will also go to Europe. When the document is ready on Friday, he'll probably leave next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There is no point in asking much about this bill today, because we cannot get answers. It would be wiser to send these questions to the Ministry of Finance or to the initiator, and we will certainly do so. But I have a question about the assessment you gave yourself from this remote control. It was a question of administrative costs. You said they weren't significant. But we read in the draft explanatory memorandum that the IT development costs of the tax administration alone for the introduction of a new tax amount to EUR 1 million. 15 million proceeds and one million goes to IT costs! This includes the costs incurred by economic operators and is significant. In addition, the Tax and Customs Board must start to take samples, send them to a laboratory and the laboratory's analyses must be paid for by the operators in most cases. Do you really stick to your assessment that these are not significant costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U326	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U327	Thank you. I think I misunderstood the question. I understood that there was a question of administrative costs for producers and sellers. This IT cost, which is indeed, yes, one million euros, can be regarded as a high cost, but it occurs once and after this development is used for several years. After that, maintaining the system will cost at least ten times less over the years. But the administration of all taxes is related to costs, it is inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U328	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U329	Thank you. The executive of the bill! I still have the same question to ask you about bringing goods across the border. I understand very well that if one company completely officially imports taxable goods, it will pay for it. But the question is still those people who cross the border and buy something from the other side of the border. If they buy it for their own use, that's it. This is still the case with alcohol, and tobacco products and construction goods and other items are being followed in Latvia. Now there's a chance they're gonna go shopping for sweetened drinks. I agree, maybe they don't buy them very much, but they do. So, when you cross the border with a sweetened drink, you put a tax on these civilians? According to your answer, that was the first time you had the impression. I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U330	Thank you. It was a completely wrong impression. Individuals do not have to pay this tax. Border trade does not exist at all because there are different taxes in different countries, one country is visited in another country, etc. The same is true in the old Europe: on the one hand, the border is purchased with fuel, on the other hand, certain foodstuffs. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U331	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U332	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear waitress, If you were in opposition, you were also interested in various impact analyses, and you were a very diligent representative of the people. But it looks like after you went to the coalition, things have changed a little bit. I will ask the same question for the third time in my accounts, and I hope to have a concrete answer. Today we adopted the Public Procurement Act under the first item on the agenda. This clearly increased the costs for operators who have to tender them. What is the impact of this tax amendment on businesses? After all, administrative costs are increasing as a result of the increase in bureaucracy. What is the percentage of this revenue compared to the costs incurred by undertakings?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U333	Thank you. I say once again that both in this Chamber and in the Commission we are talking about this revenue that is being paid into the state budget. My colleague Sõerd has just rightly said that the explanatory memorandum talks about the increase in administrative costs, say, for the state, as a result of the preparation of the IT system. But it will be seen in the receipts: 15, 16, 17 and 18 million over the next four years, and this is also a forecast, no one knows how well it will be fulfilled. It's a matter of time before we find out. You don't analyze other things that much. However, I would like to tell you that I have quite a long experience of being in the Riigikogu, but I do not remember another period like the last six months, when so much has been said about all the analyses that need to be done for the drafts. I have this feeling at all, although, yes, there is a need for such analyses, but I have a sincere feeling that this topic was created at all with the formation of this coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U334	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U335	Let's talk about health. The Committee on Monetary Affairs is very interested in human health, not that sugar is harmful, etc. Professor Mihkel Zilmer: "There is no objective picture that increased consumption of added sugar would cause more diabetes. When you start using these populist slogans, it's a little crazy. ' He says it's bad. Okay. Mihkel Zilmer is our dietologist #1 I hope it doesn't raise any doubts, so there's no connection between health and sugar. Please! I mean, I'll pass on the quote just in case. [[Passes on a sheet of paper quote.]] I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U336	Thank you. You're talking about Dietologist One. I don't think I'm gonna judge him. But I know from my life experience that as many as there are people, there are so many different experiences. Somewhere there are dietologist No. 2 and dietologist No. 3, and other countries have their own dietologists. So if there's a wish, you can find proof of any opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U337	Igor Gräzin asked the question along with the movement. Next question, Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U338	Thank you. Honourable Commission waitress. In a self-critical way, I must say that perhaps the drafts should be read more frequently. But since there were questions here today, I started reading. Fortunately, the law on sweetened drinks is very short and simple. In my opinion, the concerns that some commies have raised about locally prepared and ready-to-be-cooked drinks, i.e. the McDonald's Coke, do not exist, since § 2 (2) states immediately that all that is being made of is already subject to tax. It's already taxed. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U339	There was already one question on this subject, which I was able to answer, that this mixture, which is mixed with syrup, has already been taxed. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U340	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I sincerely apologize if I repeat any of the preceding questions. The discussion has been so long that not everything has been well monitored. I would like to ask you the same question that I put to the Minister at first reading. In fact, the explanatory memorandum to the bill states that this tax will hit people with lower incomes more painfully. It's black in white. At the time, the Minister spoke in his usual way about the fact that the coalition would in future support those people with lower incomes in some other way. How do you know that? Is that liver gonna hit them harder and that's a good and fair thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U341	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U342	If that's what the explanatory statement says, that's probably the way it is. People on higher incomes feed healthier, know what it is worth to eat and drink. They also have the means to do so. If coca cola or all drinks with sugar content are available and cheap, available in all respects, then the increase in their price may reduce their consumption. I once tried to figure out how much to buy a coke to compensate for the income tax-free minimum increase to 500 euros, and I got something 2,500 liters. Well, I don't know. Yeah, we pay everywhere, we give away something everywhere, and we get something in return. That's life. There's nothing to do here. If you want something, you have to give something back.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U343	Mr Gräzin, you raised your hand a few times. I don't know if you have a procedural question, or if you're going to perform the elements of a rhyme gymnastics. [[I. Gräzin's explanation of the floor.]] A microphone for Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U344	Thank you. I'm just going to be more specific. I mean, since it was said here that Igor Gräzin linked his question to the movement, I want to stress that it was not aggressive, but it was my friend's professor in the Black direction, and it was an educational, friendly and illustrative movement. Otherwise, the verbatim is misunderstood that Gräzin was moving, like he was messing around. It wasn't like that! Aadu and I have been sitting on the same council for 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U345	When we talk about the verbatim report, the President of the sitting adds that my comment was actually friendly. No further questions for you, honourable waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It became even more clear today that with this bill for the tax on the sweetened beverage, the coalition has reached a complete, substantive and legal impasse. The collapse of the bill in legal terms shows, even if only that it has not been possible to write even an application for exemptions and State aid to the European Commission within almost two months, even though, according to the explanatory memorandum, it had to proceed as soon as possible and at the latest in May. As a result of the incomplete preparation of the draft, it became clear only a few days before the second reading of the draft that milk-based drinks should also be taxed on the sweetened beverage tax. Whether the exemptions and State aid authorisations for the implementation of a tax which is incompatible with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union will still be obtained by the end of the year, the initiators themselves do not believe, I do have that impression. One aspect here is that European Union law does not allow discriminatory taxation, but Estonian consumers prefer 84% domestic yogurts. However, according to the marketing company Nielsen, the production of international producers on the soft drinks market is 95%, but in the European Union tax rules that directly or indirectly favour local producers are prohibited. The Minister of Finance, who has twice promised to send us the text of the State aid application as soon as possible in this large Chamber, has since been removed, but the desired text has not yet been seen by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The new Minister of Finance is talking about plans to increase VAT, but just like the rise in VAT, the tax on sweetened beverages is more a burden on people and families with lower incomes. The draft law on the tax on dessert drink definitely aims to fill the budget holes created by the coalition itself. There are no studies to show that the liver of a sweetened drink can reduce people's weight. As the new tax affects a group of products which, according to a study by the Institute for Health Development, account for only 5 to 8% in sugar-containing products and which account for only 1.5% of the calories consumed, the impact on healthy behaviour is still very small. The objective of protecting human health is unmistakable, as product types with high sugar content are excluded from the tax base. In fact, only a very small proportion of sugar and calorie consumption is taxed, which is why this tax is clearly discriminatory. Experience in other countries shows that the tax may slightly reduce consumption, but the impact on body weight and health is non-existent. If the sweetened beverage tax achieves a 20% reduction in consumption, this effect will be completely negligible. It is clear that a discriminatory tax will lead to significant administrative costs and bureaucracy and, above all, to non-productive jobs in the public sector. In order to set up an information system for the management of the tax alone, the tax office must declare a public procurement cost of EUR 1 million. The drafters also say that there is a risk that the whole system will not be completed by the time the law enters into force. However, fresh data from Ernst & Young's analysis is lost from the beverage sector All the border trade in alcohol will be further boosted by another argument. After all, there is a Danish experience. Before their government abolished the tax, border trade grew to a third of the market's size and thousands of people lost their jobs. In fact, producers have already reduced sugar content by more than 12% over the last 17 years. Voluntaryly, a further 10% reduction in sugar by 2020 has been set. So to change people's healthy behaviour, something more than a new tax is needed, and the purpose of this tax is only to fill a budget hole. In order to meet health objectives, it is necessary to improve people's nutrition awareness and encourage people to eat and move healthyly. The labelling of products also needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U347	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U348	The draft law on the tax on the desiccated beverage, which has no impact on human health behaviour and which brings about additional tax burden and new administrative costs, creates new bureaucracy, is contrary to European Union law and significantly undermines the competitiveness of Estonian businesses, and certainly cannot be supported by the Group of the Reform Party. We propose that we interrupt the processing of the bill for the sweetened beverage tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U349	The draft provisions will continue to be discussed by Monika Haukanõm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U350	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have been talking here for several hours today, and a public health argument has been very often heard. The protection of public health is an issue which must be taken very seriously. No one ever questioned the need to take steps to improve people's awareness so that everyone, starting with us and graduating with kindergarten children, knows how to make better and healthier choices and knows how to avoid self-destructive behaviour so that there is less obesity and obesity, other types of diabetes, ischaemic heart disease, stroke, etc. The draft that is now before us is largely reflected in the argument on the protection of public health, which is stated and emphasised there. The taxation of sugar in drinks has been made into a front for public health, but it is actually a bit hypocritical, because studies show that sweetened drinks are far from the most harmful source of added sugar than to talk about the eating habits of Estonian people. We are not talking today about sweets or bakery products, which are also a major health concern, as is actually the excessive consumption of sweetened beverages. However, as a result of these disputes, we have all realised that the impact of the draft is marginal and the health objective set is in no way achievable. This bill also has a fiscal objective, which has been reduced to a secondary level. But is it really secondary? Certainly not, because this is a measure that needs to be implemented by the Treasury in order to meet and cover the Coalition's promises without shame. It would be fair to say at once that we have come up with a tax because we need tens of millions to cover it and its cost. Many members of the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs and taxpayers are concerned about the fact that making such large-scale changes at this rate and with such a culture of involvement directly undermines the Estonian economy and the legal environment. The government is like a headless calf that changes the direction of the race unpredictablely and adds new tax objects as it passes. This time, between the first reading and the second reading, we got more milk-based drinks, such as buttermilk, cream, yogurt and kefir-based products. The new tax is part of a new tax avalanche designed to cover government over-exploited promises. Do we have the confidence that there will be no other harmful product to protect the people from? That is the same question I asked at the end of the first reading. And they found a new tax object! Why don't we find another way to look? But we will come back to the fiscal dimension. The sweet tax is intended to raise €15.18 million in the next few years with ease of play in the state budget. But today, unfortunately, there was no answer as to how much more milk products are being taxed. So x million euros, no one knows because it hasn't been calculated. Does the government really want non-alcoholic beverages to be bought in Latvia or underground? We are not talking about a few million euros of damage, but about the tens of millions that the country will miss. Tax increases... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U351	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U352	Tax increases create pressure on the secret market and cross-border trade in all sectors of activity. This pressure also arises in the case of the taxation of sweetened beverages. It is clear that border trade has become systematic, and the more groups of products we are adding here and now we are constantly adding them, which are encouraging it, the wider the problem as a whole, and the more difficult the socio-economic effects will be. Due to too much haste, as we have heard many times here today, there has not been enough analysis. The costs incurred by undertakings when implementing the law have not been analysed. They say they're not significant. Are these costs proportionate in view of the expected outcome? They can't be proportional until we know what they're going to be. All we know is that the IT solution costs about a million euros, and it doesn't matter, because we actually make 15 million, so what's 1 million still not? The development of a sweet drink tax is undoubtedly rushed. There has not been a development plan, all the important foundations of good lawmaking have been missed. As I have already said, there is no intention to develop, there is no impact analysis and the tax rates are actually derived from the budgetary expectations of the country. Estonia is a small market. The taxation of a number of product groups with new taxes will make life more expensive, especially for our consumers (mostly those affected by it) and reduce the international competitiveness and investment capacity of our producers. The Free Party cannot support the bill in any way. This bill is a bad example of bad legislation. The chairman of the committee responsible does not consider it necessary to familiarise himself with the matter, because he is not interested in it, and he does not ask for assistance from those committees that are interested in it, such as the Social Affairs Committee. In view of all of this, we propose that the draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U353	It was an interruption of reading in the eye, but it is the second reading of the bill. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U354	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good few MPs you're in the hall! [[Sighs deeply.]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Seriously, not just because a new liver is coming. This is, of course, the most complicated of all. But what can we say? IRL members are one in the hall. Congratulations, IRL, congratulations, Helir-Valdor Seeder! You failed! You wanted no sweets, but you did, with your votes, and you're coming. What do we get with this law? I agree with Monika. In such a hurry to bring the bill to the hall, it is still completely outrageous. I understand it's urgent, I understand there's some way they want to follow the principle that the six-month rule must be respected, but that's not the way it is. From a technical and linguistic point of view, and in terms of comprehension, this law does not suffer any criticism. We will then read this text together: 'A soft drink within the meaning of this Act is a beverage or preparation intended for the manufacture of a beverage (for example, in the form of syrup, granules or powder) containing sugar or sweetener, classified in the headings of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1821 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 294, 28.10.2016, p. 1 " That is what the whole text is like. I have already pointed out in my question that sugar has a new meaning. In the past, we knew that sugar as a concept is universally understood, and now we have learned that sugar is not sugar within the meaning of this law. "Supply within the meaning of this Act is the same as defined in Annex I to Council Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers (OJ L304/18, 22.11.2011, 1 to 46). ' It's sugar. Remember. If you want to know what sugar is, you will find out Annex 304/18 of the Official Journal of the European Union. We want to know what a sweetener is. However, sweetener is not the same, only sugar is the same:'sweetener within the meaning of this Act is a sweetener listed in Table 2 of Part B of Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1333/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on food additives (OJ L354/16, 31.12.2008, p. 16 ' Let's do the tax rate. The tax rates are from 5 grams, but if it is less than 5 grams, then sugar and a sweetened drink are not, if there is 4 grams of sugar, then there is no sweetened drink. Then we will know that there are provisions for implementing the tax, apart from § 6, which includes the tax rates. They show that, oh, not everything is exactly the same as from 1 January 2018, but are transitional provisions. From 1 January to 31 December 2018 there are one rate, then there are other rates, etc. One of my favorite provisions in this law is: 'The desiccated beverage which must be diluted or dissolved for consumption is taxed on the amount of the drink diluted or dissolved and its sugar and sweetener content, as recommended by the manufacturer. If a dilution or dilution recommendation is given in the form of a range, the sweetened beverage shall be taxed on the highest sugar or sweetener content in the range. In the absence of a recommendation for dilution or reconstitution, such a sweetened beverage shall be taxed on the basis that it is diluted or dissolved in ratio 1:6. ' All clear! Why am I reading these provisions? I'm sorry, I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U355	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U356	Both technically and essentially, this is a very bad law. I believe that if the second reading is completed and this bill is adopted as a law next Monday under the wise leadership of the coalition, we have already learned the worst law of the year, both in terms of content and quality. And now to the content. I think my colleague, Urve Tiidus, asked the waitress what is the year when people are healthier and weigh less. There was no answer. But I ask even more simply: if the objectives that are set by law are not achieved, who will resign? Is Ossinovski resigning? Since the waitress said that neither he nor Urve Tiidus would see the time, my eyes would see the one who would resign. There is already a risk that IT development will not be completed by 1 January. So, who's gonna resign on January 2nd? A finance minister who hasn't yet been appointed? Sorry, he's been on duty for two days! Or is Ossinovsky or the Prime Minister resigning? Who's gonna step down if they can't handle it? The risk is very high. The Tax and Customs Board itself considers that they need four months to make a procurement alone. Given that the summer months are also in the meantime, only two months remain for development. It's hard to tell if they're gonna make it or not. More like it looks suspicious today. Look at the statement we have on the table. This is not the original explanatory memorandum, but the second reading explanatory memorandum, where the original purpose is not stated. It is enough for me to read its fourth paragraph: 'The proposal not to adopt the draft as proposed has been made by the Estonian Association of Carous Drinks, the Estonian Food Association, the Estonian Food Industry Association, AS Farmi Milk Industries, AS Hello, AS Valio Eesti, OÜ Saaremaa Delifood, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Employers' Confederation. ' Today, the Chamber of Agriculture has joined this company. What more do you dear coalition ambassadors want? Who else is supposed to say that? If you do not want to listen to us here, or the opposition, then listen to the entrepreneurs! Listen to what they're saying to you: you're raping, you're raping, you're screwing up one particular area again. And who's responsible for that? Nobody, and you say everything was fine. It's not okay, it's not okay. With the new tax, Estonia will not be richer, in any way. Modesty recommendation: at least support the cessation of reading so that this draft can work, but the best thing would be to... The wolves have been invented. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U357	Next Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U358	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give up my speech because I am not used to the fact that the waitress is away from the hall when the members of the Riigikogu discuss this subject, which is very important to us. Although I have not read the writing in the working arrangements about how one of the rapporteurs should act, if there is not even an elementary courtesy to hear what the elected delegates have to say, and since the chairman of the committee is not presently in the Chamber, it is embarrassing and gives the best assessment of the procedure for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U359	Next up, Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U360	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Taking advantage of the fact that Stalnukhin is not here, I think we could accept a collective appeal so that it would be better if he never came back here, it would have been a good idea for him to leave. But since we've stayed here as intelligent people, we can discuss things between ourselves. So the thing is, there's a substance tour in nature that you eat and then you take the stomachs and... [[Makes a circular gesture.]] Well, that's it, the substances are moving. Now we've taken some moment out of this movement of substances, hop, we've cut it in half and said that on this point we're taxing, this chemical is going to go there, that's going there, that's going to go there, that's going there, that's going to go there, that's going there, that's going there, that's going there. (Shows with his hands how it happens.) So now we're taxing it. In fact, it's a normal, normal, logical tour of substances. In a chemical sense, this idea is completely insane. Here's the next question. Once again, it's a good thing that Stalnukhin is not here. Look, I'm going to list you all the things you can still tax. If he heard it, he'd tax it. But let's keep this between us. I quote one of my own earlier articles. It says here the taxes that imposed Peter I as additional taxes, well, VAT and real estate tax, they were already. [[He's flashing his finger.]] Now, Peter I's additional taxes, on which Stalnukhin has not yet come: the tax on billing, the tax on death, the tax on marriage, wheat tax, horse tax, horse tax, horse tax, the tax on other horses' instruments, the tax on wearing beard, the tax on shaving, the tax on moustache (even if paid for with a beard), the tax on houses in Moscow, the tax on bees everywhere outside Moscow, the tax on the purchase of beds, the tax on saunas, the tax on accommodation services (i.e. taxation of accommodation services, right), the tax on chimneys from every chimney, the levy on drinking water. Instead of alcohol duty, the tax on watermelon, or liquid products, was simply introduced, because drinking was officially prohibited, while alcohol duty was in force in another place. So, cucumber, coffin (death collectors noticed that there was something at the funeral that wasn't yet taxed, then the coffin went under it too). Acts: stubby, brush, chess board, linen, of course salt, chalk, fish liver oil, just fish, fishing when the activity was subject to a separate tax. As a Christian man, Peter I mildly punished the abbeys who were evading the tax: the monks were not killed, but were turned into soldiers. So, as they say, there are reserves. I will now ask the question: when will the liver of pork steak and blood sausage come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U361	Next on the floor, Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U362	Hanno Pevkur's speech made me want to make a small reply. This speech was perfectly good, and I feel that I agreed with almost all of it. I also think that the drafts that are going to be adopted quickly are not well prepared enough, and this procedure here is not good enough. But I wanted to remind you, isn't it not that every coalition that does what it wants to do does the same thing? I want to ask what this over-over-the-top coalition, led by the Reform Party, did in 2014, when you passed laws relating to the reform of working capacity, which we are now working on, in this house, the unemployment fund, the Social Insurance Agency, the disabled people and also the judicial system that are about to deal with these matters. If I were a non-political person, I would have wanted to cry on Hanno Pevkur's speech. Seriously! But while I'm in politics, I want to cry because of the whole legal culture you can see when laws are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U363	Lauri Swan next, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U364	After these speeches, it is difficult to add anything, but I still have something to say. The authors of the idea of the Sugar Tax have advocated that the introduction of a new tax will have an impact on people's health behaviour by directing producers to reduce the amount of sugar in sweetened beverages and by reducing the consumption of these drinks by buyers. The real aim, as we know, and as we can read from the previous debate, is instead to collect money from people in order to fulfil the expensive promises in the coalition agreement. Under the noble sign of health promotion, the country is being fattened up again, which is the real purpose of this draft. Even with the best of will, it is not possible to seriously talk about the positive effects of the sugar tax on human health if there is no analysis of this in the draft. Neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum refers to any analysis or study linking, for example, the harmfulness and overweight of sweetened beverages. Moreover, according to the National Institute for Health Development, sweetened drinks account for only 1.5% of the daily consumption of Estonians. Sweet drinks are the least important sweet products, accounting for only 8% of the choice of this group, being long below bakery products, sweetened dairy products and, for example, candy chocolates, which have a significant impact on human health more than sweet drinks. However, the draft does not touch on solid sweets. Sugar is sugar, and excessive consumption is harmful in any case. When I asked Sven Sester, the customs Minister of Finance in the Riigikogu, why is it that, in liquid form, for example, Isostar's sports drink will cost more than powder in the future, he could not answer me. When I mix the powder with water at home, I get the same drink as when I buy liquid at the store. Now the coalition has improved itself, and the powders have been included in this bill, but this initial attitude has shown that, in fact, the priority is not changing people's health behaviour, but still money, money, money. In the light of the experience of other countries, people will start to consume more alternative, non-taxed products in the event of additional taxation of a particular product group, increasing border and smuggling and, of course, adding to the cost of tax administration. The introduction of additional and unexpected taxes reduces the attractiveness of the economic environment in the eyes of investors, both local and foreign. The emergence of these effects has been thoroughly demonstrated in a study commissioned by the European Commission. However, the government has not prepared any analyses to measure the economic impact of the sugar tax, as I have already said. The main thing is that none of the countries where the sweet tax has been applied has seen a positive impact on people's weight. In 2014, Denmark decided to waive the inefficient sweet tax from the 1930s for these reasons. Since there is still no European Commission authorisation to exempt natural juices, for example, health products are also becoming more expensive, yet this should not be an objective. It is very likely that the European Commission will not allow this exception at all, as we can read from today's debate. Finland also applied for a similar derogation to cookies in addition to chocolate, but they did not get it. Why should we assume or seemingly believe that we will be allowed to do so? This proves once again that the government is hoping to do something, but it turns out quite the opposite. The proposed tax amendment also has serious legal shortcomings, which have already been highlighted. The sweet tax constitutes an extremely disproportionate violation of fundamental rights as it violates producers' freedom to conduct business and the right to equal treatment. Moreover, good legislative practice has been ignored in the urgent procedure of the draft law. The government has justified this by the urgency of the law. However, what is so urgent is not stated in the explanatory memorandum. The proposed tax also runs counter to EU law as other products with high sugar content are not expected to be taxed. It would therefore be prohibited to grant State aid if the tax were introduced. If public health were actually to be improved, taxes would not be mentioned, but real steps would be taken to improve people's health behaviour. In my opinion, information and, above all, home example should be started, explaining to the child the importance of regular healthy eating, active exercise and adequate rest. There is no more important than a parent's role as an example. Next thing you know, it's important school. In the institutions of education, I think we could clean up unhealthy drinks and meals from the buffet. If the school is a parenting institution, let it be a healthy diet. Unfortunately, the average youth is becoming more and more physically passive. In my opinion, therefore, the number of hours of physical education should be increased to at least three hours a week in order to give young people real motivation to move more. The broader concept of mobility education proposed by the Ministry of Education and Research, which provides for some lessons to take place when moving in nature, is a step in the right direction if done right. Surely, though, this should not mean that already few physical education classes will be replaced by hiking in the forest in the context of other substances. I believe that mobility education, or integration of movement with other subjects such as biology, science or physics, must only be a supporting activity, apart from physical education. The exercise course must certainly not replace the physical education class. Of course, promoting public health should not be limited to activities at school and at home. Adults also need to be told what benefits come from a healthy lifestyle and how important it is to be healthy. Let's talk about things the way they are. A sugar levy in this form is necessary in particular to enable the State to cover its planned costs. People with taxes are not treated, there are other methods. These methods need to be given much greater emphasis by the government in the future if the dreams of better health of people in the draft explanatory memorandum are to be actually realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U365	Arto Aas next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U366	Honourable Riigikogu! Of course, I don't like this bill. As a liberal, I do not think that the state is always smarter than private individuals. This bill is another step towards the state of babysitting, and if you listen to these arguments, it is clear that it is a poorly justified step. Just how badly this bill has been prepared and protected in this room, I was moved to come here. Indeed, as Mr Stalnukhin demonstrated here today as Chairman of the Monetary Committee, I do not remember the working hours of the two Riigikogu formations. When the change of government last November and the first rapid tax changes were made during the winter months, you could still believe that you did not know things, that the government was quick and that the government had new plans. But if today, six months later, the bill is dealt with in this way, it is embarrassing and does not honor the Riigikogu. I don't understand why Mr. Stalnukhin is even coming here to defend this bill if he doesn't want to know the answers. Could have been sent here by another member of the committee who would have had the time and will to familiarise himself with the details in order to try to persuade the other members of the Riigikogu, or at least out of respect for the Riigikogu as an institution, to give answers that are not, in fact, very complicated. I Googled and got some answers: some drinks are getting 65% more expensive and a certain increase in the price level is likely to come. I didn't ask any spiteful questions or anything very specific. We are here in other committees of the Riigikogu, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Development of State Reform, discussing proposals on how to increase the authority and role of the Riigikogu. We are discussing whether we need additional resources for assistants or research and how to create added value in legislation, so that it is credible and the centre of gravity of legislation is not so much inclined towards the government. We're making up new rules here. What for? We have all the tools available to deal with the impact assessment and to deal with the drafts within a reasonable time. Why do we even need to figure out some artificial new tools? It's all about political culture. If you haven't been able to prepare an elementary bill in six months, something's really wrong. It's sad, actually. Mr Stalnukhin reminded me of his lecturers here. If I remind you of my college time, I wouldn't have dared to go to the exam so prepared. Of course, the second reading of this draft is likely to be stopped by raw force today, but it is not an honor. I could have worked harder. There is nothing to do with good lawmaking practice or common positive traditions here. Yes, mistakes have been made in the past, but later they have tried to avoid them. Certain agreements have been concluded on what time the drafts will be prepared, how they will be dealt with and who will be involved. We have good regulatory practice. There's nothing left of it now, even though there was time now, there was six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U367	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We are going to examine the amendments. Twenty-four amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U368	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U369	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 33 votes in favour and 54 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U370	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U371	Dear Riigikogu, are we ready to vote? Does anyone have any objections? I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 55 were against. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U372	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U373	Can we go to the vote? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Dear Riigikogu, please take a stand and vote! 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U374	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U375	Can we go to the vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U376	The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U377	Can we go to the vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U378	The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U379	I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 votes in favour and 21 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Dear Riigikogu, the 16th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U380	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U381	Ladies and gentlemen, while realising your excitement that Tallink ships will be able to buy sweetened drinks without tax in the future, I would ask you to listen to your colleagues. Please, Maris Lauri, would you repeat that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U382	Yeah. I would like to vote on Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U383	I shall put the amendment to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 34 votes in favour and 55 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U384	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U385	I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. There were 34 votes in favour and 56 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U386	On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal, inspired by opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U387	Let us put this proposal to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was for 54 and against 35 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was supported. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U388	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U389	I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 56 were against. The amendment was not supported. The 21st amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U390	Thank you. I would like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U391	I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 56 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22 has been tabled by Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission is to take this into account in substance. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is not to take it into account. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U392	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U393	I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee is to leave it to account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 56 were against. The proposal was not supported. The last amendment, the 24th amendment, has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is to leave it in mind. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U394	Thank you. The Reform Party Group would also like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U395	Let us put this amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 24 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote. There were 34 votes in favour and 54 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed to stop the second reading of draft 457, but the Riigikogu Board has received a proposal from the Reform Party Group and the Estonian Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 457 and we will put... Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U396	Yeah, thanks! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Given the problem of this bill and everything else, we have a sincere desire that the members of the coalition think seriously about this bill and buy themselves another tax-free cocoa at the bar. However, since we want to discuss this with them as well and still to reach the conclusion that the decision to interrupt second reading of this draft, which we have requested with the Free Party, would have been done meaningfully, we ask for a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U397	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U398	Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft proposal of the Reform Party Group and the Free Party Group 457... [[???Hüüded saalist: 'Mikrofon!', 'Ei kuule enam hästi!'???]] Thank you for that! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group and the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of 457. Please take a stand and vote. 35 voted in favour of the proposal and 53 members of the Riigikogu were against. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 457 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U399	Today's next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation by the committee of the Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U400	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] On the previous agenda, there was talk of a mysterious half-year, during which we need to familiarise ourselves with the questions. I would like to begin by stating that this draft was launched on 4 May and was accepted on 8 May. It's a month. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U401	Ladies and gentlemen, Sorry, waitress! Unfortunately, the noise in the hall is so loud that the waitress is not heard. I ask my colleagues to have their talks outside the hall or to give them up! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U402	The first reading took place on 17 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 31 May. After that, there were five other Commission meetings on the agenda. 13 amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments: three amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and ten amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft five times after its first reading. The Commission, of course, asked stakeholders for opinions on the draft. They were presented by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Estonian Banking Association and the non-profit association that brings together Estonian members of the International Tax Law Association. The Committee on Finance agreed a meeting with the interest groups on 8 June, but you will remember that on 8 June there was suddenly a motion of distrust and an extension of the session. If we had known that only one question would be asked to the Minister, not 90, as has been the case during the debate on censures, then we would not have informed the interest groups that the Commission meeting would not be held. But that's what happened. Since there was no desire to keep people so respectable in the corridors for hours, we canceled this meeting. The following week, we took turns proposing Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, but none of these days were possible for interest groups to attend the meeting. However, the stakeholders submitted their proposals and the Commission examined the issues raised together with the specialists of the Ministry of Finance. Stakeholders' calls concerned the quality of tax legislation, the introduction of a so-called 'patent income tax', the advance income tax on credit institutions, the price of special incentives for passenger cars, the registration of a traffic register if the passenger car is used solely for the purposes of the work, and the employer's expenditure on the transport and accommodation of workers. The most numerous questions were raised and complaints were made about a pledge tax, which was proposed by the Ministry of Finance to be excluded from the draft. I must remind you that during this period there was an exchange of leadership between a coalition party and the coalition agreement went back to review. So we put this draft on the agenda, a couple of times the specialists from the Ministry of Finance came and gave us an opinion on one question or another, but we did not have any idea how the coalition agreement would be amended. However, in the end, the proposals resulting from the amendment of the coalition agreement came. That's when they came in with the Ministry of Finance, and there's eight of them. Amendment 1 allows spouses to make certain deductions jointly for tax purposes. Amendment 2 introduces a technical correction in the text of the law due to the loss of the allowance for low-wage earners. Amendment 4 is technical, specifying the location of the provision to be included in the law. Amendment 5 allows the employer to carry workers over 50 km away from the place of residence and the place of work on a vehicle with at least eight seats alongside the bus, without a special incentive charge. This amendment was proposed by the Chamber of Commerce. Amendment 7 deletes the introduction of a so-called 'patent income tax' in the draft text, which was the desire of most stakeholders, instead laying down a mechanism for the identification and definition of hidden profit allocations. This takes into account the proposals made by the Chamber of Commerce and the Banking Association. As a result, part of the amendment tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group has been taken into account, in memory it was No 10, and amendments 8, 9, 11 and 12 submitted separately by the Estonian Reform Party Group. Amendment 19 is technical and provides wordingual clarification. Amendment 20 states that when the vehicle database states that the company's vehicle is used exclusively for business travel, the state fee is not paid. This was proposed by the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. Amendment 21 clarifies the date of entry into force of some of the provisions. This will be done to ensure that the President has sufficient time to take his decision, but the benefits will apply retroactively from 1 July. The Commission did not consider it necessary to support Amendments 3 and 13 to 18 aimed at excluding the regulation of advances to credit institutions from the draft. The majority of the Commission supported the draft on this issue as initiated. Similarly, the Commission did not consider it justified to significantly reduce the price of the special benefit of using a work car for private purposes (amendment 6) since the average price of the special benefit calculated by the rates proposed in the draft is already below the average value of the benefit as estimated by the specialists of the Ministry of Finance. Technical and linguistic clarifications have also been made in the text of the draft act. The Commission's proposal was to send a draft law to the Chamber today, 14 June and to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U403	Thank you. There are many questions for the rapporteur. First Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U404	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns the joint declarations and their restoration. As Chairman of Helir-Valdor Seeder IRL, he promised that the possibility of submitting joint declarations would be restored. The opening of the coalition agreement also brought this message to the public in this form. According to this draft, it is possible to deduct EUR 180 instead of making full deductions. On the proposal of the Social Democrats yesterday, the draft introduced such a restriction that the income of the spouses should not exceed EUR 50400. Why, then, did the coalition abandon the restoration of joint declarations in the form that this opportunity was last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U405	Thank you. We're heading back to the same area. You're asking for the opinion of the coalition, I'm giving you the information that was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The fact that the spouse's income is taken into account and based on EUR 180 does not worsen the situation. It's a principle, but it doesn't give us any advantage. The income tax-free minimum will be EUR 500 from next year, one spouse will retain it and the other will count EUR 180. Why did the coalition take this decision in such a form? I did not participate in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U406	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U407	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! It is perhaps fair to note, in the interest of the Stanogram, that our committee did not deal with this draft five times, not because we were somehow incompetent or because someone wanted to delay the procedure, but because the coalition's views changed day after day and new texts were brought before us. I have really been involved in these discussions and I have been familiar with them, but I would also ask you to explain to the big hall and the verbatim why the coalition chose the banking sector to restore corporate tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U408	Thank you. We talked about this in the Commission and we also asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance about it. The answer sounded very interesting to me. It was said that the world is going through relatively powerful changes, that to some extent the economic system is changing and that these approaches are also changing. It was such a macroeconomic response, I would say, in the Commission. However, I do not know how familiar you are with how we have the situation with these loans in the first reading, but when I heard about the information that there were 800 million loans in 2015 and it only concerned the money going abroad, I was shocked because a certain amount of this, of course, means that dividends were removed in hidden form. Yes, this reasoning, as I remember it, was above all that the economic model changed to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U409	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U410	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is also about your hidden income tax escape through loans. However, the reality has been different; this cannot be an absolute accusation. We will take the year before when Swedbank paid out a dividend of EUR 100 million in corporate income tax alone. I strongly support the fact that you have considered it right and necessary to reduce the rate of income tax on regularly paid distributions to 14%. But why are you still messing with the loans now and starting looking again for some administrative measures to get involved in this activity? I think that this 14% instead of 20% could be enough for companies to no longer use the distribution of profits through loans. We could wait to see how this regulation works. A 6% reduction could be a considerable incentive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U411	Thank you. I also think that this is a very good incentive. For me, the most authoritative institutes in the Republic of Estonia are the Tax and Customs Board and the National Audit Office, both for different reasons. But if the tax authority, through its ministry, makes one or another proposal so that it can improve its work, then I take it very seriously. When we spoke with the people of the Ministry of Finance, I thought it sounded like it was one of the tools that the tax authorities needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U412	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U413	Thank you. I have a question about the new tax regime for credit institutions. After this law enters into force, I imagine so, and so it probably is, the credit institution will pay dividends as much as it makes profits in the current year, that is normal, and the profits earned will be offset by an advance payment. But what about the profits that have been made in previous years? To sum up all commercial banks, this means hundreds of millions of euros that have not yet been paid out as a dividend. What about the profits?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U414	I thought I could find this place in law quickly, but probably not. If we are talking about credit institutions, they do not have any additional checks on the loan, it would be strange, they are residents of Estonia or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U415	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U416	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You are today, for the second time in this big hall, defending a bill that has a very poor impact analysis and which significantly worsens our tax environment. I believe that you are a person who cares about Parliament's reputation and wants to restore Parliament's influence. Why are you doing this here, by order of the coalition or by personal conviction? Why are you here defending poorly prepared draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U417	Thank you. I am not sure that this is the correct assessment that this bill is poorly prepared. Rather, of course, it is prepared at an enormous rate. I was talking about the time of the proceedings: the draft was adopted on 8 June and today there is already a second reading, negotiations were held in the meantime, etc. But clearly, I am doing this for the same reason that I pointed out in response to you both during the debate on the previous item and a few weeks ago. I know how Estonia lives, not just Tallinn. I come from where the average income is 800 euros, even slightly below that. I understand that an increase in the minimum income tax rate to EUR 500 is one of the ways that really helps people. It has never been done so far. Something needs to be sacrificed for this, and it is always in the form of compromise. Yes, you can talk about Mr Seeder, but it was actually decided, and that was agreed by the Coalition Council. However, in the case of the spouses, the additional tax-free income was included in the law and the so-called 'patent income tax' was withdrawn from it. So I wouldn't say that the law is something that cannot be protected. It's an objective necessity. I say once again: I am working to get people to have more oxygen to breathe, about 700 euros, which the people in my region, over 90% of them, will get more in the next year. I am prepared for many compromises on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U418	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U419	Thank you. Mr. Stalnukhin, just in case, the money you're fighting for is being taken back with the other hand. But as a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have to say that it has been such a forward and backward draft, the outcome of which I do not yet perceive. I can't sense exactly what was left of it and what was taken out of it. Would you say these major changes in your presentation you didn't tell them what was done in law compared to what was originally planned? I think for a verbogram, it'd be nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U420	Thank you. The Act was supplemented by the same additional provision on collective deductions of spouses for income tax purposes and the so-called 'patent income tax' was removed. These are the biggest and most politically important changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U421	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U422	Thank you. I come back to the question put by my colleague, Mr Ammas. I still didn't quite understand why banks would have such a special regime. This vague reasoning that you have raised, my logic, in no way combines. I can't even figure out how to derive it. Maybe you can explain in more detail why.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U423	I mean, people have different logic, and that's normal. It's a normal thing. I can't explain it any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U424	Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U425	Thank you. I have to ask my question again, because the answer was completely confused. I have a specific question about the new regime for the taxation of bank dividends. Under the new regime, banks will pay advance income tax, which will be offset against dividend income tax. The banks are likely to pay the dividend as much as they earn annual profits in the future. Well, that makes sense. My question is: what will happen to the earlier profits made by the banks, and it will be in hundreds of millions if it is not distributed as a dividend? What about it? Are these hundreds of millions taxed or not? If taxed, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U426	§ 471 "Financial contributions of a credit institution' of the Act applies from the entry into force of the Act. The theoretical hundreds of millions you're talking about are probably not taking much action.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U427	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U428	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Let me get this straight. Nobody has to fill out a driving log, or are there exceptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U429	Thank you. You don't have to keep your diary anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U430	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U431	Thank you. As the leading monetary politician in Estonia, could you tell me how you now look at the budget? Relaxed rules have been introduced as much as possible, and tax returns are now taking place. The changes you responded to earlier will also increase the budget gap. The question is already whether this legal border can be respected. Probably not. What are the tax waivers that will eventually remain in force? What's the picture like? I am also thinking of the package tax, the declarations, the waiver of the pledge tax. It is, in itself, an interesting practice, such a back and forth movement. But what's the cost of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U432	Jürgen, of course I'm not a leading finance specialist, that's clear, and you know it. During the debate on the previous question in this Chamber, our conversation showed that I am not even a politician. Really, yes, I'm not a politician, I'm reacting to you as people who sincerely want to know something, and only later can I reprimand my colleagues that I'm taking it to heart and not doing such a circus here, that one minister on Facebook has 20 million planned and lemonade secret trades and all kinds of saccharins and all that stuff. But that's it. We're in the Commission, Jürgen, you remember asking the Ministry of Finance to send us this Excel chart showing the effects that will arise. Unfortunately, it wasn't until five minutes before two, and I got it when I was in this room. To be honest, I'm not satisfied with the overview they've given here. It's not perfect. You don't have that table? The Ministry sent us these figures. The additional tax-free income of the spouse results in a minus of EUR 3.4 million, including the effect of replacing the deposit income tax with softer measures, the effect of 13.5 million, the tax-free withdrawal of profits from the limitation of the loan, and the limitation of the loss of profits by softer measures + 34 million, which together gives rise to the effect of this deposit income tax. However, if the spouse's additional tax-free income remains the same in the coming years, it is the result of an analysis that there will be around 3.4 million euros, then the replacement of the pledge tax next year with softer measures will result in 11.5 million euros minus in 2019, and 14.5 million in both 2020 and 2021. That means, yes, there is a certain amount of deficit and there is a need to think about how to cover it, but I still do not agree to call it a hole. You'll understand that, too. It is enough for the coalition to abandon a programme at a certain point, whether it is investment in repair, education or health support. All of this can theoretically be abandoned, and there's no such thing as a deficit or a hole. The question is that we need to find something to replace it. In fact, we have this opportunity until the end of December. Hopefully we won't have the urgent things we had here in May and June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U433	Andres Ammas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U434	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! A quarter of an hour ago, unfortunately, we were talking about each other. Since Maris Lauri also asked the same question and did not receive an answer, I will come back to the subject. I didn't ask you about the hidden profits, I asked you about the credit institution's advance payments. Why the banking sector, but why not, I don't know, the energy sector, transit, industry or something else? Why has banking been chosen? I do not know if I was not present at the committee at the time, but I do not really remember whether it was mentioned in the committee and what the protocol says. How did the initiator justify this choice of banking sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U435	Thank you, Andres! I regret at the moment that I myself did not ask the specialists of the Ministry of Finance in the Commission. If there are any suggestions, they make sense, and you keep thinking about what they might have meant by it. Maybe they meant that banking has been in some kind of advantage, or that banking is working precisely because there is quite a few domestic capital, etc. You were at all the meetings of the committee. This question, unfortunately, was not raised there. Right now, I'm really sorry about that. Just out of curiosity, it's worth asking, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U436	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U437	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A few answers ago, you agreed to the fact that this cluster bill has been dealt with quickly and very sloppyly, so that it could have been done better and that it violates the Riigikogu's reputation. But you are prepared to defend this bill so that your electorate can quickly receive an income tax exemption of EUR 500. Do you have any messages for entrepreneurs, for those who actually bring tax money to the state budget, in the case of this poorly and quickly processed bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U438	This isn't my personal interview, but I'll answer you. Yes, I agree that this bill was processed quickly. But was it handled badly? This assessment can only be made, for example, by the court instance, if this matter is sued and the court understands the law, the Chancellor of Justice can give this assessment, the President of the Republic of Estonia may, after all, give an opinion if he declares that there is something to be corrected in the law before it is announced, or he says that the law should be discussed again at all. There are quite a few of these possibilities. They were not used by anyone, and this indirectly shows that the draft was not poorly dealt with. Yes, I understand you have no other way out. It's about the same as when an interview asks a person how often he beats his mother. This is a typical example if nothing can be answered. You're gonna answer that rarely, or you're gonna argue. You, too, have made a claim that has not actually been proved, and I must reject it. I have no wish to deal with this. Yes, it was an urgent draft and we did this work quickly, but it was not badly done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U439	Maris Lauri, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U440	Thank you. Good waitress! At the relatively last moment, a change was introduced in this draft, which will tax companies' loans. Suddenly you open up the settings, why exactly like this and how are these parameters selected?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U441	Thank you. Would you not clarify what the amendment is? Do you mean § 502? [[Shout from the hall.]] The seventh amendment brings together a total of nine paragraphs. If I'm going to explain everyone to you, then... But I believe in Remo, who said it was this tax on hidden profit distributions. Is that right? Paragraph 502 specifies the procedure for taxing hidden profit distributions. This is a tax evasion clause, which states that the Tax and Customs Board may tax a loan granted to a shareholder, shareholder or member with income tax if the circumstances of the transaction indicate that there is a profit allocation in nature. This measure was proposed by the Ministry of Finance in my view through the most authoritative institution, the Tax and Customs Board. If they see the need for such a provision, I agree with them. In any case, the Tax and Customs Board is the best in the Baltic countries in the area of tax collection. It's hard to wait for the result we were once introduced. If these specialists are asking for a legal provision, we, of course, should agree to it in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U442	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U443	Thank you. Good waitress! It has been good practice in Parliament to legislate to involve interest groups affected by a draft law. I know that when you dealt with this bill, you did not manage to find time in the committee to listen to the interest groups. Is it becoming the new normality of the current coalition, that things that are still undecided in the Commission are not being brought to the big hall, that interest groups are not being listened to, that the rapporteur of the commission does not answer the questions and that he takes a condescending view of the questioners? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U444	Thank you, Lauri! I can swear to you that as far as I am now, I have almost never met interest groups working here in the Riigikogu. However, these have been meetings with quite a number of participants, sometimes involving five or six interest groups. Once again, it was an accident at work, it was a curse, because the agreed time coincided with the discussion of a motion of mistrust. If you had told me in advance that you wouldn't be asking, I would have been easier on myself, wouldn't you? We would have let the guests drink coffee, and already at 4:30 we would have started this job, by the time we had finished everything here. As for the fact that, next week, these people were once on the road, once at a conference, or so on, this will happen. That's right. Our staff manager, Tiina, went to a lot of trouble to agree on this, offered new options every day, but it didn't work out what to do. But this, of course, is not a practice, it was a purely professional accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U445	Remo Holsmer, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U446	Thank you. All these tax measures that have been submitted to the Riigikogu have received entirely rare criticism from entrepreneurs, so as not to say unprecedented levels of criticism. Over 25 business organisations have approached the Riigikogu. There's never been such a thing in this form or extent before. Several companies' estimates of government tax and budgetary policies begin with the words 'destructive', 'rapsive', 'killing', etc. No positive sign can be read from anywhere. What would you say to Estonian entrepreneurs? I am thinking of all these tax changes, tax increases and the relaxation of budgetary rules. How do you maintain and improve the Estonian business environment in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U447	We're trying to find some sort of balance. I've seen this appeal and this list. I understand people's resentment, but there's more than one side of society. We need to find a common goal and work towards it. In my opinion, this common goal is a solidarity-based, socially peaceful, well-insured Estonia. In my opinion, the model that could be taken as a basis is Sweden. Cooperation with businesses is necessary here, whatever it takes. At first, all efforts have gone as good as one. I'm not the kind of economic man I can really influence you here, but that's the kind of feeling. We are now looking for a way to make Estonia aware of one deep, forward-looking idea that we need to help each other. There's no other choice here. There used to be a case in Narva. I was asked not to talk for a long time, but I still want to tell you about it. Do you remember a Swedish banker like Bo Kragh? In 1994, he came to Narva and then had a meeting with Ida-Viru entrepreneurs. He explained how he sees Estonia's economic model and so on. That's not what I'm talking about right now. This meeting took place in Narva, on the second floor of Rondeel's cafe. It was very interesting. We talked for two hours. After we hosted guests, we brought them to the third floor where the tables were set. I had paid quite a lot of money for the guests to eat properly, but then I suddenly saw potatoes in uniform on the table. Everyone had a potato, a knife, and a fork in a uniform on a plate. Then came Mart, then Rondeel's tenant, a restorer who solemnly announced that in the late 1980s it was said that they would be willing to eat potato peel in order to be free. It wasn't about potato peels, it was about having a common goal, it could suffer. We were in solidarity at the time. After, of course, the food was brought and the intimidation stopped. Bo Kragh was the only one who ate his potato with the peel, he had such an upbringing. I don't know if you understood the point. But I have no enemies anywhere, not among entrepreneurs or in any organization. We agree to take account of their needs, but they sometimes need to take account of the needs of society. It's a no-will way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U448	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U449	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned to a good colleague that there is no right to make such an assessment that the procedure was bad. I think every member of the Riigikogu has that right. This right exists precisely on the basis of his historical experience and knowledge of practice during previous proceedings, which gives an opportunity to say how the procedure could be more reasonable. But I still have not received an answer from you or the former Minister of Finance why you went to weaken the family institution, and that is precisely through this joint declaration. Why didn't you treat family members, joint declarers as equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U450	Thank you. Urmas, I think I've said three times this evening that everyone has the right to have an opinion. I'm not putting my opinion in anyone's head, I admit you may have your own judgment. I have assessed this process because there are institutions that are legally entitled to reproach us. They have not done them; they must also bear that in mind when evaluating them. As far as the joint declaration and family values are concerned, I believe that in this vastly long line of things that hold the family together, the joint declaration is one of the last. I don't see how that's gonna be any other way. I'm sorry about the family held together by the joint declaration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U451	Krista Aru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U452	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You mentioned that entrepreneurs must understand the needs of society and that they must make reasonable decisions for the needs of society themselves and accept such decisions. Has the Commission discussed or discussed the proposal of a coalition or government during the discussion of their tax bill, so that there is a need to boost and help the business environment, precisely in order to make money available from business into the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U453	Thank you. There's a coalition agreement. It's awfully long and there's a separate part about what we're planning to support entrepreneurship. After all, everything we do with infrastructure investments, for example, is one of the supporting measures. There's a lot of these things. I don't consider this claim justified. After all, everyone realizes that everything starts with a person who, in the first stage, makes a job for himself and then starts creating jobs for other people. But there must be a balance sheet somewhere between his interests and the interests of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U454	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U455	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have taken relatively passively the Chancellor of Justice's remarks. We hope that the court will finally make the right decision. But do I get it right that these decisions and this solution are your law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U456	Thank you. I understand we're talking about something that can't be reversed, that is, judgment or something like that. [[???U. Kruuse saalist: 'Kas ma tohin täpsustada?'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U457	However, there is no provision for the possibility of asking further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U458	I may not have understood the question very precisely, but I will say that we have taken this matter very carefully and, for example, in the debate on the next item, I will have the opportunity to talk about it. If the Chancellor of Justice makes any proposals and if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, from whom we have asked, what they think, and these proposals agree, we will not even wait for a judgment, but we will amend these provisions. I am very respectful of those who have the right to correct us when I understand that they are not doing this maliciously, but are providing that it should contribute to the legislative process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U459	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. First call chair, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U460	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We started working on this bill with the debate in the Riigikogu, whether or not it qualifies as a cluster bill. As we have repeatedly said, the substance of the amendments must be considered to be more important than the titles of the draft itself and of the laws being amended. This interpretation was also provided by the Constitutional Committee of the previous Riigikogu. If the changes have one objective, of course, the draft cannot be considered a cluster bill. Changes to this draft have been agreed in the Government Union on the one hand to introduce new taxes in order to obtain revenue for the budget. I am thinking of a mortgage tax, which has now been transformed into a new form, but also an advance payment by banks, a kilowatt-based tax on companies' cars, etc. On the other hand, this draft has introduced a change in the form of a more favourable taxation of participation options, which is not aimed at increasing the revenue of the state budget, but at a more favourable business environment. It is quite clear that, for the government, the problem of this draft or the underlying idea is that a large budget deficit needs to be dealt with. As regulations in different fields have been incorporated into a single draft, the MPs have been deprived of the opportunity to be in favour or against a specific proposal. For example, to support more favourable taxation of options, at the same time, greater taxation of banks or additional car taxation must also be supported. When the new leader of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Helir-Valdor Seeder, went to the government desk a few weeks ago to open a coalition agreement and talk about tax changes, it was his desire to restore the possibility of submitting joint declarations and to abolish the package excise duty and the system of withholding tax initiated by the government. It is now clear that none of these objectives were realised. There will be no return to joint declarations as of now. The enforcement of the bill on excise duties on packaging has been postponed, it has been put on hold nicely and when it will be adopted, it will perhaps become clear towards the autumn. The PIT system was replaced at the last minute by the obligation of the taxpayer to demonstrate whether the loan granted is a loan or a profit removal under that sign. We'll see how it works. In any case, the Group of the Reform Party also proposed the cancellation of the original version. The government's withdrawal of this initial version is certainly one of the few positive things about this draft. When the debate on the previous item ended by the end of the second reading of the bill on the tax on sweetened beverages, it essentially decided to make it sweeter. If, in the next debate on the item on the agenda, it is decided to waive the rule of the balance of the state budget, IRL will take the decision that this rule, which was intended to be incorporated into the Constitution a few years ago, has been finally abandoned. The promising journey of the Chairman of the IRL, which aimed to reverse tax and budgetary policy to the right course, has ended without any success. I'll come back to those parts of the bill that the Reform Party supports. We support more favourable taxation of participation options. This amendment was prepared as early as last year under our leadership. This will motivate employees to contribute more to the company's development and to become more involved with the company. We also support the lower rate of 14% for the company's regular profit distributions provided for in the draft. As stated at the outset, this law affects many people, businesses and sectors. In our opinion, not all these changes should be dealt with at the same time. We support certain proposals, but do not support the draft as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U461	Andres Ammas next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U462	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The main emotion that our group has in the process of dealing with this draft, and which we have been sad about when discussing between ourselves, is uncertainty. When we were convinced, on the previous draft before us, that it was hopeless, we did not even propose amendments to the draft law on the tax on sweetened beverages, because we did not see the slightest point in this; it was, in our view, a completely stillborn initiative, it is fair to say that there is something in this draft law on income tax. I agree with Remo here right now. The same things that the Reform Party likes here, we like. I'll add a loss of driving journals. There's a few little positive things here that you can recognize. But we have not received an answer to the fundamental question of why, at the same time, such an insane rabbiation and haste. No one has been able to answer that question. The chairman of the committee admitted honestly that it had been dealt with five times in the committee. Five times. This is not because someone was stubborn, it would have been destructive or time-consuming, but because a new text was brought before us again and again, which had to be discussed all over again. Even a representative of the Commission came to the aid of the initiators and ministry officials. My colleague, Priit Sibul, tried to find a point there, I would say, a more polite, less offensive wording for entrepreneurs. The chairman of the committee has done a proper job on the committee, which you would not think of on the basis of the request that he has received today in this Chamber. But what's the rush? Even if we understood the coalition's desire to process all this before 1 July, we still have time. I'm sorry, but we can work after Midsummer. We're not babies here, we need to rest forever. We'll come back together and talk. But in such a way that the evening will be given a new text... Of course, yes, I can read this text, we all can, we can think about it, but let us admit to ourselves that we do not and do not need to have the competence to analyse all the nuances that come with this possible text option immediately. We would like to ask experts for advice, we would like to discuss with lawyers and businesses what these possible effects are and what will actually happen. We weren't given time for this. I'm sorry if I hurt anyone, but sometimes I feel like it was done on purpose. This bill is deliberately so complicated. The honourable colleague Jürgen Ligi here also admitted that he does not perceive what is actually contained in it and what has changed. Well, if the former finance minister doesn't sense it, how are we supposed to do it? What's impossible, that's impossible. They just don't do that. This is disrespectful to the members of the Riigikogu; it is even impertinent. There are really strange things that we can't sign. It seems to us, too, a bit Phariseeic to bring the possibility of joint declaration, as in, but not to the full. I don't understand how the rest of the coalition partners agreed so easily with the socialists that they wanted to put a ceiling on this declaration. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U463	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U464	I understand that left-wing parties have the envy of those who do a little better in their genes. But it doesn't make any sense. It is incomprehensible and in vain to "strengthen your back" and to demonstrate your view of the weather because of this EUR 200000. I understand that left-wing parties really want to use Mart Laari's already classic expression But why does the IRL go along with it? He'll probably do it in shame, why else wouldn't there be any of them here today? Why have those who are at least the part marked by the letter I in this acronym forgotten the principle of not playing with taxes? It's hard to understand what's forcing them into such humiliation. The arguments why we do not want to support this draft in this form have already sounded today in the form of questions and answers. We are not sure whether the wording that replaces the provisions of the system of withholding tax is now such that it honestly serves its purpose to combat crooks and crooks and to protect honest entrepreneurs. We are not satisfied with this wording of the common declaration provisions. We do not understand why the banking sector has been chosen as a pioneer in the recovery of corporate tax. We do not understand all of this, and that is why we propose that this debate be interrupted here and that it be further deepened in the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U465	Next, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U466	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I join the previous speakers who spoke about the fact that the procedure of this draft does not suffer any criticism. I am quite sure that these provisions, which have been put together in a hurry, have also been broken in, and that at least those points that will enter into force later will be changed before the date of entry into force comes into force. But I want to look at a few aspects. Firstly, the change in the system of taxation of banks, i.e. the shift from the taxation of profits distributed by credit institutions to the taxation of profits earned. You see, in the event of such a fundamental transition, of fundamental change of principles, the question arises of what happens to this profit that has been earned but which has not been distributed by the time the law is amended. Will it be taxed ex post, will it not be taxed, or will there be some transitional provision? It's missing here. When I asked the committee chairman, the answer was, I think, relatively honest. It was literally not taking much action against them. It can be understood that if banks continue to pay dividends as much as they make profits each year, and this is offset by advance payments, then there will be a situation where profits earned and not distributed until the entry into force of the law are "forgiven', which will not be taxed. That is what I understood, and that is what the chairman of the committee said. This is one aspect. The second aspect on which I want to stop is still the great confusion that goes along with all the drafts of the current coalition. There are, let's say, such smaller and bigger lies mixed up and it's quite difficult to orientate. I saw on the news that a week ago, the government coalition made a joint statement that the joint declaration would remain and that there would be no pledge tax as planned. In a smaller letter concerning the joint declarations, the spouses were given a greater opportunity to declare together. Then what is it? This is not a joint declaration, even the concept of a joint declaration has disappeared from the law. The committee chairman mentioned that in the end there was a very good answer that we had been waiting for. Luckily, it arrived at the last minute. This came from the Ministry of Finance and concerned the financial impact of the amendments to this draft. It should have been on the bill from the beginning, but it came at the last minute. While this table has been made in a very concise form, there are still separate questions to be asked to understand it, there are some figures to be taken into account. It turned out that the restoration of the possibility of joint declarations would generate costs for the state budget of EUR 22 million per year. 22 million! However, this current amendment, which is also called a partial restoration of the joint declaration and which concerns only some of the possibilities for tax-free income transfers, costs 3.4 million. Perhaps by incomplete recovery of income tax returns, in short, on the account of spouses and families, the state budget will be implemented at around EUR 19 million per year. We can say that there was a small concession in the tax returns, about 15% of what a complete recovery would have meant. So there is very little in this bill that could be said positive. Perhaps it may be positive to point out what is involved in the taxation of options, but in the rest of this, all of this is only subject to great criticism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U467	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U468	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a draft before us, which is generally said to be a bad draft, which contains some good things. These good things were already mentioned here. I will add to them the lower taxation of the constant dividend tax, which, by the way, came up already during the previous government, even in the same economic development working group where I had the honour to participate. But basically, the bill's bad, it's basically bad. He's put together from different things. I would like to remind you that today we voted here without knowing a number of drafts concerning traffic law and traffic-related matters. But when my previous speakers spoke of this bill as a serious bad thing, I am talking about how badly it has been handled. It's been said that we needed to hurry. It was pathetic to listen when the reason was that it was an accident at work. The Riigikogu should process the drafts in such a way that it is not an accident, things should be good, or we should feel that they have been done in the best possible way. Just because someone's ever done something isn't a reason. Worse still, the judge doesn't know much about the bill. He hasn't made things clear to himself. We hear again and again the reasoning that this is an opposition and a coalition...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U469	Sorry, Maris Lauri! People's ambassadors are protesting, they can't hear. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U470	We always hear talk about opposition and coalition, but the question is that the Riigikogu has to take decisions. Yes, we have an opposition and a coalition in the hall, and there are certain positions that run in the water. But a whole lot of decisions, and I don't think most of them run that gap. This means that we still make the majority of decisions from the point of view of how the state of Estonia and the people of Estonia will benefit. If the argument is only that the coalition agreement requires it, then it is a poor justification. I don't know why the judge hasn't made things clear to himself. I've been working on the bill, too. I would remind you that, at the very beginning, I dealt with the draft law on public procurement. I made myself clear, I took the time, and I made it clear. Yeah, it took a long time, but I figured it out. Paragraph 105 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that the provisions of the Bill are discussed at second reading. But it is impossible to reason if one party essentially refuses. I will now refer to the debate that took place on the previous item. The judge said he didn't care, he didn't know, he didn't want to know, and he explained that somebody knew, but they wouldn't publish it to anyone in the hall. After all, it is the task of the judge to identify all kinds of problem areas, to ask the officials and the initiators of the draft the right questions and then to pass this information on to other members of the Riigikogu in the hall. We kept hearing that we all had different opinions here. Yeah, everybody has different opinions. I, too, accept that people have different opinions, but I don't constantly go around saying that that's your opinion, but that's my opinion now. I'm always trying to explain why I feel something or something. I'm trying to do this so I don't insult others. Do whatever you want, but there is disrespect for other members of the Riigikogu. I don't know if it happened so accidentally or intentionally, but it seems that way. I will repeat what I have started with is that this is a bad bill with some good things in it, but there is so much bad that it would be a crime to move on with this bill. The Reform Party Group therefore proposes that the draft law be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U471	Honourable Riigikogu, no more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations. There are 21 amendments to the draft 458 and we will start reviewing them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, taking full account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U472	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U473	Thank you. Let's vote. Mr Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which, of course, has been fully taken into account by the Commission. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the first amendment, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in full consideration. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, without taking account of it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U474	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U475	Okay, let's do it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 3 tabled by the Reform Party Group, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The third amendment was voted in favour of 33 votes against and 54 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The third amendment was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 5, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 6, tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U476	I would like to ask you to vote on this constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U477	I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The sixth amendment was for 33 members and 55 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. Amendment 6 was not supported. Amendment 7, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 8, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 9, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 10 is from the Free Party Group; the commission has taken part in the consideration. Amendment 11 is from the Reform Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 12 is from the Reform Party Group, partly taken into account. Amendment 13 has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party without taking into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U478	Thank you. The Reform Party Group wishes to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U479	Let's do it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 13 is for 33 and 54 members of the Riigikogu are against, with no abstentions. Amendment 13 was not supported. Amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the lead committee has been disregarded. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U480	Thank you. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U481	That wish is understandable. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The 14th amendment was for 33 and against 54 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, has been rejected by the commission. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U482	Understandably, I would also like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U483	We are doing this with the same joy that the proposal proposes. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 15 tabled by the Free Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 15 but 54 against, with no abstentions. Amendment 15 was not supported. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U484	Thank you. The Reform Party Group calls for this amendment to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U485	Let's do it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 in favour of Amendment 16 and 55 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 17 is tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, and the lead committee has rejected it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U486	Thank you. The Reform Party Group wishes to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U487	Got it. I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, which has not been taken into account by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 17 was for 33 and 56 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party and has not been taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U488	Thank you. The Reform Party Group wishes to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U489	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th amendment tabled by the Reform Party Group, which has not been taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. The 18th amendment was approved by 31 votes to 55 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. Couldn't find any support. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments, but two statements have been received by the President-in-Office of the House. The first has been submitted by the Estonian Free Party Group, which has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 458. Signed by Andres Ammas with respect. The other has been presented by the Reform Party Group, but this is not about this draft, and that is what we are discussing... [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu! [[Interjections from the floor.]] Yeah, it doesn't matter. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group 458 to interrupt the second reading. Please take a stand and vote. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U490	Dear Chairman, The Free Party Group would like to take a ten-minute break before this vote. We want to consult and find the missing members of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U491	Please! I'll see you at 10:33.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U492	Honourable Riigikogu, during the break, in friendly cooperation with the Chairman of the Group of the Reform Party, the inconsistency between oral and written proposals was also settled, so it is correct that I now inform you that I will put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of the Estonian Free Party Group 458, which has been presented with respect by the vice-president of the Group Andres Ammas, and also the proposal of the Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft 458, which has been presented without respect by the Chairman of the Group Maris Lauri. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U493	Thank you, Mr President. I have a procedural question. Since there has been an additional withdrawal proposal, is it possible to take another break? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U494	No. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose that the second reading of the draft 458 presented by the Free Party Group and the Reform Party Group be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 56 were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 458 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U495	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the second reading of the Draft Amending Law 456 on the State Budget Act. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U496	Mr. Chairman! This draft law was also launched on 4 May. The first reading took place on 17 May. In preparation for its second reading, the Committee on Finance discussed the draft at five meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Finance. The deadline for tabling amendments was 31 May. By this time, 39 amendments were received: 10 proposals from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 11 from the Free Party Group and 13 from the Estonian Reform Party Group, and 5 amendments came from the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The Committee on Finance decided to make six amendments to the draft, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, one of which consists essentially of eight related proposals. The explanations of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments to the proposals. Technical and linguistic improvements have been made to the text of the draft act. Quite a lot of work involved letters from the Commission. They came from the Supreme Court, the National Audit Office and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry; on 24 May, the Chancellor of Justice also sent a referral to the Monetary Affairs Committee. The Monetary Committee met representatives of Eesti Pank at its meeting on 2 May and representatives of the Fiscal Council on 8 May and took note of their information. Now I will talk about the proposals that have been made. The Supreme Court pointed out the problem that the draft seeks to exclude from the annual state budget law approved by the Riigikogu the level of breakdown of the areas of government of the ministries and to empower the Government of the Republic to decide on the allocation of state budget resources between the areas of government, so that the court administration council is no longer able to participate in the process of shaping the budget of the courts of first and second instance. In principle, the Committee on Monetary Affairs supported the amendments to the draft to ensure the independence of the judiciary. The National Audit Office forwarded to the Finance Committee a copy of the proposals sent to the Minister for Finance in the coordination process. The most important of these are the proposal to deal with the change in the budgetary position rule separately from the other changes which are due to enter into force during the budgetary procedure for 2018, as it was considered problematic. Reference was also made to a possible breach of the principle of separation and balance of powers, to the need to dismantle the state budget and draw up forecasts with sufficient clarity and to significantly improve the rules for the implementation and reporting of the state budget. The Committee on Monetary Affairs maintained the reasons put forward in this vast majority of the table of co-ordination. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry proposed that the draft provision (§ 1 (2)) be deleted, which allows the structural deficit of the budget to be shifted to the conclusion that the provision is not really necessary or justified in the long term and does not take account of any future economic problems. Of course, turning to the Chancellor of Justice proved to be the most effective. The Chancellor of Justice referred to a possible contradiction of the draft with the Constitution. According to the draft, the breakdown of the budget law disappears with the accuracy of the ministries, and these and lower-level articulation decisions fall within the competence of the Government of the Republic. According to the Chancellor of Justice, these provisions limit to an unacceptable extent the competence of the Riigikogu to make substantive decisions about the political priorities of the state next year. The Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to seek the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the possible constitutional contradictions set out in the letter of the Chancellor of Justice. This decision was taken on 30 May, but there was another accident at work because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not have a chair for a long time and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not deliver a reply until 12 June. In this reply, the Members of the Commission agreed with the Chancellor of Justice. They were of the opinion that the general role of the Riigikogu in the procedure of the budget must increase, the state budget should be made for years, and the Riigikogu must have the opportunity to decide on the budget with sufficient detail. The meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also pointed out that, following the submission of amendments, some revenue should not be left outside the scope of government and some programmes should not be directly government-owned. Following these opinions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs prepared amendments to the draft, including the draft to bring it into line with the Constitution. The changes preserve the inter-ministerial breakdown of the state budget, i.e. the provisions that the Riigikogu would have allocated funds to the Government of the Republic with the state budget and the government would have broken the funds between the ministries by decree. The principle of administrative breakdown is maintained and the obligation is restored that the Government of the Republic shall immediately submit the budget strategy to the Riigikogu after approval. It is stipulated that, as a general rule, the division between the areas of government of the ministries can only be amended by a change in the state budget. Furthermore, inaccuracies will be corrected and the entry into force provisions will be clarified. Together with these amendments, the Committee on Monetary Affairs took full, partial or substantive account of the 12 amendments tabled by the Riigikogu. These concerned the annual inclusion of planned external grants in the budget strategy, maintaining inter-ministerial breakdown in the state budget and giving the Government at least twice a year an overview of the use of state budget resources. The Finance Committee did not support proposals to amend the rules on budgetary positions and the deletion of §§ 35, 36 and 37 as a whole. In addition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs failed to take into account the proposals to set the deadline for drawing up estimates, as, depending on the availability of statistics, the forecast deadline may shift and there is no practical need to set a rigid date at the level of the law. The Commission failed to take into account the proposals to exclude from the law a provision which guarantees the constitutional institution, at law level, that the budget of the constitutional institution is to be broken down on an operational basis only on the initiative of the constitutional institution itself, not at the initiative of the Government of the Republic, as well as the proposals to delete the provision on the establishment of an efficiency plan, since the efficiency plan is a tool for the effective and efficient use of public resources, and also failed to take into account the proposal that the Government of the Republic should present the budget strategy for the approval of the Riigikogu, as the Chancellor of Justice considers that the approval of the basically valid medium-term budgetary framework would limit the rights of the next compositions and coalitions in the Riigikogu as problems arise with legitimate expectations. For my part, I was delighted by the Chancellor of Justice's address and the decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In my opinion, the changes made have improved the quality of this bill. The Committee on Finance took the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda today, 14 June, and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U497	Questions for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U498	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The current government union is planning an unprecedented budget deficit, not only because of the budget deficit, but also because of the mobilisation of loans. You have planned the nominal balance of the general government in the RES view with a minus 600 million circa. This is a greater minus than it was in Estonia even during the worst crisis in 1999 and 2008 and 2009. Does it seem to you that the Estonian state is currently in crisis when such extraordinarily steps are needed to take a very large amount of credit, the reserves are spent and borrowing is also legalised, which causes the budget deficit to go down?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U499	Thank you. When I answer the question, I will say for sure that there is no crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U500	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U501	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You said that representatives of Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council also visited the Commission, and the Commission took note of their views. Would you be more specific about the views of Eesti Pank and the Board of Budgets and whether these views have been taken into account in some of the amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U502	Thank you. These views are well known; they were very much reflected in the media. According to Eesti Pank, the measures that the government intends to take are causing the economy to become overheated. We also had a discussion during this debate. For example, in 2006, 2007 and 2008, when the economy grew by almost 10%, the growth was 7%, 8% and 9%, but then no one said that the economy was overheating. Another argument was raised, which is generally acknowledged that we are very much dependent on the world economy and there is nothing to be done about it. Some think that an increase of 3.2% is overheating, but some do not admit it. It's a question of faith again. We took note, yes, of those sound opinions, but no conclusions were drawn in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U503	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U504	Dear Chairman, Honourable waitress! Since the drafting of the bill began, it has been a long time and the main economic indicators of the Estonian state have changed considerably. Today Eesti Pank's new economic forecast was published, where changes to economic indicators have been taken into account. That's the most accurate estimate that can be. According to Eesti Pank's forecast, the structural balance of the budget will not be 0.5% but 0.9% for the next year and will increase to 1.1% by the end of the forecast period. 1.1 is still much more than 0.5. How is this situation to be resolved, because 1.1% of GDP cannot fit into its 0.5% frame? I'm asking you how this situation will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U505	Thank you. On the one hand, we are talking about forecasting and on the other, it is seen as a reality. I have seen many times how forecasts are not being fulfilled and the opposite result comes directly. The coalition thinks we've taken the right course. Whoever is actually right will only be shown by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U506	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U507	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Last year, we had the opportunity to participate together in the preparation of the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, which took the initiative of my colleague, Kristjan Kõljala. This report included a recommendation that the role of the Riigikogu in the budgetary process could rather increase. This was not only the opinion of the committee, but the attitude of the majority of the Riigikogu was expressed through interviews. Please comment on whether or not this draft is moving in the desired direction in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U508	Thank you. I was working with Kristjan on this thing. I was like an understudy next to him. Kristjan did an enormous job, and I am terribly sorry that he is not in the Chamber right now. I remember the percentage of 75. If it were to be extended a little, it can be said that 75 members of the Riigikogu thought that the competence of the Riigikogu in this area and the rights of members of the Riigikogu in the adoption of the state budget needed to be increased. After that, I began to think personally about how it should look like what legislative acts should change in order for us to have this opportunity. I came to the conclusion that when members of the Riigikogu talk about increasing their contributions, it is only possible to do so through political groups. If we focus on the wishes of 101 members of the Riigikogu, it is unlikely that much will come out if everyone wants to increase their personal independence and decision-making ability. The only way I see it is to increase the decision-making of the political groups. At the time we made this report, I had a few natural proposals, and I intend to talk to the new Minister for Finance about this. I also want to talk to the Coalition Council about this, you know that all the coalition factions are chairmen of our committee. When this place ends, I'll prepare for it as the next step. Speaking about this wish of a member of the Riigikogu, I think we are focusing little on our electoral area. These opportunities should be increased. I am going to be too long right now, but I am going to say that I have looked at the powers of MEPs from different countries. You can see standards that seem fantastic to us. Something that would ultimately give us satisfaction with the work done could also be introduced by us. Yeah, I'm gonna do it soon. I am in favour of this report, as I was. I agree with these conclusions and support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U509	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U510	Thank you, good Chairman. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! In your presentation, you referred to a letter from the President of the Supreme Court, where he addressed the Finance Committee with the concerns and prayer of the court administration council. You said the suggestions in the letter were basically accepted. What does "in principle" mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U511	'In principle' means that this breakdown between ministries and sectors has returned to the draft. This means that the situation has remained the same as it was so far, and they can calmly plan and defend their budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U512	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U513	First of all, a factual explanation. I'm taking this opportunity to be in the same hall as Mr. Stalnukhin. That doesn't happen often. There was a great deal of talk in 2006, 2007 and 2008 about the overheating of the economy. I repeat very much! Unfortunately, this cannot be removed from the history of my political action either, but I was not alone. It was said, even though Stalnukhin denies it. Let's keep going. The state budget is either in deficit or not, it is one bit of information: yes or no. If there's a deficit, there's an interesting question here, what's the cause of this deficit? I'm giving you a great opportunity to justify a shortage, which is a world-view thing, or as you say it's a matter of faith, just one predicts it and the other. Okay, let it go. Explain or convince me that this deficit is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U514	That's it? Thank you. I will say three things as a result of this question. First of all, Igor, you don't have to apologize for us being in the same hall together. We have agreed that whoever people choose here, we sit here together and work. You don't have to apologize. Secondly, the fact that in 2006 and 2007 someone was talking about the overheating of the economy, you can, of course, imagine in your thoughts. But I asked the Governor of Eesti Pank why Eesti Pank did not predict that this overheating would result in some negative result. This growth was seen as normal, with a rise of 6 to 7%, which was enormous economic growth. By the way, I don't think this overheating, that's the growth that brought about this crisis. You know perfectly well what happened at the end of 2008 and in 2009. Nothing depended on us, absolutely, the crisis was all over the world. Now for this deficit. The coalition has a programme and this programme needs to be completed. If this leads to a budget deficit in the frame that has been put in place, if it does, I hope that it will not, it will also be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U515	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U516	Thank you. Good waitress! The European Commission, Eesti Pank, the Fiscal Council, private banks, the President's Economic Advisor and several experts from the University of Tartu have said that it is a wrong step to allow the deficit of the state budget, especially now that the economy is on the rise again. I ask you completely frankly and directly: as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, do you consider anyone to be an authority in the financial field if you do not think that those I have listed are, because you simply roll over their opinion? If there is one, maybe you'll tell us who you think is the expert who will give you such good advice that in such a situation, the state budget may be in deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U517	Thank you. I have already said several times today that I believe that the authorities are the people who shape coalition policies, the officials who are involved in the practical realisation of this in the draft law, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and so on. Exactly the people who dealt with it during previous coalitions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U518	Thank you. The thing about me is I have a pretty good memory because I've been doing my own forecasting. I remember that in 2007 and even earlier, Eesti Pank said that it was going to be quick and a little hot. Why didn't they believe him? Then there were other concepts and 6%, 7%, or 8% at the time were perfectly viable. At the moment, we are not able to do this by 3 to 4% because we do not have enough staff, but this resource determines the potential level. Eesti Pank's forecast published today says that the structural deficit can reach 1%. What about the 0.5% now? Can't you believe Eesti Pank at all, as I understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U519	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U520	Thank you. We all have a good memory. If we had a bad memory, we probably wouldn't have anything to do here. The most famous sentence in 2008 that, if it is a crisis, in this crisis I would like to live forever, as said by the Prime Minister at the time, is also remembered, isn't it? I can sense the problem you're talking about. Yes, we have very serious problems with the workforce. Three years ago, I went to a meeting with the current Prime Minister in an ordinary Estonian government. There were 17 people sitting across from us, and at some point we understood their pain and the biggest problem. We asked everyone to show on their fingers how many of their close relatives (first - degree relatives, not distant relatives) live abroad. I had to lift my finger back then, too. There were 17 of them and two of us, but 27 fingers were lifted. It's a huge problem. The question is that those with better qualifications and work experience usually go away. Dear questioner, how do we bring them back? Only on one condition: if they are able to obtain even a close income in their home country for what they receive elsewhere. I don't know any other way. No one gets back with pure agitation and slogans. There is a need to improve living conditions, i.e. better infrastructure, better education and treatment. That's what we're doing right now. It has to do with the tasks that the coalition has assumed and is engaged in. We will overcome any crisis if we contribute to solving certain problems. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U521	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U522	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your speeches today, you have spoken several times about accidents at work in the process of handling drafts. Soon, the Labour Inspectorate will probably have to get involved. But I don't understand one thing. In my opinion, you want to be selective either to praise or to defy the opinion of experts. In the procedure for a previous draft, you referred to the fact that the opinion of these institutions, which has been put into practice in order to say something, has to be taken into account. At the moment, you said about Eesti Pank that it is not very reasonable to take this opinion into account. Is that so, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U523	Thank you. Yeah, I've told you many times that I respect these people if they don't pick a fight. I communicate with everyone in a calm and balanced way. I've had this habit of trying to compromise for a very long time, and it's been practiced in me. But if you don't want to, you have to make choices sometimes, and these choices rule out some opinions. That's right. If it is said that this 3.2% will lead to overheating of the economy, what do you offer? What do we have to refuse? [[Answer from the floor.]] Please press the button and ask! That's how you live. You will not be loved in this Chamber if you are reminded of the time when the situation was reversed, you were in the coalition and our opposition. I remember very well how you at the time denied the validity of a number of experts' opinions. However, I liked those opinions, and I took them into account. It's politics. You want to live in a world where everyone's opinions are taken into account at once. Or maybe it's just the opinions you have. You're gonna have to figure that out for yourself, though.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U524	More...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U525	I just remembered one thing. We are talking about the crises that sometimes occur in the world. Today, there is a crisis in Ukraine, but in 2000 Toomas Savi invited me to go with him to Ukraine. There were five of us, there was Jüri Tamm and there were two other members of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, I don't remember who they were right now. We were in Ukraine, and like once and for all, we sat at the table with the members of the woods at night. I asked you about a meal, how it was made. Arto, they got in a fight. They went on to argue about how it was made, almost to rattle. Yes, the Slavs are very close, but they have a peculiarity there that absolutely cannot be compared to us. There's gonna be a fight over the Pelmens, damn it, his mother does that, and his wife does it differently!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U526	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U527	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Indeed, the Governor of Eesti Pank went to the Riigikogu twice in the spring and said very clearly that taking the deficit in the current economic situation is a very stupid step. The National Audit Office pointed out that different parts of the draft should be dealt with separately. In the meantime, the Chancellor of Justice has also received a very important position in which he refers to a possible contradiction with the Constitution. The establishment by the Government of the Republic of Estonia of the conditions for drawing up the state budget does not ensure that important matters of state life are decided by the Riigikogu. We here should respond to this and stand for the rights of the Riigikogu. Have you analysed this issue thoroughly in the Commission at all? Have you also spoken to the new Minister of Finance, who should take responsibility for all this crap?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U528	Thank you. You know how the Commission works: someone is present and you have the opportunity to ask questions. If you don't want to, then no one can pressure you to ask. After that, you'll have a chance to exchange ideas. If you have thoughts and a desire to do so, you can, of course, do so, but if you do not want to do so, then there is no way to put pressure on you either. After all, there will be a vote on those issues that require a decision to be taken. Why do I have to explain all this to you? It is not possible to find a complete consensus like Paradise on every issue. It just isn't. I have not had time to talk to the new minister; I have had quite a lot to do with the drafting of documents and paperwork. Yeah, that's the answer to your question: I haven't talked to him yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U529	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U530	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! Last week, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we touched on the issue of tax fraud and it turned out that thanks to the declaration of 1000 euro bills, the Estonian state has already received 170 million euros of revenue and the circa is 1 billion euros on the Estonian black market. These amounts are positive on the one hand, they show that the tax administration is doing a good job. At the same time, the IRS still has a number of fields of work. Does this provide assurance that the budget deficit is justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U531	Thank you. I don't see a direct connection here. If it is a crime, if there are envelope wages or, I don't know, a secret transport or something like that moves into our market and brings money to criminals, not to the state budget, then, of course, this situation needs to be improved. But I already told you today that I think our tax authorities are the best in the Baltic States. You've been briefed, and you have an idea of it. We don't have it yet. But this thing we keep in mind, the numbers that remained sounded very interesting. It's the first time I've heard them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U532	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U533	I'm going to be more specific about this stay in this room. The question is not that we are both ambassadors, but that while the Riigikogu is discussing financial matters, the chairman of the Monetary Commission simply goes cold. I swear to you, he had absolutely nothing to do out there. He just showed us that we had nothing to do with it. But now let's move on. We are in a situation where we can say that it is not possible for large companies to employ relatively simple workers with a €700 salary. Could the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who is generally speaking today on 'My life and my thoughts on the world', enlighten us whether this is not a real risk of overheating without these three, four or five percent, if there is a situation where there is no labour force simply to take for this money? Was the question understood? I'm gonna ask you this just in case, because it was kind of financial.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U534	Thank you. Igor, you have no need to doubt, after the discussions that took place in this Chamber at first or second reading on the issues of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will read a verbatim report, because some nuances may go unnoticed. I'm reading your great speech, too. I have no doubt that this was an excellent speech. I'm sorry I left, I didn't know it would give you such a moral blow. I promise I will listen to your next speeches on the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Now, with shame, however, I have to admit that this movement of your logic from this 700 euros overheating was incomprehensible to me. You know that not everyone always understands you. In one of the previous questions, you mentioned Facebook. When I start reading the verbogram, I'm going to look at your question on Facebook because, frankly, it was something I still have to look at. Sure. If I can figure out what you wanted to ask, there's probably gonna be an answer. If you don't mind, it'll be somewhere in the villains.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U535	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U536	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I think the budgetary balance is such a wholesome thing that there is no need for any experts to evaluate it. In fact, on the contrary, it is precisely in order to disbalance the budget that expert advice should be sought. I am asking what experts the Commission used before it came to the view that it is a good idea to take the budget out of structural balance at a time of rapid economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U537	Thank you. In my opinion, the experts are the people who have been working on Estonia's monetary and economic policies for years and years. Luckily, there's still enough of these specialists. Most of the time, I consider the opinions not always, but most of the time, to be very worthwhile. If the Members of the Commission suddenly figure out that we need another expert and make such a wish, we will discuss it. Probably considering our atmosphere, we'll do it successfully, we'll invite these experts and see what they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U538	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U539	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! As I understand it, in your opinion, the main economic experts you are listening to are officials of the ministries. Unfortunately, officials are very dependent on coalition policy. Your government has dissolved a working group of economic experts from Erkki Raasuke and has replaced it with a working group of government members. Do you consider that there are economic experts independent of the coalition's policy? If so, who could they be, who would seem trustworthy to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U540	To be honest, I didn't really understand the meaning of this Kruimeltje group. I think that the more opinions you have to listen to, the better, and that another good idea should come from somewhere, that requires listening to all people. Well, what am I talking about here? You understand perfectly well that there is a coalition and a coalition council. Perhaps there are experts who are recognized and who say otherwise, but usually the experts are focused on some very narrow area, they are theorists. And at all, do you know who the expert is? It's a person who's not from our neighborhood. I trust more those who can bring together high mathematics and poetry and who know something about our country's problems. Okay, they don't have to be experts, but they can balance it with what they know about life in some province, say softly. So I will continue to tell you that I may wish to speak with the Commission or with me. This doesn't happen very often here in Tallinn, but in my own neighborhood I'm used to everyday conversations when I'm there. I have an appointment this week for Friday and Saturday. But still, when I listen to those people who know the technical details and are everyone in their field super, I don't listen to them anyway, like, I don't know, God. I hope that's what everyone does and looks at all these things through the prism of their life experience. I don't know, I have to express my thoughts in Estonian... Yeah, well, again I started talking about something else, not what I need to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U541	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U542	Thank you. Good waitress! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was one of those committees which was asked for an opinion on this draft, in particular with a view to constitutionality. We also had a Chancellor of Justice called. The letter from the Chancellor of Justice is available to all of us. There he says that he believes that the transition to an activity-based budget is not compatible with the logic of the Estonian Constitution, the parliamentary state or the coalition government. So, according to the Chancellor of Justice, the compatibility of this draft with the Constitution is questionable. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs reached the same conclusion after discussing this issue. Do you intend to do something to eliminate this inconsistency with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U543	It's already been eliminated. According to the wishes of the Chancellor of Justice, everything that he thought might have been contrary to the Constitution has been changed. I already told you about it. When we discussed this draft in the Commission, I asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance whether it also follows from putting such money in a boiler at national level that such a step should be taken in local governments, because we have a system of copying ourselves, a successful model copying itself to the lower levels. The answer, that no, it is not meant to be, was, in fact, counterproductive. So I was waiting for your committee's response, excited. That answer, as I have already said to my colleague here, made me happy. I'm glad we've fulfilled these... I wouldn't say precepts, but the recommendations of the Chancellor of Justice and yours too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U544	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U545	Thank you. Good waitress! I was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when there was also the Chancellor of Justice and there was talk about the improvements made by the Ministry of Finance. I'm sure the officials of the Ministry of Finance may say that they did them in their best interests and in their best interests, as you believe happened. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also asked the Chancellor of Justice if he was sure that things had now been resolved. The Chancellor of Justice said he wasn't sure he'd have to look into it and see it again. So actually, there's quite a chance that this thing hasn't been solved. If you look at these improvements, my experience in this matter is, of course, much smaller than that of the Chancellor of Justice, then it must be said that there is no such conviction. What happens if the Chancellor of Justice, looking at this bill with these improvements in detail, still finds that there is a contradiction with the Constitution in some aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U546	Thank you. To begin with, I have seen several Chancellors of Justice in this Chamber, and it seems to me that whoever is doing these things now is the most active, most energetic and thoughtful of them. So if the Chancellor of Justice finds any further alleged contradiction, I repeat, that there is a presumption of contradiction, we will once again ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to review it. If the opinions of the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs match, I see no alternative but to bring things into line. Anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U547	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U548	Good President! Good waitress! The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has stated in its recommendations that a budget deficit could be justified if state budget resources were channelled into productivity-enhancing activities of the economy. Could you please mention three activities planned by the government in the state budget to support productivity gains?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U549	Thank you. With the exception of a few things, I can explain to you about all these activities how they increase productivity. But here I am just saying that we have not discussed this in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U550	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U551	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm a little cautious about the way you and the experts do things. You are referring to the fact that the Commission, led by Mr Raasuke, was simply a committee and it is nothing to do with its disbanding. We recall the economic crisis of 2008 and 2009. Experts from the University of Tartu, such as Varblane and others, were involved in the discussions before the decisions that the government had to make at the time. I'm listening to what you're saying, whose main argument is that today this is the coalition, you understand, we have a coalition council and we decide. It seems to me that the idea that IRL had once proposed to cut off the budgetary balance in the Constitution is now a hundred times more topical than it was at the time. Does it not seem to you that the state budget in terms of its principle and value is more than one coalition council? To play with it in the way you are doing here is not very sensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U552	You call it a game, we call it a job. I don't know if I'm gonna get another chance to say it, Urmas, but I just admire you. You're such an experienced politician, you're gonna take the word and you're like a good breed dog who doesn't let his teeth go. Once it's a sugar issue, once an expert issue, you expect him to speak and say something that could be used against him. An experienced, highly experienced and skilled politician. Let's just give it up for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U553	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U554	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! You said that you were prepared to develop such a plan so that the political groups had greater opportunity to participate in the budgetary process. Would the committees fit in with the plan? I have already given an example that we actually have tax fraud in the market, but in order to detect them more effectively, more resources are needed for the respective institutions, so they are crippo, prosecutor's office or the Tax and Customs Board. The Commissions have this information on how much more resources are needed for one or the other. The Committee on Legal Affairs knows this about volunteer rescuers, police officers, etc. Do you think this would be some kind of thinking place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U555	Yeah, it's definitely a thinking place. Here, too, is the representative of the staff of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'll ask him to write it down so we don't forget about it. It is strange that the Committee on Legal Affairs knows better than the Committee on Monetary Affairs what the financial needs of the power structures are in order to increase the income of the state budget. I think we're gonna talk to the staff about this tomorrow, and we're gonna agree on how we're gonna arrange these meetings. I'm sorry, was there anything else at first? No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U556	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U557	Thank you. First of all, I want to clear up one of your examples of the past and good memory. You said that Andrus Ansip praised the economic crisis in 2008. Let us be precise, this was his claim on the 2007 economic indicators, when economic growth was above 10%. But what I want to ask you is how you'll see the situation in five years. Right now, you're raising taxes, you're using reserves, and you're taking out loans, that's a clear political choice. We know that demographic trends are reducing labour force, working hands are decreasing, meaning that the burden on taxpayers is increasing. How do you expect, in five years' time, if taxpayers are less and more burdened, to increase taxes, cut costs or borrow again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U558	Thank you. Pretty often people ask me for some prognosis. I say I don't even know what's gonna happen in a minute. In fact, this is how it works in life, and I never make those predictions. One thing I know for sure: in this Chamber it would be extremely natural to make an estimate for five years when the next elections will be in 2019. At first, I hope that the government and coalition programme will succeed and that the measures we are taking will play some role. What is there to deny, it is not intuition or anything, it is just sometimes necessary to communicate with people who have decided to move away from Estonia, work and live somewhere else. This spring, it seems to me, I have already seen two of these people who have returned to Estonia because this life, which seemed very nice to them at first, they lived in Germany and Spain, gradually became ugly. So we are contributing to changing and improving living conditions and working conditions, in other parts of Europe there are very negative processes, as it seems to me. In any case, I hope that the people who have left Estonia will gradually return. That's what we're working for. Five-year prognosis? God, I don't even know what's gonna happen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U559	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U560	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The structural balance of the budget is a concept that is very difficult to understand in the wider public and perhaps also in those members of the Riigikogu who do not exactly work in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The text of the second reading of the bill states that the cumulative structural balance will be fixed at the end of the previous financial year and will not be adjusted subsequently. However, reading this draft explanatory memorandum shows that this structural balance is a category that varies over time, it cannot be fixed. It is time-changing because it takes into account the production gap, which is constantly revalued. I do not understand what a cumulative structural balance means. What does that really mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U561	Concentrated if you translate that word. I'll remind you of one. I don't remember if you were there at the time or not, but we talked to the specialists at the Ministry of Finance in Room 241. There was not a very pleasant experience when they began to receive instruction, for they changed their perception of the same balance and all that stuff. There was a very well-earned sentence that we lived without it until 2011 and that it is up to us to regulate how we view it. I remember some colleagues didn't like it very much. But I am in favour of the view that all these calculated balances will change and will not change. You don't understand it, even though you're a former finance minister, right, and you've worked a lot in finance. Who else in this hall can understand that? Yeah, it really is. But these are the specialists you worked with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U562	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U563	Good President! Good waitress! As we know, fiscal policy is a very important tool for driving innovation. Have you, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, also assessed the impact of the fiscal policy currently planned on innovation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U564	Thank you. I'm starting to be scared of that table at the end of the second row. That is such a nice question: fiscal policy and innovation. Cooking a pancake and riding a bike like this. Yeah, if you want, I can see the connection, if you don't want to, I can't see it. Why not? Such an attractive conversation, I will link innovation and fiscal policy to what you want. At the moment, I do not understand what this has to do with what this bill is. But really cool, really great, I liked it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U565	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U566	Thank you. I wanted to remind the waitress that the return migration to Estonia has been positive for a few years. This did not happen this spring, as growth did not turn positive thanks to the work of this government, but the cycle changed as early as last year. Somehow you don't want to talk about future forecasts or think about the future. In my opinion, people in this Chamber should think about the consequences of these actions and be able to think ahead for one, two, five or even ten years. If you do not want to deal with prediction, you could look at the past, for example, how the countries of southern Europe have come up with this debt. Why have we talked so much about Greece in this Chamber? After all, the Centre Party has been one of the most critical forces in helping Greece. Do you concede that living beyond power is not, in fact, very moral if responsibilities are left to the next governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U567	Thank you. As far as I know, no one is going to take these responsibilities, and the Chancellor of Justice categorically denied this possibility in his recommendations. It is not correct to compare us with Greece or South America. There's another psychology, there's another way of thinking and other habits. They are not comparable. I do not know whether Estonians, Canadian Estonians and Swedish Estonians are alike or not. But Estonian Russians and Russians are quite different people, and their language is also very different. It's not possible to start comparing just because there's a point of touch. I'm sorry, Arto, but I don't think that was very correct. We're going our way, we're not following Greece or South America.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U568	I'm sorry that I wanted to end up with such a substantive answer too soon. No further questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U569	I was talking about dumplings so there's something to talk about in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U570	I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U571	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This probably remained a secret, so I am saying that we were actually discussing the rules for drawing up the state budget here. These are so important that they are specifically mentioned in the Constitution and, unlike the annual budget, they require a majority in the composition of Parliament. But there is one rule that, based on the experience of the crisis, has been raised much higher than this rule of 51 votes, that is the rule of budgetary balance. It has been agreed in Europe that it will be written in a constitution or a separate constitutional law. The name of the rule agreed on on the basis of the crisis is a structural balance. We have heard a lot about the budgetary balance and deficit here, but it is all about köki-möki compared to the structural imbalance. The structural balance is the essence and essence of this law. It's gonna be ruined, this deal, this experience is gonna be abandoned. Estonia position itself among the weakest budget countries, having for a long time been their absolute peak in terms of regularity and efficiency. It is an awful shame, it soils Estonia's reputation. It's the first feeling I've ever had in this mess. But it's worse. It's about how this rule is broken. It will be violated by creating a new government that will give itself the right to live beyond force. Living beyond power does not mean a deficit; living beyond power means a structural deficit. A structural deficit could also be considered if it had not been introduced in the ugly way that the law provides for it. This law provides that this deficit is to be imposed at the expense of previous governments. It's like a nobleman who inherits the estate and then starts selling things, burning books, and burning furniture. It's that kind of behavior. The strength buffers and reserves created in the form of structural surpluses of previous governments will be taken and expanded. The law is that we can live beyond our means, while others must rebuild this manor. That's the point of this law. Everything else we've talked about here for nothing. We've talked a lot about taxes. These are ugly things, they've pissed people off, but in the background, there's quiet destruction and stealing, and it's much bigger. The main problem with these taxes is not so much those taxes themselves, but that these stupid taxes create additional budgetary dependence. Putting together a structural minus, past living and loans and adding dependence on stupid taxes and the fact that now the golden age is both economic and euro money, which will soon end, is a very ugly result. The Board of Budgets has spoken about this; Eesti Pank has spoken about this. There's been some bullshit about it from this remote control, talking about it for hours and not knowing what it's about. We are heating up the economy, which is already taking up the tide and where there are already clearly signs of overheating, where there is no free labour, where the number of job vacancies is rapidly increasing and businesses cannot realise their business projects. The country is pouring loans, reserves and new taxes on the economy in such a way that labour is once again concentrated in the area of domestic consumption, with which we have not had problems for years. The export economy is losing its workforce, that is the problem. The rules are now in place so that this swine can be carried out. We should talk about it, not slouch and talk about our grandmothers here, and I don't know what. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U572	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U573	These rules provide, first, for living at the expense of the past and, second, for the subsequent governments to cut. The next governments must start cutting back from 2021 and they must make up for the debt we now have here. They have to pay old debts, they are losing euro money, and they certainly do not live in the high economics we now have. It's a serious high juncture when all people are at work, every single scumbag is on account, and there's something to offer to anyone who's willing to take the job. The result of this behaviour is, as Eesti Pank has said, breaking the growth potential. We are deepening the structural problems of the economy. The question now is not how fiscal policy creates innovation, but how fiscal policy destroys innovation. The simplest economic structure is the one created by pouring money into the economy at a time when the economy is overheated, there is no labour force and money comes from the internal market. We actually saw a similar economic structure during the boom. If there is any dispute here, I am surprised that Mikhail Stalnukhin did not understand what was said by Eesti Pank and the Budget Council, then how many indicators show overheating. I'm sure it's there for the labour force. The government referred to last year's current account surplus. This was indeed an unusual situation in Estonia, but it has already disappeared, there is no current account surplus anymore, there is already a current account deficit. The reason for this is not because Estonia did something wrong when there was a surplus, but because there was no demand in Europe. Now there is demand in Europe, our neighbours are doing well. All we have to do is give up new business projects, but they don't need a workforce. It's the crime that's being committed with the rejection and rejection of these rules. Believe me, the government in power in 2021 is making a terrible effort to put together a budget. I have put together the budget, I have seen how EUR 100000 is debated one by one with ministers, whether this extra cost is really needed, whether each particular job is urgently needed, and usually the answer is that it must be done without it. But here we are dealing with real cuts, severe cuts, here we are dealing with loans that have been thrown into the economy, which we did not have even during the crisis. It's all gonna have to be compensated. That is what the budget rule provides for, and that is what must be compensated for. This is not only provided for by economic law, but also by the budget rule. That's what this is about, not what Mikhail Stalnukhin thinks about the state of life and how and who thinks what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U574	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U575	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A paper is about to be completed where the Free Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft. Jürgen Ligi has said a lot of things about the effects of this bill, about the structural deficit and, more importantly, about living at the expense of previous and future governments, which is all very bad and, I would say, immoral. There is another reason why we do not support this approach to the state budget law. We see here, however, that the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the state budget is not increased but reduced. Yes, there were some reactions to the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice, but we do not have full clarity. It is certainly not in line with what we discussed here some time ago in connection with Kristjan Kõljala's report, talking about the role that the Riigikogu should actually play in dealing with the state budget. Mr. Stalnukhin is certainly acting as the rubber stamp of the government here. I am sorry to say this, but the quality of all tax laws and the processing of this law here in the Riigikogu has indeed been below the records. I understand that Stalnukhin has become chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs because the Centre Party had no one better to take. He's been carrying this burden, but not the essence. We are now faced with a situation where the previous Minister of Finance came here and presented us with slogans, and now we have a new Minister of Finance who has not, at all, been before the Riigikogu with these drafts and must take responsibility for all that we are doing here. I would like to remind you once again that the Governor of Eesti Pank visited the Riigikogu twice this spring and said, both by introducing the overview of Eesti Pank and by responding to our inquiry, that this is the worst time to bring the budget deficit. In the meantime, statistics have emerged which confirm that the economy is growing. This actually warns us even more about the overheating of the economy, and even more so, Ardo Hansson, as Governor of Eesti Pank, and the fiscal council, which is a respected coalition, have made critical remarks about your plan. You also failed to listen to the proposals of the National Audit Office. I still remember that when Jüri Ratas became Prime Minister, he promised a different policy and hearing different views. What we have seen here in dealing with these drafts is the symbiosis of deafness and ignorance. In this way, we are going to change the rules of the state budget in Estonia. Most of all, I regret once again the IRL, which once promised to bring the principles of budgetary balance into the Constitution, but now it is all that has been said here. This small torch with tax laws, which had no major consequences, is not as important as the issues of the state budget law, for which nothing has been achieved. Mr. Seeder came to meet me in the hallway, and I asked him if it was okay to bring the deficit to the state budget. He said it wouldn't be acceptable under any circumstances. I am quoting this corridor conversation right now because the Chairman of the IRL does not usually come to this board to express his views. But if this is not acceptable, then that is the way we should vote. Or is there really hope that this coalition will be temporary and that someday these rules will be changed? In another way, it is very difficult to understand how one political force, who has passionately defended the balance of the budget, is prepared to break it at the most inappropriate time. I do not think that there is ever a need to put the budget in deficit, but now is certainly not the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U576	Hanno Pevkur, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U577	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here at the late hour of the evening? I dare say, as an introduction, that this is actually a theft at the expense of the future and of the past, as funny as it may seem. If one government starts work, then it would be normal for it to look forward, but the current government has looked back several times, and unfortunately it will also look at whether there is anything else in the old wallet. Turns out it is. This old wallet now needs to be scooped out and borrowed for the future. That's why it's stealing for the future. Jürgen rightly said that whoever is in the new government is very difficult for them, especially in 2021 and the following years. Indeed, if the current government spends both the reserves of the previous government and the opportunities of the future government, then future governments, whoever belongs to it, whether the Centre Party or anyone else, have two choices: either to cut hard or to take an even bigger loan. But unfortunately, this other option doesn't work. We have agreed jointly in Europe on budgetary rules that no longer allow the loan to go forward. I did not ask the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who he thought was the authority. While the European Commission, Eesti Pank, the Budget Council, the President of the Republic's Economic Advisor, business umbrella organisations and several other experts have confirmed that it is a very, very big mistake to put the budget deficit at the moment, who is the smart one who says it is not? Who's the one who says we're gonna take 600 million loans in four years and create a greater deficit and debt burden than we've ever had before? Even in the most difficult times of crisis, in 1999 and 2008, the overall minus was smaller. Now that's how it's done. Whoever cares about looking at economic indicators, including their history, sees that the economic cycle is about ten years, +/- two years, and this economic cycle will in any case also have a time of crisis. Let us take a logical look: the last serious crisis was in 2008 and 2009 and now it is 2017. It makes sense to think that in the next three or four years, we will face a very difficult time. How big this crisis is, we do not know today, and what is the reason, we do not know. But we can be pretty sure that history is repeating itself. In these circumstances, where the loan and deficit are so large, the time is also coming when the European Union's funding for the Estonian economy will be smaller. We need credit capacity then, not now that the economy is already growing quite nicely. Let's look at some other indicators that are not directly related to structural deficits, but that have a significant impact. First of all, employment. Last year, the employment rate was 76.3% in the 20- to 64-year-old age group. 76,3! When the competitiveness plan was written in 2011, 76% of employment was expected to be achieved in 2020. Our economy is doing quite well, people get jobs and the unemployed are relatively few. Let's look at the GDP gap. This, too, is equally positive. Next year, we are expected to have a circa 0.6% GDP gap. The Ministry of Finance sees a negative gap here for some reason, but it's on their conscience. What's negative? Inflation. As a result of all this credit rally, inflation is increasing and prices are increasing, and all the measures that the government is planning to take with the money that tax increases and loans are actually losing their value, as inflation is already above 3% and is forecast to increase further. What is important is that the loans we are taking now need to be repaid one day. Let's look at the economy a little bit more closely again. We can see that interest costs are increasing. You're one-handed, like you're giving opportunities, but with the other hand, you take them off, because interest costs come on. Apart from interest expenses, Estonia is at the top of the primary balance of 0.8%. For example, let us look at Greece, which has very high interest costs, whose primary balance is at 4.2. These are very different figures. They do not directly affect the structural balance, but they all affect it. They all show that the decision we are making here now, ending second reading, is wrong. It's basically wrong. We cannot in any way support the budget being placed in deficit. It's not the right time. I would even say that there is no budget deficit at all. The state must be so effective that it can keep its expenses commensurate with how much it can earn. You can't borrow forever at home; you have to balance your family's budget in the same way. If you go to the minus, there's gonna be trouble. I do not want Estonia to have problems. With this decision, we are creating very serious problems for the Estonian state. Therefore, the Reform Party Group cannot in any way support this draft. We are vehemently opposed to this. We have also proposed to stop reading this bill, which has already been forwarded to the President of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U578	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U579	Good President of the Riigikogu! Dear Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! You know, I'm not surprised that the economic and budgetary policy of this coalition is such a mess. If the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs does not know that fiscal policy is the same as fiscal policy, then, forgive me, it is about the same if a person does not know the difference between a positive and a negative sign. Okay, man doesn't need to know everything, and he doesn't have to know everything, but if you're in a position like this, you have to clarify the basics. If the basics are clear, we need to learn more, and we need to use the help that is being offered, and listen to what the knowledgeable people are saying. But we have heard here today that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs thinks that only those who tell the story that suits him are worth listening to. That story that doesn't suit him, well, that's bully. This gives us this picture, which is why our country's economy and fiscal policy are driven just because I don't know how to say deep into a thick pile or into Mariana's trench. If these areas are run by people who don't know what they're doing, and the only reason is that the coalition decided, and decided alone, not listening to experts and not considering them, not at all, then that's the problem. The result is a lack of quality, incompetence. And they'll be proud of it! We have now already had a third item on the agenda, in which we did not hear any substantive answers in the debate, but there was nothing to say, if not something else. In my opinion, it was also an insult to the questioners. Bad listening, ugly listening! To be honest, you should be ashamed of such a performance. I really wanted to talk more about the budget going into the woods, the substance of the matter, but the previous speakers have talked about all these things. My background, competence, professional experience, I dare say that I am not among the poorest economic analysts in Estonia, saying that if we go on like this, precisely with the plan that the coalition is planning here, we will end very badly and we will not end badly in 2021, but sooner. I would then like to see those people who are voting for such a thing right now and look at them. Honestly! Then you should be ashamed. But I don't think you're ashamed because then you're not here, hopefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U580	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U581	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take this opportunity to say a few words on two subjects. The first is what we call the budgetary process, and the second is the problem that has already been repeatedly mentioned here, why it has not been possible to write into the Constitution that the budget should be balanced. On the first issue, I would like to say the following. At the beginning of the work of the IX Riigikogu it became clear that during the previous term the budget forecast had probably been too optimistic and based on it the budget. After Mart Laar's second government came to power, two negative state budgets had to be made during the first year and public spending had to be cut because the state's income was not sufficient at the time. One of the results of this was that a new draft of the basic law on the state budget was prepared at the Ministry of Finance and that law was also adopted in the Riigikogu. This has probably been changed in a number of ways later, but the result is that the opportunity for members of the Riigikogu to participate in the design of the budget is small, almost negligible, compared to the time before this reform. I do not know how this led to a change in the process of preparing the budget in the Ministry and the government institutions as a whole, but in any case the budget began to reach the members of the Riigikogu in a form that was not as clear as it was before, at least for people like me who were not specialists in this matter. I would therefore like to say that many of the amendments proposed in this draft are at the level of the idea, even if they are withdrawn, in fact the logical consequence of this new basic law, which was adopted in 2000 or 1999. We should probably find the roots of a lot of trouble there. The second thing is that, in its time, Europe really went through this, let's say, the modern idea that the principle of the balance of the state budget should be included in the Constitution. Some countries did. I had to deal with this problem a little at one time, and I also had to look at how it was done in other countries. I came to the conclusion that it may not be the case in every country, but in the Estonian country the attempt to write this thing in a sensible wording and a sensible length of constitution will probably never succeed. So when there were complaints that why the IRL had abandoned this idea, I think that those who promoted this idea had not thought through how it could be technically implemented. There are a wide range of problems here. If we have agreed that in this context we will address the balance in a certain sense, we would probably not be able to write it in one or two sentences, and if we wanted to write it very accurately, then perhaps we should include several pages of specific professional text in the Constitution, with a lot of foreign terms inside. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U582	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U583	This is not the only problem where we have the understanding that there should be something in the Constitution, but we cannot find an adequate verbal form suitable for our constitution. One such failed attempt is what I have also mentioned here and what you all know: in the chapter of the constitution of local governments there is a sentence that cities and municipalities are units of local government. But there are still a number of other things, questions of this degree of generalisation that cannot quite be put into concrete wording. So I call on us not to accuse the IRL too much of this. Accusation would mean that we would demand an unrealistic, unfeasible solution from them. This does not mean that we are abandoning the principle that our general understanding is that if there is no emergency situation, the state must not spend more than its normal incomes allow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U584	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U585	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! I have to admit, it's really hard to keep quiet up there. That is why I would like to talk. I also thank Mr Adams for his speech, which I thought was an apology. be the first to make a constructive statement. Hey, good people! It even seems comical that we are debating here, but criticism should be made on other subjects. The criticism could be that some political party, which has always been popular and in power, has had an idea, but now it is somehow being treated against it. Look, we're using money like the euro. The euro has its own rules. Estonia is currently complying with these rules, and once this law is passed, it will also comply with these rules. If the other euro area is much more lenient in its financial policy, why must we be the Pope's pope? It is not a thing of pride that our public debt is 9%, and elsewhere it is 90%. We really need to think about 2021. If we continue to pursue the exact same monetary policy as we are now, then in the future, if we do not receive so much money from the European Union for our development, there will be no alternative but to raise taxes. Everything has to be balanced. Let's make these opportunities more open. This law doesn't make any government any obligation. I dare remind you that if the Republic of Estonia assumes certain financial obligations, they must be confirmed in the Riigikogu and nowhere else. It is not by the basic law of this budget that we take them, but by other decisions. Secondly, I would like to say that I think that this bill, like comic places, is elsewhere. I've been pointing them out. If the majority of the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs thinks so, then for my sake, for God's sake, I will not trample my feet over it. Look, it's kind of a nice situation right now that today the opposition here upset the government that it's raising taxes. If this rule of six months remains valid, it will continue to be so in the future. But with the adoption of this law, the opposition will have another chance. So congratulations to all those who intend to be in opposition for a long time! So far, the government was usually upset about raising taxes in April, May and June, or three months, and for spending too little money and being too small a budget, the government could be spanked in October, November and December, including three months. Following the adoption of this law, this period will be extended, as the State Budget Act introduces one such rule that the Government of the Republic must approve the budget at least eight months before the beginning of the financial year. So congratulations to all the opponents in the future! Three months can then fight with the government why it raises taxes, and eight months can fight why the government spends too little money. To be honest, I do not see any logic at this point. Politically, this is not in any way favourable to any government. But, for God's sakes, we understand that Estonia's current fiscal policy is probably no longer such that it corresponds to the level of a Member State of the European Union that is always getting closer to the average of the same Union in terms of its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U586	Andres Herkel, do you have a procedural question or do you object to statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U587	Thank you, Mr President. My name was not mentioned, but I am simply asking Eiki Nestor's speech whether it is in this Chamber that the country's budgetary strategy is going to have a big negative for the coming year. It's a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U588	We need to look at the verbogram here. [[In the diner.]] Do we consider this question to be rhetorical? [[From the chute hall.]] Colleagues, 45 amendments have been tabled on draft 456 and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U589	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I ask that this proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U590	That's what we do. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment on 456 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The decision of the Governing Commission is to leave it to account. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 32 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. Honourable Riigikogu, I will let the call sound a little less time, because you are all here together. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U591	Thank you. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U592	I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U593	Thank you. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U594	I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! 33 members voted in favour of the proposal and 52 against. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U595	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U596	We'll do it in a minute. Are we ready to vote? [[???Hüüe saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] I am voting on Amendment 4 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U597	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U598	Are we ready for the vote? I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment, which has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the decision of the commission. Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U599	I have a procedural question. Is the candle that burns there now on June 15th lit by the coalition in memory of a balanced budget? [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U600	I am not answering this question because we all know the right answer to the question of why this candle is burning there. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U601	The Reform Party Group requests that Amendment 6 be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U602	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on an amendment by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. That is Amendment 6. Please vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 51 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. This proposal also does not belong to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Special Committee on State Budget Control; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in substance. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and the lead committee has decided to take this into account in part. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Amendment 15 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U603	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U604	We'll do it in a minute. I am voting on the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please take a stand and vote! The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, also tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U605	Thank you. I would like to ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U606	I shall put to the vote the 16th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! 33 members voted in favour of the proposal and 52 against. The proposal was not supported. The 17th amendment has been tabled by the Special Committee on State Budget Control; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U607	Thank you. I would like to ask for this motion of very broad consensus to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U608	Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U609	I have the same proposal: I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U610	The proposal is accompanied by a broad consensus. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 17, which has been tabled by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! The proposal was supported by 34 and opposed by 48 parliamentarians. The proposal was not supported. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U611	However, I would also ask for this motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U612	Here's what we're gonna do. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 18 tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 27 and was opposed by 51 parliamentarians, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 19th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which has also been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission has decided to take full account of it. The 22nd amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 23 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U613	Thank you. We are asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U614	I shall put to the vote the 23rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! The 23rd amendment was voted in favour of 33 and against 54 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission is to disregard it, but according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the Special Committee on State Budget Control; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to § 106 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 28 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. The 29th amendment is tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to § 106 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 30 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to the relevant paragraph of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 31 is tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the Committee on Monetary Affairs' decision is to take full account of this. Amendment 32 is from the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. Amendment 33 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. The 34th amendment is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to § 106 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, this proposal is not to be voted on. I'm forced to use a bell. [[It's ringing the bell.]] 35. Amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; on the basis of the relevant section of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. The 36th amendment is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; this proposal is also not to be voted in accordance with § 106 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu. 37. Amendment is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control; the decision of the commission is not to take this into account; this proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 38 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 39 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is not to take this into account; this proposal is also not subject to the vote on the basis of § 106 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu. The 40th amendment is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; according to the relevant section of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. 41th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it; pursuant to § 106 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this proposal is not to be voted on. The 42nd amendment was tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. 43th amendment is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 44th amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U615	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U616	Let's do it now. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 44. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 53 MPs. The proposal was not supported. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; this amendment has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all 45 amendments. The decision of the commission is to terminate the second reading of bill 456. However, two statements have been received from the Reform Party Group and the Estonian Free Party Group, who are proposing to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act 456. Hanno Pevkur, do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U617	It's a late hour. The last ten hours that we have been here together, the hall remained quiet, has shown that the government union has no sense of responsibility for Estonia's future, and it does not seem to occur either. We therefore propose not to take a ten-minute break and to proceed immediately to the vote on the proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-14_U618	I would like to thank you for this proposal, but I do not think it is appropriate for the President to do so. I shall put to the vote the second reading of the draft proposal of two groups of the Riigikogu 456 to be suspended. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 33 and against 54 MPs. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 456 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's sitting is closed. There's a birthday boy among us who's going to be a year older today, his name is Tiit Terik. There's no point in singing him up because he hasn't gone to sleep. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 00.44.
