ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U1	Hello, strength and a beautiful Monday! We will begin the 7th working week of the V plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U2	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Seven members of the Free Party Group have a question to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, about cars in the administration of the state. We know that both the previous government and the current government have tried hard to deal with companies' cars, though it is desirable to use special license plates and other things. The Free Party Group has undertaken and made an inquiry into all 9000 cars in the administration of state-owned companies and institutions. We found a lot of interesting things there. In view of the fact that, according to the National Audit Office's audit carried out in 2016, this matter is very poorly regulated and little transparent, we are going to ask the Minister of Finance some questions. I'm handing over this question now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U3	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! At today's meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, we suddenly learned that the Minister for Rural Affairs has decided to reduce the support for the replacement service for farmers. This support has grown every year and is extremely important for farmers to be able to rest. Perhaps looking at Toompea, it seems that there is no need for this leave, and now it is decided to start reducing the support. We are asking whether this is a new step to support small business and where such steps can lead. Some members of the Reform Party Group are very concerned about this behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U5	Not only are they concerned, but they are also asking questions. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We're worried, too, but we're worried about something else. On behalf of six members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am submitting an inquiry on the subject of the data on the place of birth indicated in the identity documents of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. On 23 February of this year, the newspaper Tartu Postimees described the situation in the village of Mitkovitsi-Sagorje in Petserimaa, a former Mr Vaido Tammeorg born in Vilo parish, whose birth is marked by Russia in the passport. The passport issued in 1993 marked the place of birth as Vilo parish, but the present passport no longer contains a word about Estonia or Vilo parish. In August 1944, 75% of Petseri county was illegally merged with the Pskov region of the Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic during the occupation. Unfortunately, Estonia has designated Russia as the birthplace for many people born in Petseri County after 1943. It's like legalizing an illegal coercion in 1944. When Tartu Postimees wanted an explanation of the question from the Ministry of the Interior, no ministry official found time within two and a half working days to explain the situation. On the basis of this information, we are going to ask Mr Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, four questions. Firstly, why are the documents of Mr Vaido Tammeoru and many others marked as the place of birth in Russia, even though they were born in Petseri County, in areas legally belonging to the Republic of Estonia? Secondly, does the Ministry of the Interior not recognise the Tartu Peace Treaty as a valid treaty, according to which the areas of Petseri County belong to the Republic of Estonia? Thirdly, how many people are born in Petseri County or in Jaanilinna, or in areas belonging to Estonia according to the Tartu Peace Treaty, but in their identity documents Russia is designated as the place of birth? Finally, whose order or responsibility has an amendment introduced whereby the Ministry of the Interior does not recognise the Tartu Peace Treaty as a valid treaty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U7	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U8	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the foundations of Estonian security policy. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in the proceedings by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Secondly, the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act. Thirdly, the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U9	I have adopted three drafts and three inquiries. If they meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, they will go to the proceedings. Please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. We'll fix the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, before we go to the vote, I have another message for you. I have received a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice to supplement the Thursday session on this week's agenda with proposals sent to the Riigikogu on 17 February to bring several tax laws into line with the Constitution. Since, in addition to everything, it is important that the debate is constructive, I expect both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs to know when they are prepared to do so, and I will then propose that the agenda be supplemented. We don't have to do this today, we can add to the agenda later. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 7th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 86 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U10	Let's get to the agenda. The first item on the agenda is the inquiry No 294 submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jaak Madison, Henn Põlleaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Raivo Põldaru, Arno Silla and Mart Helme. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U11	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Conservative People's Party have submitted a s. 19 January, an inquiry to Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. The topic is compensation for occupation losses in the Republic of Estonia by the Russian Federation. The initiation of the inquiry was due to changes in the government's membership of one party in November last year. Therefore, keeping the issue topical and making progress with it is on the agenda again. The Riigikogu stated in paragraph 6 of the decision of 9 June 2004 on the activities of the "Repressive Policy of Occupations' National Commission' that the Government of the Republic was instructed to submit to the Riigikogu its position on any claims for damages arising from the losses and losses caused during the occupations by 1 January 2005 at the latest. On 14 January 2005, the Riigikogu received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was entrusted to the Ministry of Justice with the task of preparing a possible claim for damages with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since the previous Prime Minister, Mr Taavi Rõivas, and the previous Foreign Minister, Marina Kaljurand, expressed their personal position that they did not see the prospect of moving forward on this subject, we are interested that the Minister would respond briefly to these questions. The four questions we have asked are as follows: What is the view of the Government of the Republic regarding the claim to compensate the occupation damage to the Russian Federation? Secondly, does the Minister of Justice intend to continue to carry out the tasks assigned to the government by the Riigikogu in 2004? Thirdly, how can the involvement of the party of the Government of the Republic of Estonia with the government department of the Russian Federation affect the process of filing damages? And fourthly, is there a plan to require the Government of the Republic to proceed with the identification of the occupation damage and the filing of a claim? That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U12	The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Justice. And now the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, responds to an inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Honourable representative of the people! On the issue of the occupation damage of the place of origin, the representative of the Estonian people, the parliament has confirmed its decision, to which the heir also referred. As far as the position of the government is concerned, neither the previous nor this composition of the Government of the Republic has made separate decisions on the claim for occupation losses in addition to the 2004 decision. I would like to stress that in 2004 in response to Parliament's obligation to deal with the problem of occupation damage, particularly in relation to the person's claims for damages, the government acknowledged that it is necessary to continue to deal with the issues of damage caused by the occupying authorities, and it is also necessary to inform the public more about the repression carried out on the territory of the Republic of Estonia by the occupying authorities. It is important to consider these issues in the light of the international context and to emphasise the importance of this issue in relations with other countries. In other words, if we, as the Republic of Estonia, are guided by the principle of legal continuity, which has been done by the previous governments and also by this government, it follows from the principle of legal continuity that the state, the Republic of Estonia, is uninterrupted, but the Republic of Estonia was occupied, and it is clearly stated in international law that the state is responsible for violating international law. This is part of ordinary international law. The central principle of state responsibility is that the State bears international legal responsibility for an act of international law. A State which has infringed international law is subject to a reparation obligation and the main forms of reparation are compensation and/or apology. I would stress that in 1940 and 1941, and after 1945 during the Soviet occupation, the Soviet Union violated the standards of international law in force at the time, through deportations, political arrests and other mass repressions. The London Statute, which was the basis of the Nuremberg Process, defined in 1945 crimes against humanity and crimes against peace, or aggression, with retroactive effect in the context of World War II. It is also important to stress that the occupation of the Republic of Estonia can be considered a violation of the agreements concluded between the Republic of Estonia and the Soviet Union, as well as a violation of the general principle of international law, the sovereignty of the state and the integrity of the state's territory. The Republic of Estonia has the right to apologize for and/or to claim compensation for these violations, because, as I referred to earlier, due to the illegality of the 1940 annex, the continuity of the Republic of Estonia was preserved. The second question for the heirs is whether the Minister of Justice intends to continue to carry out these tasks. The answer is yes. During the current government, at the end of last year, I also formed an expert committee to explain the issues related to the investigation of damage caused by the activities of totalitarian regimes that occupied Estonia. The task of the Commission is to analyse the methods used in Estonia and other countries to assess the loss of population and economic and environmental damage caused by the activities of totalitarian regimes that occupied Estonia and to develop recommendations for further actions necessary to assess the damage. In addition, it is important to summarise the results of the investigation of occupation losses so far, analyse the legal issues of occupation losses, and it is also important to systematise and disclose information and materials related to the assessment of occupation losses. Question 3: 'How can the involvement of the government department of the Republic of Estonia with the government department of the Russian Federation affect the process of filing damages? ' In my opinion, the Government of the Republic of Estonia is acting on a self-evident basis, firstly, on the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, and secondly, on the basis of the rule of law, including the general principles of international law already mentioned. Therefore, I have in no way perceived any influence on the process, as has been pointed out in the above question. Question 4: "Do you intend to demand that the Government of the Republic proceed with the identification of occupation losses and the filing of a claim? ' I assure you, the Ministry of Justice is working on determining the damage to the occupation, which is self-evident. If concrete conclusions have been drawn from this soil, I consider it important to take this matter before the government to decide. However, as I have emphasised in previous opinions, it is appropriate to cooperate with Latvia and Lithuania on these issues in the same legal context. Given the fact that Lithuania and Latvia have gone further on these issues than the Republic of Estonia, we will, of course, cooperate. It is very important that the methodological basis is comparable. It will then be possible to draw conclusions on how to define this requirement and use possible options under international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U14	Questions for the Minister. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U15	Thank you. Mr. Minister! One major loss of occupation is the bureaucratic use of language in public administration. As former Minister of Language, I would certainly recommend to my ministry and personally to myself the courses that I hope have taken, especially when I listened to the introduction to your speech. My question, however, is about property reform. The new coalition has promised a new ownership reform, to compensate the group of people called forced tenants once again, i.e. not to compensate again, but to treat them in a special way. Is there no way that money could be included in the claim for occupation damage? It's going too far, we're already doing several laps of property reform, and we can't stop. Would you not consider including the claims of the forced tenants in a claim for damages?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U16	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I find the term'sunditor' misleading. In reality, they were forced owners. This means that, in the course of the ownership reform, certain operational restrictions were imposed on the owners of the assets they returned, concerning unilateral termination of the rental contract and the setting of rent limits. So the word'sundant' is more of a political lexia, which a good questioner found as a victim of rhetoric. Secondly, it is clear that the property reform must, of course, be brought to an end. I hope that we will be dealing with this issue in the respective Committee on Government. The core of the end of the ownership reform lies in whether certain municipalities also have the will to make decisions arising from the law concerning the return of property. Here, I think it is necessary for us in the Property Reform Committee to see if, in the case of the remaining files, they are less than a percentage of the total volume of claims submitted in the course of the ownership reform, there is still a need to centralise the issue to the level of the Ministry of Finance. If rural governments disappear, it would inevitably make sense to bring competence to the level of the central government. The third question is this, and I do not think that it is such a misguided problem-setting, so that we do not lose sight of the cause and effect of political rhetoric when talking about ownership reform. Ownership reform was a restoration of the rule of law. This was a restoration of the rule of law in a situation where the citizens of the Republic of Estonia had been deprived of the right to property as a result of a unlawful annexation, including the nationalization of private property in favour of the occupying power. The question is whether, in the course of the property reform, there are very different losses caused to Estonian citizens, including, of course, the domestic human experience that came about in the restoration of the rule of law, that is to say, the losses arising from occupation. In the moral sense, certainly, there is no question of this, because the restoration of legal relations, of course, also caused a great deal of social stress, cannot be underestimated. So when we are talking about the extent of the actual damage caused to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia in different facets and whether it makes sense to deal with it in this committee, I think that, yes, that is certainly a matter worth touching on. In this context, on my proposal, both representatives of the repressed organisations and the Chairman of the Expert Committee on Occupational Damages were incorporated into this committee. So if we appreciate the collection of the matter, it is certainly not possible to look at these issues in this committee apart from the unlawful activities of the state that occupied Estonia. I would also like to point out here that when we talk about personal property, there is, of course, also the problem of the property owners of the areas behind the current control line and the question of how much the state must provide assistance to those persons with its due diligence in respect of claims which in turn concern the activities of the occupying country, which of course has never recognised the legal personality of the state of these assets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U17	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We know that with our neighbours in Latvia and Lithuania, this issue is fully accepted at national level and does not give rise to any debate. It has been decided that this issue must be dealt with and that the damage to the occupation must be recovered from Russia. Perhaps you can give us a brief overview of the state of Latvia and Lithuania that question is in and how far they have come with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U19	Thank you. In Lithuania, this history goes further back. In Lithuania, even in a referendum, an obligation was adopted on this issue, which required the government to deal with the claims arising from the illegal occupation and the problems arising from it. There is also a special law on this, which was also adopted a long time ago. The relevant Lithuanian Commission has done its work. However, I have also spoken with these experts, and there are also a number of questions about the Lithuanian report when it comes to trying to find a more coherent methodological basis in the future. In Latvia, the interim report of the committee, the first version of the report, which also relates to the financial impact of possible occupation losses, was completed almost a year and a half ago. But the Latvian Commission will also continue its research. The committee established in Estonia will definitely cooperate with both the Latvian Commission and the relevant authorities in Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U20	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U21	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is, of course, very symptomatic that you have repeatedly stressed that people of different nationalities. It sounds very apologetic and precisely so that I am sorry that we are still there and that we are working on the subject. Here's the question. You mentioned, among other things, that the intention is to take further action in this area. Is there an intention, or is the Ministry doing damage assessment? And if it is, when can we expect a report? How far has this thing come, and what is the position, attitude and next steps of the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U22	Thank you. As I said, the panel of experts that I set up should give an overview this year. The Ministry will certainly make proposals on this subject for further action and will also work together, as I said, with the relevant institutions of Latvia and Lithuania, to draw up these proposals during this year. This is also the case with our memorandum of cooperation. But I am pleased that Mart Helme has reached a position of skeptic on this issue in the position of the rule of law in a self-evidently affirmative position, i.e. that the issue of the past, the damage caused by the occupations, must be dealt with. Because if I look at a good questioner's previous statement, in this interview, I'll find an attitude that would rather not upset our foreign partners. I quote: 'I do not think that the initiative of Minister of Justice Reinsalu to demand compensation for occupation damage from Russia was timed correctly. " It had been said a long time ago, and I am pleased that the position on this issue has now become demanding and encouraging to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U23	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U24	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A few years ago, your Socialist Euro Ambassador to the current government coalition, Marju Lauristin, who was also involved in property reform, was asked whether we could not recover money from Russia, the Soviet Union, in order to remedy the injustice done to forced tenants. He replied by memory, I recall, this answer is also in one of the films, that the Estonian government is unable to obtain anything from Russia, so the injustice of the so-called forced tenants must be corrected for local money. I will now ask you, continuing with Jürgen Ligi's question, that perhaps you would really try in your document to seek compensation for the damage caused by nationalisation from the present Russia, which has declared itself a legitimate successor to the Soviet Union. I see no reason to smile at it, as you did when you answered Jürgen Ligi's question. That is a very serious question. That way, perhaps, could compensate for the damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U25	Thank you. I say this: we must have a single and comprehensive legal platform; we cannot treat matters individually and differently. It cannot be that a member of the European Parliament once again raises a separate question that the President's office should be returned. You see, the point of view is that the President's office should be refunded without doubt, an important object of symbolic value to us has been unlawfully removed from the territory of our state to the territory of the occupying state, but on other matters we do not have a cross-breeding backbone. This cannot be the case, there must be a system on these issues. Otherwise, we will be embarrassed and conflict with our own thinking. In my opinion, it is very reasonable and logical for us to look at the economic damage caused by the occupation, including the property losses of the Estonian people, in relation to the problems of ownership reform. It's ecumenical, it's a comprehensive solution. If a good questioner perceived an ironic attitude in the case of one of the previous questioners, it certainly was not. I see nothing ironic here, given the scale of this illegal activity and the timelessness and influence of these crimes on our people. To understand correctly the historical perspective, I recall the news I just read. This parallel is not quite unambiguous, but it gives substance to the way in which obligations relating to the historical context are organised in relations between countries. A few years ago, in 2010, the Federal Republic of Germany repaid the last revision of the damage caused to Britain during World War I. There is no one connection here with the subject we are currently discussing, but it shows that the historical perspective in which we are moving, reminding us that the occupation of Estonia ended one generation ago, is certainly not a sufficient basis for us to be either a) abandoned or b) left behind in any way and leave the ambition of academic history alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U26	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I would like a specific answer. When will you or have you already proposed to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to travel to Moscow to claim the occupation damage? When could that happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U28	Thank you. I described my actions and the steps taken by the Ministry of Justice. Whether and how the government realises possible legal requirements depends on what decisions the government takes. The only decision taken by the Estonian Government on this issue has been made in 2004 at the request of a high representative of the people. It was then clearly stated that according to the principles of international law, the losses caused by the occupation of Estonia have occurred, and the Estonian executive state power in the form of government must deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U29	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U30	Let me remind you of the context. This was a year or more ago when the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Estonia, the partyless Mrs. Kaljurand, performed here. He made a very scary statement. The statement was that we will never demand anything back from Russia, because it is hopeless that we are not going to do so and Reinsalu is not thinking about what he is saying. We remember it well because this whole hour here was so ugly. However, listening to you today and to him at the time, do you think it is possible that Estonia will reward Russia by ratifying the border treaty before this problem of occupation damage has been resolved? Your fellow minister at the time, the heart of the party, Kaljurand, thought we were doing the border deal right away, and everything's fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U31	Thank you. The conditio sine qua non must be that the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia is not called into question in any way. Among other things, if there were a threat or a consequence of our actions that we would jeopardise the principle of legal continuity in such an international legal matter, this could also mean abandoning the issue of occupation damage in a possible context of international law. Consequently, questions about how the border line has been organised and what the consequences of the illegal occupation of the Republic of Estonia between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia, the successor of the Soviet Union, would be very wrong to commit. It is therefore extremely important that Parliament also state very clearly that the question concerns the crossing of the border line and does not concern the principle of legal consistency. This was also a fact that we considered a good questioner to have recalled the previous government and foreign minister as a separate text, as an explanatory memorandum to the position of the Government of the Republic. I believe that this is a principle that must be guided unconditionally when dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U32	Honourable Riigikogu! In the case of enquiries, the question must be prepared in plenary with special care and love, because there is only one of them. So I'm sorry, Mr. Põllamaas and Mart Helme! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U33	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I may have missed something of your response, but maybe you can repeat the answer to the third question, which concerns the continuation of this issue in the context of a direct communication and cooperation protocol with Russia by the Prime Minister's party. There have also been repeated criticisms from Russia, through the mouth of Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. He has received messages that the Estonian side is using an unacceptable and unfriendly tone, trying to continue to claim damages for the damage to the occupation. If Sergei Lavrov's home party has a direct link with our current Prime Minister's party, how will this affect the continuation of this subject? How much does this restrict your own work in dealing with this subject further?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U34	Thank you. The Government of the Republic of Estonia and its members have sworn allegiance to the Republic of Estonia and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The state of the Republic of Estonia operates on the basis of legal continuity. The Government of the Republic of Estonia serves the interests of the Estonian state and the people. There can be no conflict of any kind here, I suppose, no member of the government, let alone my actions. We serve the country of Estonia, I operate in this area of competence, for which my oath as Minister of Justice obliges me, and I also deal with repression and other legal matters. If the question is, has anyone tried to narrow down my actions in dealing with these questions around the corner, no matter what motives or motivations may be attributed to it, my answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U35	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U36	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Since the occupation was and is a reality, there is probably no doubt about it, and injustice must be corrected. My question is this: how do you assess the reality and the temporal dimension or the temporal reality of repairing damage by the Russian Federation from the point of view of international law and its implementation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U37	Thank you. This is a very correct and fundamental question. It would be a fool to claim or create an illusion here for the people's representation that I know a secret about how to discover oil and become rich, that it's only enough to file one document or invoice on A4 and then we get rich somehow. But I would also like to put this issue in a moral perspective. In other words, keeping track of the injustices caused in the past and abandoning the claim to remedy it unilaterally cannot be expressed in money. Perhaps, figuratively speaking, I am asking the other way: if the Russian Federation were willing to pay us some kind of sum of money, the sum of x, if we were to say that there was no occupation, we all volunteered to fly flags into the Soviet Union, would we accept this offer? I don't think there's a person in this room who would say we'd accept it. Consequently, the principles in these matters cannot be expressed in money. Why is dealing with these issues important both in view of the past and of the future? Here I would like to highlight five arguments from Dr Dainius Zhalimas, President of the Lithuanian Constitutional Court. He touched on this questionnaire in his in-depth analysis, while being realistic about the practical output in the nearest human perspective. Firstly, the treatment of a well-founded claim for compensation contains a warning example for the entire international community in order to prevent similar crimes from being committed. Secondly, victims of the crimes committed by the Soviet occupation regime must be given at least symbolic justice and moral satisfaction and must be guaranteed full protection of their dignity. Thirdly, historical memory and historical truth must be preserved, especially at a time when attempts are being made in Russia to reconstruct history and question the legitimacy of the restoration of the independence of the Baltic States. Moreover, responsibility is a prerequisite for international sincere bilateral relations. Speaking of the possibility of compensation in all abstract categories, we must also not forget how we envisage, not in the long term, bilateral relations, which should be based on mutual trust and sincerity. Responsibility for relations between people and countries is one of its preconditions. Fifthly, Dr Zhalimas points out an important fact or opportunity to confirm that the state is following the principles of the rule of law and law and appreciates the important values of today's democratic world. This is also a question from a possible human perspective of the Russian Federation, i.e. that it is able to bear in mind the above principles and express it in its own way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U38	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Will the panel of experts you set up also be involved in compensating the assets that are now on the Russian side of the baseline?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U40	Thank you. Of course, these issues cannot be viewed separately. Whether a year or a half ago, some people approached the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs with a question concerning the legal regime of property and property beyond the control line. The Ministry of Justice has carried out an in-depth analysis of this issue. In fact, the claims of these persons are just as legitimate as they are in relation to the material damage they have suffered personally. So, as I emphasised, our legal platform must be comprehensive, not selective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U42	Good manager! Good minister! How many people do you have in the government to ask a neighbouring country to compensate for the occupation damage, or are you a white crow there? Have you and your Russian colleague in any way shared any ideas about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U43	Thank you. I have not had any bilateral negotiations with the Minister of Justice of the Russian Federation. It is clear that countries are still operating on this issue, which concerns possible steps under international law, through the government and those institutions that are implementing government policy. However, as regards how popular this issue is, how much interest it is in dealing with these issues, I am pleased that the concrete steps we have agreed in the government show that these issues are important to this government. Firstly, the creation of a centre on the crimes of international communist regimes, an issue which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Another important issue for remembering the past and showing respect for the victims is the work of establishing a memorial for the victims of communism in Maarjamäe. People deserve respect, victims deserve to be remembered. All these fundamental issues must still be governed by the rule of law and the principle of legal consistency. In my opinion, no one in the Republic of Estonia has a mandate to challenge or question these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U44	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U45	The following question is submitted by Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U46	Dear Chairman, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Our request for information relates to the results of the Estonian brand competition that was published relatively recently. The Enterprise Estonia announced that on Friday 13 January, including the promotional materials costing nearly 200,000 euros, it should help to introduce Estonia to the world. The template called the vomit hedgehog among the people and the so-called toolbox for Estonian entrepreneurs have received acute criticism in the public and have raised the issue of yet another breakdown of the EAS brand search. In this regard, we have seven questions. Since the minister is going to read the questions anyway, I'm not going to repeat them here. I will give the floor to the Minister, so that he can answer our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U47	Please, Minister Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U48	No, I won't! I give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U49	I won't argue with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U50	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for taking the trouble and asking. First, I'm going to read the questions, like they said before. Question number one: "What was the assignment given to brand makers, and does the result correspond to the assignment given? ' The task for the Estonian design team was to create the visual identity and typeface of the Estonian brand, which would last for at least 15 to 20 years, and the virtual service environment of the Estonian brand, bearing in mind in particular the five most important target groups: exporters, including cultural exporters, companies involving foreign investments, including start-up sector, tourism companies, the public sector and the so-called physical and virtual gates of Estonia. We also call the gate entry to, for example, the airport or port. These were the categories for which this visual identity was developed, and these sectors also had this desire. I dare say that the result achieved today corresponds to a given task. We have a central Estonian story, Estonia's unique font. We have a virtual service environment called estonia.ee just there are stories and messages about Estonia and brand.estonia.ee, where you can find the brand guide and where you can also download the media bank, presentations and photobank. I must explain here why I have stressed that, with regard to the work done today, it can be said that yes, it has achieved its goal, even though it is an endless process and these websites or environments are constantly being supplemented. Indeed, if in mid-January the presentation of this brand or the presentation of virtual environments was done in a bit of a hurry. I mean, the idea was good in every way, but the realization had not yet been achieved so far that the contents of the idea would have come right up when the virtual environments were opened. A lot of work has been done now. If you are going, ladies and gentlemen, to these environments it is then estonia.ee or brand.estonia.ee, you will see that there are indeed a zillion tools that can be used. Of course, figuratively speaking, there are a zillion tools, but there are really many of them, since there is a photo bank, there are videos about Estonia, there are facts about Estonia, there are PowerPoint presentations about Estonia, there are funny facts about Estonia, etc. For example, if an entrepreneur wants to go to a presentation with his foreign partner, he will be able to download and use the material that is suitable for him from this environment. It does not have to do this, there is no obligation, but it has the opportunity and this opportunity has been sought by economic operators. I also remember from the time I worked in the private sector that since I worked for an international company, it was often necessary to introduce my business to foreign colleagues. I always started introducing Estonia, because unfortunately we are not the United States or Great Britain, our country needs constant demonstration. I was very sorry that I had nowhere to take this material that I had already prepared, but I always had to come up with something and pick it up. But if entrepreneurs use things the same way, tell the same story, it actually makes us all bigger than we're telling the same story. Once again, no one is obliged to use this material, but this is an opportunity. I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to show these environments with these inputs here today. I made a presentation and thought I'd click here and show you how this or another website opens with its inputs. Unfortunately, the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu do not allow PowerPoint's presentation to be conducted in the context of an inquiry. As a result, I have a request for everyone. I know that in many factions the EAS brand team has already visited and introduced this work. There are also factions where they have not yet been, because there is no need for this. Happy members of the Riigikogu from the EKRE! I really recommend: take and listen to the members of the EAS brand team! You'll get a better report than I can do right now because I can't show you anything visually. All you have to do is take my word for it. But I stress that this work will continue and these pages will be updated all the time, this work will never end. As soon as feedback from economic operators is received that something is missing or needs to be done differently, it will be done. Continuous cooperation with business is ongoing. The second question: 'The wider public has expressed a clear dissatisfaction with Estonia's new brand. Are you satisfied with the new brand and concept? " As many people as there are, there are different opinions. We are a democratic country, and I hope that will remain so. I think the new brand concept is long-term, distinct, dynamic, fast and easy to develop. The authors of this concept are Estonia's best designers and creative forces from competing agencies. The third question: 'What do you estimate the cost of the project (200000 euros) and the quality ratio? " For this money, EAS organized a total of nine workshops in 2015, involving nearly 400 people. Of course, organizational work, room rental, tea and coffee, etc. will also take some resources. In addition, if the national sign competition failed last year, the Estonian Design team created for this purpose continued to renew the country's image. It may indeed be said that at first the task had been misunderstood or misunderstood, because it was as if the Estonian brand was again being sought. I stress that one thing such as the Estonian brand cannot be found. We are so different, and we have so many wonderful things that there is no one. There is no brand in what was finally done, but there is a toolbox with different options that entrepreneurs can use in their choice. As for the vomity hedgehog that Mr. Talked about earlier and that has been spoken about in the media, I think that sometimes something can go wrong, as they say, a lot happens to the doer. Here was the story that when the PR event was held in mid-January and the journalists were invited to present this toolbox, whatever reason it had occurred to anyone to send out a picture of a boulder that was not a brand. It's just a design element. As I said, unfortunately, I can't show you slides, but there's such a chance in PowerPoint that you can write something on the images of the boulder on the slide. But you can't use it, it's just one chance. This is definitely not an Estonian brand. Estonian brand doesn't exist, it wasn't even sought. But unfortunately, because of the P.R.'s mistake, the public had such an impression at first. So, I'll come back to the answer. Last summer, a design team was set up to put this toolbox together. This team had a different number of top designers at different times, whose salary was EUR 110000. In addition, last year a public procurement took place to create a unique font for Estonia to use the same type of letter when, for example, the state authorities present PowerPoint or print publications and marketing materials. Its total cost was EUR 47880. The procurement was won by Khork OÜ. Given that the average cost of creating a single web is EUR 50000 and the cost of creating a single unique font in Europe is a minimum of EUR 100000, the cost/quality ratio of the project is good at EUR 200000, taking into account the volume and intensity of the entire work. I would remind you that the Estonian brand 'Welcome to Estonia', created in 2002, cost more than EUR 830000 and we really only received one sign. We didn't want to repeat that mistake, and we didn't repeat it. Question 4: "A public figure in Estonia expressed his sincere satisfaction in the social media that the new concept lacks 'Rockflower-crushed national romance'. Was ignoring the national symbols so far an official and purposeful policy of creating Estonia's image? " Our uniqueness is no longer purely cultural contrasts and traditions, but we have something unique to offer to the world. Estonia's main image or success story, by which we are known, has become e-Estonia and digital society in general, e-residency, successful start-up sector, e-elections etc. The updated visual identity highlights this success story. In addition, we now need to contribute more than ever to the development of digital solutions and opportunities. If one of our success stories is e-Estonia, then the way we talk about it should also be more innovative and smarter. For example, the colours of the new brand have been chosen precisely on the basis of digital channels. To stand out and be visible there, one of Estonia's three key messages is a unique digital society and the whole brand service is digital and constantly renewed. Question 5: "How much do you appreciate the ability of the new brand concept to boost the uniqueness and competitive advantages of Estonia in the world? " The success or failure of the EAS in implementing this service environment is demonstrated only by time. The first summary will be made at the end of this year. Given the very high level of interest of businesses today, there is reason to believe that there will be at least a few hundred brand toolbox users by the end of this year. So once again: success we can only measure if people use this environment. And here, in turn, we can help by introducing this toolbox in our presentations, in our marketing channels, by the state companies and ministries, I know that the airport and port are already fixing their gates. The private sector is also trained and presented in this toolbox. Must be ready to use it because the interest was great, the order came from the private sector. The current signs and trends are positive. You asked about the implementers. I can give you some examples. First brand implementers: Simple Session, BioFach Fair, Touresti Fair, Otepää MK Phase, Balteco Frankfurt Fair and the German Market Catalogue, International Campaign of the UN Security Council of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. The last, seventh question: 'The search for the Estonian brand has been accompanied by acute criticism before; the previous project was officially declared a failure. Is it also intended that bending the whole country under one brand may be wrong as a starting point and that the same money could help Estonian entrepreneurs in other ways? ' Once again, the previous project was indeed a self - destructive decision, because one sign cannot be placed in the country. At the same time, we need a common image system today that will help to increase Estonia's awareness systematically and help our entrepreneurs. The new toolbox takes into account all the most important areas and contains not only the material that introduces Estonia but also the main messages for different areas. The task set already described set out five major target groups to be able to take advantage of the applications created for the development of their field. I would remind you that these were exporters, including cultural exporters, foreign investment companies, including the start-up sector, tourism companies, the public sector and the physical and virtual gates of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U51	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Your predecessor, Mrs Oviir, came here in May to answer a rather analogous questioning by members of the Free Party. The topic at the time was about burning money in the competitions for the Estonian mark, where the sign could not be found. Why, though, is it that people who handle a major public relations task constantly fail in public relations themselves? It's actually very sad. You said the starting point was wrong. Welcome to Estonia cost more than EUR 800000. It is not a very good comfort that now the amounts are lower. Who is responsible for these wrong decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U53	First of all, this EUR 200000, which has been invested in this project, also contains the present result, which can be welcomed. Yes, in the middle of last year, the task was reworded and the search for the brand stopped. Instead, the toolbox was turned on, which was the right decision. Exactly how much was spent before that, it's hard for me to say, but all the expenses are in the 200,000. I would say that later has been very optimal, because if you look at these websites and what there are videos, a photo bank, a typeface, they are not cheap jobs. In the end, I think that this is quite an optimal cost of EUR 200000. The first part of your question was why the PR people themselves are screwing up. Really, sometimes I wonder why a shoemaker doesn't have shoes. The fact that, in mid-January, before the presentation, these boulders, which began to live their lives and were taken as a brand that was not intended to be developed and which did not exist, were obviously a mistake of PR. People have also regretted it and realized their mistake, but it happened. I don't know what else to say about this right now. It didn't really hurt the toolbox. The quality of the toolbox remained the same and the content remained the same. It did damage to this originally good work of communication. Now we have to explain more and more because communication went wrong. But the maker's gonna get what I can tell him. If you don't do anything, it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U54	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U55	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! It is also clear from your own answers that the brand is not really a brand. Why hasn't it been possible to explain what a brand is? When this order was placed on EAS, it was said that no brand is actually wanted, but we are creating a brand during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Why are you talking about brandy? And I see that on this same page brand.estonia.ee has not even been able to make Estonians understand what is being achieved. Why aren't these pages in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U56	Thank you. This brand is like image, we're talking image. You can also put an image.ee. What image we display to Estonia, there are many opportunities, because we do not have one thing. My question was exactly the same as I met this team at the end of December, just before the end of the year. I asked them what language they were going to do it in. At the time, the paper was only in English. I said that this was not going to happen, it must certainly be available in Estonian and Russian as well. And if we have strength and strength in the future, we can consider other languages of the world in the future, such as German or French, but in the first stage it should certainly be available in Estonian and Russian. We have agreed that it must be available in Estonian... I may be wrong now, but I thought it was available in Estonian at the end of March and in Russian at the end of April, or vice versa. That's why I'm gonna turn it down. My point was the same: we cannot only market our country outside. If our people understand the proposals to market their country, accept it internally, it will be easier to send out this image. We have to embrace it first. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is quite difficult to understand in your presentation that at one point there is a brand and at another there is no brand. As I understand it, 'Welcome to Estonia' was like a single sign that was used in a lot of places. Now I understand that it will be removed from airports and ports and replaced by a brand that does not seem to exist. Is all the confusion around this brand and mark caused by the lack of organisation of work? In this light, how are the principles of "Organic Estonia', which I believe have been endorsed by principle, developed in the government office, which concern the image of Estonia as a organic state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U59	Thank you. The way the gate is designed is the decision of the gate designers themselves, but they use the toolbox to do this, starting from the fact that the font is secure and ending with the messages that are more. I can't tell you which route the Port of Tallinn or Tallinn Airport will choose exactly, for example, but they will choose from among the options offered. As far as I am aware, the use of Welcome to Estonia is not prohibited; it may continue. I just want to say that one message, a single sign, isn't worth looking for in this toolbox, and I think it's a good thing. But speaking of the "Organic Estonia" program, it's definitely part of our image. When you go to the websites I mentioned here (brand.estonia.ee or even estonia.ee), one thing is how Estonia is shown, how we show our country to ourselves and beyond is pure nature, it is in our image. If we continue to develop the theme 'Organic Estonia', this will only amplify today's toolbox, according to which one of Estonia's peculiarities is pure nature. Speaking of the cabinet session, yes, the Minister for Agriculture was tasked with calling a working group to decide how to proceed with this issue. The obstacles to the development of "Organic Estonia" must be clarified, and then steps can also be taken to remove these obstacles and what kind of marketing to do. This is currently the responsibility of the Minister for Agriculture, and I am happy to cooperate with him. And when it comes to marketing, it's certainly possible for EAS to contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U60	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You said very rightly: in order for this toolbox to be used, it should also be made close and understandable to the people of Estonia. What are, as you know, the steps that will be taken along this road? The second question right here. What options do you see for further application of this unique font? It's been developed, it's something unique, but how can entrepreneurs use it in concrete terms now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U62	Thank you. The first thing we can do to make it clear to our people is make it Estonian. It's working, I can assure you, and will be done in the coming months. Now the second part of the question. I don't have it with me right now, but EAS has shown me a very long seminar-training plan. During training, they tell entrepreneurs about this toolbox, introduce them, answer questions and listen to feedback. We do this work all the time. Speaking of font, I can give you examples myself. If I go somewhere to perform, I will not use it myself, and I have also advised my colleagues not to use any background other than this new one. If we don't use it ourselves, the country won't use it, the others won't. Businesses are able to use it and sometimes feedback has been received that some things are difficult to reach, etc. But the job's on and, like I said, it's an endless job. If something doesn't work as it should, it's not user-friendly, it has to be made that way. Feedback shall be requested, taken into account and continuously updated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U63	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U64	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! First of all, since we are really not allowed to use the PowerPoint technique here, maybe we could use the so-called paperpoint, then maybe the rules will be rethinked, e-Estonia still. But the question is that I read the news today that you want to bring 2000 IT specialists from Ukraine to Estonia. How do you use this toolbox to bring these IT men and women here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U65	Thank you. I presented an e-enhancing plan for the next few years at the Ministry of Economic Affairs today. Indeed, the current government union has allocated EUR 10 million each year from next year to do e-enhancing. We have achieved a great deal, but much remains to be done, and if we fall asleep, other countries will pass us quickly. Nobody sleeps, and everyone's making an effort. In the case of e-enhancing, there are a lot of nuances and projects that we want to carry out in this context, but when we meet representatives of the ICT sector, employers, the first of the various problems is often the lack of ICT labour. There are two ways to tackle labour shortages in parallel. One is that we train people in Estonia. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, this new programme also provides that by 2020, we will train about 4,000 people. There are various programmes, there are training courses where people are given basic ICT skills. We know that no matter what profession someone has learned, more and more needs to be able to make better use of ICT opportunities in order to cope with their profession today and more tomorrow. To this end, we are ready to train current employees for entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we are also prepared to train those who are ready to come and study as programmers in a literal sense, because the shortage of programmers is very high. The ICT sector itself says that there is an immediate need for some 7 000. Of course, they are trained at Tallinn University and the University of Tartu, but this is not enough. On the one hand, there are limited learning opportunities and the number of teaching staff, but also the number of people who are willing to study as programmers is limited. We're still a small country. So what do we do? One way is to attract people from outside the European Union who are already ready for programmers or data controllers. It's not that simple. We might think everyone wants to come here. Yes, the image of e-Estonia helps to arouse interest. But that's not enough. We need to think that when people come to work here, whether they have a kindergarten place for children, whether they can get the health insurance business in order, whether there is one online environment, where they can have all the bureaucratic procedures done, etc. To this end, we will set up, by analogy, a working group for the e-residency group to deal with these issues. If you ask us how we can use the current toolbox, I will answer very simply: we are working with EAS who has the Work in Estonia programme to attract 2,000 IT specialists here. This is a marketing programme in itself, and Estonia is being marketed in the chosen destination country to come and do this or another job for us. One part of this marketing programme is the online environment to which the campaign is asked to go. We can make this online environment one that already takes into account all these tools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U66	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U67	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I don't know what to say now. The first quick question: please give examples of other Member States of the European Union where a similar scheme has been implemented, where such boxes, together with various mechanisms, have been created for businesses. When it comes to examples, we know that such a thing has been implemented in Germany. Whether it's a boulder or something else. Please bring me a list, because I assume we're not the first inventors in this area. Secondly, as far as language is concerned, everything is available in English. The question is why the Estonian website is not a priority. And the second question: who is lying, EAS, the Estonian Design Team or you? The press release on the 13th of January on the website of EAS states nicely: by the end of February, both websites will also be available in Estonian and Russian. It's March 6th.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U68	Thank you. There were now so many questions. I will try to respond in turn, and I hope that nothing will go unnoticed. As far as other countries are concerned, a toolbox or a developed identity that businesses can use, and a certain font is very common. There's nothing special about that. And I'd say, even if it wasn't normal, we want to be such a smart, forward-looking country. No matter how much we like to think that everyone knows and knows us, knows our strengths and what we feel good about, this is not the case in reality. We have to do more, we have to market more. And it makes our message stronger when we speak one language. It's just the way it is. This toolbox gives us an opportunity to speak one language, not an obligation. No one can say that the state is ordering this or the other. On the contrary, it is simply an opportunity, and I would like to emphasise once again that this request came from businesses. It didn't come from some bureaucrat sitting in office quiet, it came from entrepreneurs. They said they were going to the fair, they were making a catalogue of foreign languages, they needed a presentation, but they would also like to talk about Estonia. They asked if they could make a toolbox for help. I really recommend that you, ladies and gentlemen of the EKRE, invite this EAS team over. Let them come talk and show you these tool boxes. You'll find some pretty nice things in the form of videos and presentations. We can make fun of ourselves. There's a show like this, if you want to show me. There are serious things there, there is something for every industrial sector, if someone wants to talk about the machinery, for example. And all of this isn't finished yet. It's going to be completed in a row. Why wasn't Estonian first? I think it was not because it was primarily meant to market outside Estonia, and unfortunately the great world cannot understand our language, our secret language, we can only understand it ourselves. So when you market outside, you have to speak English. But as I said before, Estonian is coming. It must have been a bit ahead of time, when it was promised by the end of February, they were too optimistic. Now we're talking about the end of March. I don't think this one month here or there will make a big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U69	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U70	Good Chairman! Good minister! I agree that the country must be marketed and the country must have great signs, etc. But if you look at this process, it looks a little bit backwards-Antslana. If you're carrying a comparison with a company, it's meant to be the name and logo of the company, not what it's going to do directly. On the other hand, it seems to me that EAS would have had a number of projects, which are substantive projects, and which could also have a'signal' meaning, such as 'Organic Estonia' and some IT projects. If you put them together, you'd get one badge. Don't you think they started off like they did wrong? There should be content first and then a sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U71	Thank you. I don't think so. I would stress that it was quite rushed to make it public, I must say that. When I was told, as a fresh minister, about this concept just before the end of the year and showed me what the plans were and what everything should look like, I was very careful at first that I didn't know what was coming from there. It had been a mess for years, and in the meantime, it had gone wrong. But when I saw the concept and the content, and I was told what they wanted to do, I said as a former entrepreneur that yes, I feel that it is what is needed. If I were the entrepreneur, I'd say very good, I need it, I can use it. But when three weeks later this public presentation was made, I admit that I had not come up with it either, that by then the image had not yet been filled with sufficient content. What was allowed to be done three weeks earlier was not reached to the extent that it had already been uploaded to these websites. It was a shock for me, too. Shock is a lot to say, but an unpleasant surprise for me, too. Of course, after that, I talked to the team immediately, and we agreed on a very fast action plan that they would bring their affairs to an end quickly. As has already been said, this is a continuous process, but to the end that these instruments would really be usable, so that if an entrepreneur goes to the website, he can already get everything that is allowed from there. And when it's done, the makers will go and introduce it, including here in the Riigikogu. I do not know whether the Free Party Group has succeeded in meeting them. I'm gonna check it out right now... I don't think so. Most political groups have been spoken to. I know that the Group of the IRL, the SDE and the Centre Party has met and shown what I would have liked to show you today. But yes, the Free Party and the EKRE have not found a way. I suggest you meet! This is a benevolent meeting, you get a lot of information and you can also give feedback to the people who are implementing this project. But when it comes to the "Organic Estonia" program, it can be added later, because the theme of pure nature is strongly embedded there as one of the messages of the Estonian image, it only strengthens the whole project. All of this can be done. This is not the kind of thing that was done, and now everything is, it will live its life with Estonia and be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U72	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd pick on that language thing a little bit. It is not at all that, by chance, English is here above. I ran a yellow light over the intersection relatively recently, and the police stopped and fined it. And what did I read? The first language is English, the second language is Russian, and only on the lower strip is the third, modest, rejected cuisine language, which may be read, written and spoken by a local Aborigine. This is a public policy on which our party is not going to show tolerance. The official language of Estonia is Estonian. The question that concerns a specific subject is this: to whom is all of this specifically intended for the domestic consumer or the external consumer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U74	Thank you. Mr Helme, I very much agree with you that we must protect the Estonian language in Estonia and use it ourselves. Public enterprises, organisations and ministries must set an example here. When I worked right here in the Committee on Economic Affairs in the Riigikogu, there was, for example, a case where representatives of a state institution came and told us about their plans and summaries. And this presentation was almost entirely in English. Although I understood that, I did make a comment and said that it was not okay when one public authority comes to give a presentation to another and it does so in English. I guess it was convenient for them to take some old showcase that had been shown to foreigners. It was not respectful or correct in every way. We have to notice that, point it out, we must not tolerate it. I agree with you. When we talk about Estonian brand, once again: the Estonian text comes. After all, it is a question of taste whether it should have been in Estonian and then in English. Maybe it would. That would have made it easier for the Estonian people to understand. I think you're right, maybe you would. But the important thing is that with a few months' delay, it's gonna come because I pointed it out. Who's he meant for? In particular, Estonian people, Estonian entrepreneurs, so that they can tell the story of Estonia to their partners abroad, but also to themselves. It's meant for us. The other side of the matter: since this website is available and introducing Estonia, it can also be viewed by potential jobseekers living outside Estonia or by people who want to come here as tourists or who want to cooperate here. They can go to this website in the same way. They can watch us show ourselves as Estonians, which are our strengths and weaknesses. So it's both ways, but of course it's for us first and foremost so we can tell a story.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U75	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The latest news is that China is already the world's first-largest economy, and growth is still 6 to 7% per year. Would you express some thought and opinion as to whether our representative in Shanghai has been removed from this fine box is correct in the present situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U77	Thank you. As far as I know, EAS recently opened a new office in China and a new person also works there. I may be indebted to the answer, whether it was Shanghai or some other town, but I remember there was a press release recently. Estonia should certainly be represented in China.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U78	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U79	Thank you. This toolbox has not been introduced in the EKRE Group, yes. But I have seen it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I must say that no member of the Commission who was present was impressed with any kind of enthusiasm or understanding that this would be an excellent thing, on the contrary. When we are talking about advertising and Estonia's introduction, the topic should still be to highlight Estonia in a positive and positive way, but the box contains a wide range of negative things about Estonia. I do not understand how this negative advertising helps to show that we are innovative, smart and looking forward. I only remember one negative ad, and it was during the Soviet era when Harry Egypt made the ad 'Don't eat the whey cheese! '.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U80	Now, a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U81	The question was.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U82	I think I got the question. Did I say it was great? I certainly wouldn't use that word. I don't remember saying it like that, but when I said it, I didn't think it was great, but it was good. This direction, which has been taken, is right in my eyes, it helps entrepreneurs. But as I said, there is room for improvement, it is a continuous work to make things better, to supplement, it is growing with Estonia's development. It's endless work, but I think it's good to move on from what we've done. Why are there negative facts? It's written in English fun facts, funny facts. The question is whether it's funny or not. If you take them apart, it really does point out that we have, for example, the biggest pay gap in the Member States of the European Union, and then there are such funny cartoons next to it. Troublesome places are like a joke. It's really a matter of taste now. If we have the leftover self-irony, if we know what our weaknesses are, then I think that any problems can only be solved so that we acknowledge these problems to ourselves. Then you can also look behind the action plan for them, etc. Referring to them shows that we have acknowledged that alongside the good things highlighted in the second presentation, we have these bottlenecks and we are dealing with them. We've really brought them out. It's a matter of taste if we should do it. It wasn't a minister's arrangement, far from it, it was made up of this design team, and it seemed to me that self-irony itself was never bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U83	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was away from the hall for a while, so once I've been asked, I'm sorry to repeat the question. Alongside this brand came the Finnish Saku Tuominen, who spoke of the next decade. His question was also how to sell Estonia, and he suggested that one creative leader, the so-called creative leader, be hired to Estonia. What do you think of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U85	Maybe I'm not really sensing the core of this idea, I'm not familiar with it. If it's just a question, I can answer that one person will never solve the problems. There is no superhuman who can fix everything. I believe in a more broad agreement and teamwork. The fact that there will be one superhuman and then Estonia will be marketed or sold... I don't believe in simple solutions like that. But maybe I don't know what the whole idea is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U86	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Secretary! Colleagues! There's been a lot of talk here today about the toolbox. I recently broke an old home machine. But since I'm such a very modest person, I took my toolbox and disassembled this household appliance. There was a lot of bolts, screws, walls, and all that stuff. I had all kinds of tools in the toolbox that needed screwdrivers, tweezers, tanks, hammers, whatever it took. However, I am not very sure that this toolbox that is being offered to us today contains all the tools necessary to sell Estonia, to introduce Estonia, to promote Estonia. What do I mean by that? Above all, that we actually have symbols, we have a brand to present in the world. These are our flag, our coat of arms, our anthem, our national bird, our national fish, our national tree. It's all there. Trying to push them all into some kind of green color spot, I don't call it a uglier word. Trying to replace them all with some kind of writing is very bureaucratic, and I do not think it will work. Now, if we look at these trials, the rebranding tests, we can say that offworld, they have actually failed. 'Welcome to Estonia! " It didn't work properly, even though it was put up at the airport and some other places. It was even printed on T-shirts, but it was still a stranger to the people. Probably because it was a foreign language. Here is the same question as the target group that I touched on in my question: who is it intended for? I got the answer, but I'm not so sure it's an exhaustive answer in practical terms, if you understand me correctly. I have also dealt with an economic business area such as tourism, and I have come to a very clear understanding during some 15 years of activity that we actually have very little to sell in Estonia. If I compare Estonia with, for example, Italy, Great Britain or Germany, then we have almost nothing to resist the historical stratification that is there. Some cute country churches, some nice manors, some other objects besides the Old Town of Tallinn, it is not at all comparable to what you can look at in Western Europe. But a tax-intensive tourist comes to us mostly from there. So what are we gonna sell them? It is clear what we sell in tourism and local peculiarities. It's the same cornflower-crushed national romance we're selling. We don't sell this green color spot, we don't sell 'Welcome to Estonia! '. We sell pure nature. Hundreds and hundreds, perhaps thousands of tourists from England, Germany, the Netherlands and many other countries, who have come specifically to the Matsalu National Park to observe birds that simply do not exist in Western Europe, have been visiting me for years, partly because of climatic reasons, partly because of urbanisation. They come here, and I've offered them dinner. Often, however, they see a bird in my park, and instead of coming to eat, they stare for an hour at that bird, take pictures, and write in their notebooks what they saw, where they saw what kind of bird it was, whether it was nesting, whether it was flying, whether it had a partner, etc. This is see 'Welcome to Estonia! '. That's what they're interested in. And when I offer them my homemade drink... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U88	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U89	...then it goes like a heater, because it can't be from any store, it can only be from me. And when they go to another place, they get there no local peculiarities... It's a place to think. I don't want to criticize right now that it's all failed or that it's all a puking frog and it's no good. But practice is a criterion of truth and I think that certain conclusions should be drawn here. Now. We have an excellent institution called Enterprise Development Foundation. But I'm telling you that this Enterprise Development Foundation has seriously damaged its credibility with the failed brand campaigns, and even more so with the scandals of the Ex-President Ärma. I have a proposal for the Minister to discuss how to restore the credibility of this institution, so as to avoid any further failure in the area of its work. It is not just a matter of one authority; it is also very clearly a matter of national success and of the credibility of our country. These are the thoughts I had when I listened to the answers to the question. Thanks for the answers. The answers were sincere, some places may not have been quite satisfactory, but thank you in general!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U90	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U91	Good Chairman! Good minister! It may be a good place to admit that 'Welcome to Estonia! 'Clips were made by me and my team. Now you can throw rotting tomatoes to death if you want, but I have to say that making those clips was a great pleasure. These differed 'Welcome to Estonia! ' The mark was quite high, and these clips were also appreciated abroad. On the other hand, I am a man whose country home has a boulder on the yard, and indeed, my guests enjoy this boulder and take pictures whenever this opportunity is possible. On the third hand, I have also dealt with tourism, namely bringing Japanese tourists to Estonia, and I know a little about what people want from Estonia from a distance. Regrettably, Estonia is at the top of the list of cheap tourist destinations in Europe, at least for very distant countries. We can make any kind of sign that's external and that we can put in our chest, but the question is content. The question is how to take Estonia as a tourist country or how to take Estonia as a country to a "second level" so that it is not treated as a cheap tourist country. Therefore, I think that this brand, although it certainly involved very strong brand experts and good artists, started off at the wrong end, again started off at the wrong end. Just as I said on my question, it gives me the impression that you're starting a company with some company, but the most important and most important thing is to think about this company and make a logo and then start discussing what this company is doing. Why am I talking about this? Because an excellent idea such as 'Organic Estonia' came into being in one of the EAS competitions. It is basically saying that Estonia could declare itself perhaps the first country in the world where more than half of its territory is a so-called "cool territory." This would be a very big argument for pure nature's sales and not a cheap selling argument, but also a very 'price-enhancing' argument. It's not just making a boulder-log. I am very sorry that this path has not been followed, but that there have been some parallel activities, and in the end it is said that, well, 'Organic Estonia' could be put in the so-called toolbox. On the other hand, there has certainly been a lot of talk about Estonian IT awareness and attempts to sell it separately. If these two things were brought together, 'Organic Estonia' and Estonia as an IT-land, then the uniqueness or speciality of which Estonia could be known in the world would become known. Then we would no longer be a country of cheap tourism for tourists, nor any so-called cheap country, where people only go because there is cheap food here or because it is cheap to go to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U92	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the Minister does. Please, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to you soon to discuss the Free Party Group, and I will probably be able to talk about the current issue in this context, too, but I do think it is right that we do one thing before we open the next one. Mr Talvik's speech forced me to come back to this remote control. Artur Talvik said that we should do something to make Estonia a more prosperous tourist, that we are currently leading a group of tourists looking for cheap travel opportunities. Agreed. We really have a lot of tourists coming here because of the price level, not staying here, or if they're staying, they're very price sensitive. But to make sure it doesn't sound like the wrong thing, I want to say that the Estonian state is doing a great deal in this area. When it comes to the new EAS action plan until 2020, the tourism sector will receive the most uncompetitive funding from the sectors, EUR 80 million. It is not just that money is given at random, but it is responsible for a great many activities that are particularly relevant to improving the competitiveness of our accommodation facilities, tourism companies. They will be helped from training to understand what to pay attention to, to the point that there are several open competitions that have just ended, it was organised for the creation of an all-Estonian family action centre. There will be some exciting things in the future, both in Saaremaa and Tallinn and throughout mainland Estonia. If we're talking about the fact that the current government has decided to clean up the city hall, the conference tourist will bring three times as much money here as a regular tourist. Three times as much! This is the tourist that we currently have few in Estonia, because we do not have international conferences, or if we do, relatively few and small, because we do not have the conditions. We're really working on it. My colleague has said the right thing, but since it has sounded like the state is doing nothing, I say that on the contrary, we know this problem and we are working to solve it. Speaking of how the toolbox started in the wrong direction, I repeat that the toolbox is not where there is all the pain in the world and what solves all the problems. The task of the toolbox is not to develop the 'Organic Estonia' program. The toolbox is to help entrepreneurs, the people of Estonia send a single message when we talk to each other and when we talk outside Estonia. Help, but don't make an obligation! That is why I would like to emphasise once again: if a programme is developed specifically to further develop 'Organic Estonia' and this plan is part of the theme of pure nature that exists in this toolbox. We can't expect one thing to lose all the pain in the world. We can still discuss. Thank you. I'll be back here soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U94	Artur Talvik, a member of the Riigikogu, feels touched because the minister named his name in his speech. He has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U95	I wanted to make it clear to the Minister that, above all, it is important to do some interesting thing at national level, as the 'Organic Estonia' programme provides for us to be the first country in the world to be more than 50% organic. That would be a pull mechanism in itself. Not that one sign should be involved in the "Organic Estonia" program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U96	Let us close this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U97	The authors of the next inquiry are Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru, Jüri Adams and Artur Talvik, who will also perform for us on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U98	Seven members of the Free Party Group have submitted a question to Minister Urve Palo, and this concerns the activities and future of the Enterprise Estonia. The Enterprise Estonia has been under public scrutiny in the very negative key, regrettably, for a long time. As a result, we have also put a number of questions here about what we would like to know from the Minister. We know that a new CEO was elected to EAS, who unfortunately also said in public that he was no longer looking back, as if he had erased history and was now starting to move on to a clean slate. It's probably not so easy, however, that it just goes on. But the questions are here, and I hope the minister will read them himself if he answers them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U99	Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U100	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your interest. I am happy to answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'What kind of assessment do you make of EAS' years of underperforming work in the search for an Estonian character, brand, slogan, etc.? ' I'm sorry if I repeat myself, but the two enquiries are relatively similar. The rules provide for a repeat. We really have to admit that the decision to announce a public competition to find the Estonian mark in 2015 was not professional and was thus amplified by the already overexploited need for the Estonian mark in the media. The sign competition reminded the public of the confusion and scandal that came with 'Welcome to Estonia! ' by introducing the mark in 2002. Ka 'Welcome to Estonia! During the creation of the sign, the problem was that the main focus became a sign, not all the great work that really needed to be done to raise Estonia's reputation. In July 2016, a new comprehensive task statement was prepared for the Estonian Design Team, now for the development of the brand. This task statement no longer included the creation of a sign or slogan. The task setting was an open process. Representatives from several sectors were involved, and feedback from the parties was collected every month. The 'Estonian Republic 100' team, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Estonian Food Industry Association etc. participated. The aim was to find out if anything important was missing and whether the input given in the past was adequate. Representatives were expected to spread the word in their field, to spread the information to the widest possible target group, and we would receive more feedback, which would then be desired. The success or failure of EAS in implementing this service environment now shows only time, as I said earlier. The first summary will be made at the end of this year, but given the very high interest of entrepreneurs, there is a presumption that there will be at least a few hundred brand toolbox users by the end of the year. That's really a minimum set. In addition, we now have more than ever to contribute to the development of digital solutions and opportunities, I am looking at whether I am confusing anything, I already have a number of papers here. This means that we need to contribute more, so that the existing tools are easy to download and easy to use. Estonia.ee website will be completed by the end of March and will meet in three languages: Estonian, English and Russian. Brand.estonia.ee will be completed in three languages in April. Both pages of the page are one of this brand page and the other is an estonia.ee page, where general information about Estonia is available in three languages. One will be completed at the end of March and the other at the end of April. Question 2: 'How do you assess the activities of EAS in relation to the Ermamaa case? ' EAS has made mistakes in the processing of the Ermamaa project, which must be acknowledged both in 2012 and in 2016, when the 2012 decision was decided to direct execution without further analysis. In particular, the errors were due to the fact that the implementation of the project as a whole is different from the normal implementation of a project supported by the European Union. This was a unique situation when the beneficiary was not allowed to implement the plans due to its office, i.e. the constraints and tasks attached to the presidency. There has never been another case like this before, and I believe that now the EAS has enough wisdom that this will never happen again. The EAS has certainly learned from this case. We know that the former leader has also assumed responsibility. In the future, more counterparties, the managing authority, the implementing agency, will be involved in solving complex cases so that the analysis process underlying the decision can be restored at all times. In addition, further attention will be paid to the analysis and documentation of decisions. We know that it is very difficult to get the documents now, because the decisions made in 2012 are not properly documented. And when we talk about 2016, there were simply not enough parties involved, there were not enough analyses. It should be pointed out that the portfolio of projects supported by EAS has tens of thousands of projects and most of them have successfully achieved their objectives. It was an exceptional project and in this connection a decision that has never been similar. Hence the need for better organisation and documentation of more complex procedures. In the case of EU funds, the European Commission has set an acceptable error rate of 2% of costs. In EAS, for example, the error rate revealed by the audits last year was 0,002%, which is a very good result compared to other countries in the European Union. EAS will continue to do its utmost to keep the error limit low. Question 3: 'How do you estimate the internal use of EAS funds based on the example of the so-called flower watering budget? ' The total volume of a specific framework contract for a period of two years shall be up to EUR 30000. The service provider has actually entered into an agreement under a framework agreement for the provision of an internal landscaping service worth EUR 240. Although this is three times smaller than in previous years and it is as if a good result has been achieved, I have to admit as a minister, and I have also told the management of the EAS that it is necessary to consider what kind of service should be tendered out for. EAS may have carried out this procurement correctly and even saved money, but the question is whether a public authority should order a service that includes, among other things, the irrigation, transplanting and other maintenance. I'd say I don't. A private company can do what it wants, but if a public institution has too many flowers, it could reduce them a little and manage the maintenance itself. Although it was correct, money was even saved, the question remains whether money should be spent for this purpose at all. As a minister, I have said my position to EAS. Question 4: 'What has been the role and responsibility of the members of the EAS Board for the above examples? ' The Council plans the activities of the Foundation, organises its management and supervises the activities of the Foundation. The Governing Council has carried out its activities in general with due care. Such procurement does not really fall within the competence of the Council; it is too small. I'd say it's a matter of management culture. In the case of the above examples, the EAS Board has a supervisory role in particular and issues related to important risks have been addressed at the Governing Council meeting. The Governing Board shall report to the Council and shall respond to requests from the members of the Governing Council. In the case of processing of the Ermamaa project, the Supervisory Board commissioned an audit and has addressed this issue in order to ensure adequate supervision and prevent similar risks from occurring in the future. Question 5: "How do you explain the EAS' wasteful use of money and opaque handling to businesses whose activities and expenditure documents are checked with embarrassing accuracy when receiving grants? What effect does this have on the morals of our society? ' As an implementation unit for EAS, it has generally done high-quality work, as shown by these small recovery percentages, compared to 2% on average in the European Union, the EAS had 0.02% last year. Therefore, it cannot be said that money is consistently recovered and errors are made. But, of course, if there's work done, there'll be mistakes. It's not possible to drive that percentage to zero. The EAS has developed a multi-level control system in which some controls are carried out by others. This increases bureaucracy, but on the other hand it gives the possibility that if some are wrong, others will discover this error. In addition, additional system and project audits are carried out by the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance, the internal audit unit of the EAS, ministries, the National Audit Office and the various institutions of the European Commission. Both the functioning of the EAS systems and individual projects are audited in the course of the audit. This is also the principle of using public money in other institutions. Question 6: "What are the intentions and proposals for restructuring the work of the EAS so that replacement activities, decisions that offend the public's sense of justice and the improper use of public money end? ' Here I can say that EAS has already started making changes. The aim of the amendments is to restructure the EAS in order to provide the best support for Estonian entrepreneurs. This is what the EAS has been called into life for. We are currently preparing innovations in both the EAS structure and the services provided by EAS to its customers. This means a change in the content of the services and a change in customer service. This means that in the future, the customer enters EAS from one window and gets all the help from it, i.e. he does not run between different entities. So it is planned that all grants will be placed under a single unit, which will make the process of applying for grants much clearer for customers. In summary, we will guide the EAS towards a clearer focus, where the emphasis is on quality of service. I believe that EAS must be a partner to the clients and be useful to them, so that the customers feel that it is a partner to them. This image or feeling can only be created by work. It's not like you have to feel. You get a feeling when you take your partner as an equal and get help from him. It will take time to redesign the management culture and in this way. This requires an increase in professionalism and the number of people with entrepreneurial experience must be increased in EAS. I am pleased that the new leader has come from the private sector, he has successfully run a number of companies, including international ones. I very much hope that he will bring about a new, modern management culture. There are a lot of good, competent employees in EAS, but eventually the organisation works as well as its head can and will manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U101	The first question to the Minister is asked by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for these answers. This somewhat unhappy story with the Estonian sign also highlighted such best intentions to show your country as intelligent, smart, flexible and sustainable. I think that's the way running the EAS is supposed to be. What are these concrete steps, however, that it will be like this? Leaders have been exchanged and exchanged with great hopes in the past. In side, one more question. Here the idea of moving to EAS Rakverre came through in the context of the move of state agencies. What is behind this, and what is your attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U103	Thank you. The new head of EAS will officially start working on 20 March. I've already met him, of course, because he comes in almost every day and gets acquainted with what's going on in the house. But more formal meetings will come later. I've already told him that the main thing I'm looking forward to is an increase in the quality of the management of EAS. Those who have worked as leaders understand very well what this means. I'm waiting for him to come to work and take a broad look around. After all, EAS has dozens and dozens of shredded, specialised activities. There are certainly some things that are reasonable and which should be continued in the same way. Some people may have to stop or do something different. The new driver gets the best picture every day when he's in the house. The minister has it much more complicated than that. I expect that if he's a little settled in, he'll come and talk about how this new, modern-day EAS might move forward, and we'll discuss it together. The most important is the customer and the customer is the entrepreneur. There wouldn't be an EAS if we didn't have entrepreneurs. An entrepreneur cannot be viewed as a cumbersome element but as a customer. It's elementary, there's no point in actually talking about it. But how substantial work will be reorganized, how this single window system will work, give it some time. I'd be happy to talk about this some time later, when I've had time to discuss it properly with this new leader. The aim is also to achieve this new manager knows that if, in three years' time, businesses are asked for an opinion on the EAS, they will respond positively, they will take a positive view of the EAS' activities. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. I was recently with entrepreneurs in Äripäev's discussion group, where an entrepreneur started to disown EAS, and the others came after me by the rafter. There were a lot of emotions, and the lazy people were wrong about everything, but right now they're popping at EAS. I said, hey, if we shut this place down tomorrow. Nobody wanted that. What I'm trying to say is there's a lot of untapped potential in EAS, a lot of opportunities, and he needs it. How are we going to reorganize? Give me a minute, the new leader will have to come with his new thoughts and he'll have to settle in. It is clear that the quality of management must improve, the image of EAS must ultimately improve, but it does not improve as a result of the marketing campaign, but rather as a result of the substantial work. When it comes to whether or not to move to Rakverre, I do not think that EAS should move to Rakverre. However, I support the fact that the EAS Tourism Department is moving to Pärnu. There are about 30 people currently working there, maybe a few of them could stay in Tallinn, one is already in Tartu and the main competence would go to Pärnu. There is a college of Tartu University in Pärnu, where tourists with higher education are taught. Why not also take such jobs there that when a person graduates from the university, he or she may live in Pärnu, he or she does not necessarily have to come to Tallinn. That is one idea that I personally am in favour of, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U104	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. EAS is for entrepreneurs. A few years ago, EAS received a major task to help boost the research and development of Estonian companies. Very little has been said about this at all and very little has been said about the part of EAS in it. How well has EAS accomplished this task? Or is the job somehow incomplete? This is basically a necessary thing for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U106	Thank you. Yes, one of the reasons why productivity does not increase in Estonia, why wages do not grow as we expect and want, is that research and development, especially as regards private business, is very modest. The state contributes 0.8% of GDP to R &amp; D, while private enterprise only 0.6%, which is still lower than in other countries. How to motivate private business to contribute more, this is a very complex issue and the solutions are very complex, but we are working on them. There is one measure that has been taken on the urgent recommendation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Education: if a scientist wants to receive support for research on a subject, he will only receive it once he has found a private operator interested in this work. This has generally started and will also help to change the way scientists think. In EAS, for example, there is a support programme such as a tailor-made measure for entrepreneurs. The problem in Estonia is that companies are so small, 99% of them are employing up to 50 people, and 95% of them are employing up to 10 people. You might think how difficult it is to force such small companies to think about R &amp; D at all. The EAS tailor-made measure is such that it first advises the company, helps it to draw up a business plan so that it can understand the direction in which the company should move, whether this direction is marketing, is the direction of machinery-equipment or is the product development. If it is found to be product development, the company will also seek to provide solutions and measures on how product development can proceed. That's what EAS does. We have been thinking in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it is only a level of thought; it certainly cannot be said that the state is doing this, so that one thing that can motivate private companies to think more about R &amp; D could be tax policy. For example, research and development workers could have a lower social tax or pay for it at all by the state. There are quite a number of these examples in other countries. This is now a place of debate, because the Government of the Republic has also foreseen EUR 20 million for the next year and beyond to make tax distinctions, whether by sector or by region. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has proposed to the Ministry of Finance that consideration should be given to the tax differentiation of employees in the case of R &amp; D. This could perhaps support the development of this area. Yes, our average productivity is 55% of the European Union's average, and it is difficult to make a very big leap here without a boost to R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U107	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U108	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! If I remember correctly, the previous government has considered the possibility of merging EAS with, for example, KredEx, Archimedes or other institutions when talking about state reform. What are the intentions of the current government on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U109	Thank you. We recently agreed in the office that we have a very precise plan in this regard by March next year. It needs more analysis than just the way that designed-made. There has, of course, been opposition from the ministries because the ministries do not want to bring the institutions together. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance work closely together here. We have agreed at least that bureaucratic activities will be brought together. That's what we're gonna do anyway. Whether EAS stays, does not join KredEx or anyone else requires further analysis. But the fact that all the paperwork, the payout and the control move into one institution, that it is not spread out in several places, is basically decided anyway. How many more institutions could be brought together? As a result, quality must increase, not decrease. That's the goal. Since, in the meantime, we have here the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and officials are involved in much of this, officials are already very, very overburdened by the Presidency, the deadline for this decision was March next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U110	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U111	Good President! Good minister! I'm coming back to that 80 million, I think there was 80 million money for tourism in EAS. I'm really impressed with the amount of money. The EAS Tourism Department has been trying for years and has actually done quite a lot of work, but the results are somehow persistent. It is not that the number of tourists is small, but that Estonia, as a tourist country, is treated as a little bit like a cross-country and as a cheap place. In order to improve Estonia's reputation as the final destination of tourism, little has been done. When we met the new leader, was there a separate story about not only doing a statistically good job?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U112	We were not talking in detail about the work of the different departments, but about the general principles. We're just doing a substantial job, I'm looking forward to it, and it seems to me that the new leader doesn't know any other way, having worked successfully in the private sector for so long. We just don't need to collect any points from anywhere. If you continue to do substantial work, there will also be positive feedback. It does not come overnight, it requires consistent work. However, I cannot quite agree that there has been some poor work on tourism in EAS. Always gets better, always gets better, but in general I feel that the tourism department is actually working well. When it comes to the tourism sector as a lobby, i.e. representatives of tourism associations, they are generally satisfied and commend the work of this unit. Among this 80 million, there are quite a lot of marketing resources. A colleague once told us that we should invite more people to birdwatch and so on. That's right, but that's what they do. Such targeted marketing is needed here, for example, in National Geographic, etc. It's all done. They're not masses, but they're the tourists who are leaving more money behind here again. I think that if you, Mr Talvik, have very specific good ideas, I will be happy to meet you and hear them out. I always take all the good ideas forward. So let's work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U113	Thank you, too, to the Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U114	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister pointed out that among entrepreneurs and people at all, there is a popular banter among EAS. Probably because of the build-up of these big problems, that's part of it. But companies have often had critical assessments before. And I have to admit that positive assessments have still been somewhat less than those that are quite critical of EAS activities. We certainly didn't ask questions because it's popular to curse. We were asking a question because these things pile up a little bit, to say the least, a little bit too much. I think this Ermamaa case has a very large, very strong demoralising effect on Estonian society as a whole. Now these things have happened with the Estonian sign and with the Estonian brand, just as they have happened, and it certainly is not good either. And in the end, the dot for i really was the flower watering story. Because when we talk about the public sector at all and that the public sector should, in some sense, still offer positive morals to the private sector, these examples speak the opposite, and that is where the curse comes from. I am pleased that the Minister was quite critical of what has happened on a number of issues. It is certainly necessary to go this way, so that the public sector looks at the amount of money for all its expenditure, with the view that it is still taxpayers' money. And if this money is used badly, it will have a negative effect on our entire country as such. But I'm not quite sure that we're there now, that we're going to break up the past and come out of this situation. I would like to take the Minister's answers to the Riigikogu today as a last chance to ask the EAS that his things would work well and also look good. Because, indeed, failures have accumulated a little too much. These enquiries are not about wanting to curse, but are about deep concern about what is happening. Pass our greetings to both EAS marketing manager and future manager. Indeed, I will now come back for a moment to the previous question, we have canceled this meeting. Actually, we met in June and looked at these things. Public relations work needs to be done not with the political groups of the Riigikogu, but with the entire Estonian society. If we see that this work is progressing, we will certainly not be locked up for such a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U115	There's no more calls. There are no requests to speak either, although the Minister has the right to do so. I'm closing the negotiations. The procedures for replying to the third enquiry have been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U116	The fourth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild, and this is Rail Baltic on feasibility studies and agreement to be concluded. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U117	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Our question concerns the construction of Rail Baltic and the conclusion of an agreement between the heads of government of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We submitted our inquiry before the agreement was signed. By now, it has the signature of all the heads of state. We therefore have a whole series of questions that I will briefly mention here. How is it possible that the contract was concluded before the feasibility study was carried out? We know that this agreement is still to be ratified by the Riigikogu, so we could have waited until the feasibility study was carried out. The agreement states that Rail Baltic must be built to the end even if the possibility of long-term financing of the project is significantly reduced. Does this mean that, in this case, we will have to build a railroad for our own money and we will only be able to postpone the deadline for completion? In the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kristjan Kaunissaare, the coordinator of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that there is no point in waiting for a feasibility study, because it is not provided for as a basis for a contract. An extremely thoughtful and questioning statement. Why, in this case, would there be a need for cost-benefit studies if the conclusion of the contract and the construction of the railway, regardless of costs and losses, have already been decided? Will every country also have a sovereign right to withdraw from the project without compensation if, for any reason, the project would prove unacceptable to one Baltic State? If there is no such right, why not? Mari Lahtmets, adviser to the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, stressed that the exit of the Baltic States would cause other parties EUR 800 million in damage, which we should pay back. Where does the money come from that big money? How is it with the power to sign such an agreement, all the more so since Parliament has not yet ratified any agreement? The Conservative People's Party Group looks forward to answers. Let us hope that they are good and exhaustive. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U118	Five written questions must be answered by Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U119	Good evening. Thank you, Henn Põlluaasa, Martin Helmet, Mart Helmet, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silda for asking questions! I also personally thank you for the very correct behaviour that the first question to me as a new minister was presented with such timing that the first hundred days were in a position for me to familiarise myself with the issues. I'm here before you on my 103rd day. But I try to give you thorough and exhaustive answers. The first question is about the agreement on Rail Baltic, and this is as follows: 'How is it possible that a corresponding contract will be concluded before a feasibility study is carried out? If the agreement is based on the 2011 AECOM study, why a new feasibility study? ' In fact, two feasibility-benefit studies have been carried out so far on Rail Baltic. However, the study to be completed in April 2017 is the third. The difference between these is the initial task of setting up and the greater specificity of Rail Baltic railway connection solutions in each of the following studies. Each analysis also takes into account the latest, up-to-date macroeconomic data affecting future demand for rail transport services and its maintenance and maintenance costs. The 2007 Rail Baltic feasibility study, the so-called COWI analysis, addressed fundamental solutions for the development of rail linking the Baltic States to the central part of Europe, including the renewal of existing railways and the construction of a new high-speed railway. The analysis was commissioned by the European Commission in the context of international procurement. The COWI study reached solutions for Estonia that have already been partially implemented, for example, the existing railway of Tallinn has been developed to allow speeds of 120 kilometres per hour. The second stage proposed in the COWI study, with the same section increasing speeds to 160 km/h, is described in the national plan entitled 'Estonia 2030+', which plans to increase speeds in 2020 to 2030. At the same time, COWI's analysis envisaged a new North-South railway electrified at the standard European width as one of the options. There was also a suggestion to build one through Pärnu. The study, which was completed in 2011, or the so-called AECOM study, which was also commissioned as a result of international public procurement, analysed the possible progress of a new high-speed rail link through Tartu and Pärnu, and on the old and new railway route. As a result, recommendations were made for the path selection. Based on the comparison of the options, it was proposed to establish a new fast rail link in Estonia through Pärnu, Latvia through Riga and Lithuania via Kaunas. One basis for both the transnational agreement and the previous multilateral agreements is the results of the Rail Baltic cost-benefit study completed in 2011. This study has been accepted as one of the basis for the previous decisions by the Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian governments, as well as by the European Commission, since one of the main sources of co-financing for the construction of Rail Baltic is the budget of the European Union. Other study and analysis results have also been used in the preparation of the transnational agreement. The transnational agreement gives assurance not only to the countries participating in the project, Finland and Poland cooperating with us, but also to the European Commission as a representative of the major donor. In its study, AECOM suggested, inter alia, that a further phase study should be carried out to clarify the cost-benefit analysis of the route on which the decision is based, covering more recent and detailed basic data. In April 2017, the expected cost-benefit analysis of the selected route will be completed as a result of international procurement. The analysis is carried out by EY, a consultancy firm with experience in infrastructure projects. This step-by-step approach to the subject of analysis is also common for other projects in Estonia, Europe and the rest of the world. This method is used, for example, for infrastructure projects financed by the Cohesion Fund, where the financing decision is based on a request for funding together with a feasibility-benefit analysis. However, following the realisation of the project, a new analysis will be carried out on the basis of more precise data in order to review the validity of the initial forecast and, if necessary, to adjust the level of support. This step-by-step approach is all the more important for projects of both time and financial intensity, such as Rail Baltic, since a longer implementation period may lead to changes in the assumptions underlying the analysis, the accuracy of input data and other effects. They need to be considered by decision-makers, including in order to address the risks affecting the profitability of the project. The second question: 'A question was raised at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on point 14.3 of the agreement, which says that Rail Baltic must be completed, even if the possibility of long-term financing of a project of common interest is significantly reduced. Does this mean that if, for some reason, the feasibility of a project is compromised or re-upgraded, it is only possible to change the deadline for completion of the project? 'The parties have the right to review the project financing and delivery obligations by 2025 in cases where the possibility of long-term financing of a project of common interest, as defined by Regulation 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, is significantly reduced, which in turn has a very strong impact on the feasibility of the project. The same law shall apply in cases of force majeure. However, when reviewing the financing of a project of common interest and the deadline for completion of the agreement, the parties to the agreement shall retain the obligation to implement the project in full. The obligation to build Rail Baltic follows from the above-mentioned regulation, in addition to the transnational agreement, according to which Member States will take appropriate measures to develop the core network of the trans-European transport network as defined in the regulation in order to develop the core network by 31 December 2030. The transnational agreement also provides for a mechanism for unilateral withdrawal from the agreement, but only on the basis of Article 14.3. Since these grounds relate to financing and the deferral of the deadline for the completion of a project of common interest, no clear circumstances have been defined for the unilateral withdrawal of the agreement. The conclusion of an agreement shall not affect the exercise on its territory of the powers of the States which are parties to the same agreement. Thus, Estonia's decision-making power to conclude an agreement would not be reduced. It should be borne in mind that withdrawal from the agreement is regarded in the context of international law as a general principle that voluntary commitments must be met in good faith. Thus, Estonia expects other Rail Baltic parties to comply with the agreement, as without it the construction of the Rail Baltic part of Estonia may not lead to the desired results, i.e. a functioning railway connection. As with the project implementation agreement, withdrawal from the agreement and exit from the project in the cases described in the agreement is more likely to require an agreement between the three Baltic States. The economies and political situation in our countries are largely linked, so possible force majeure, or force majeure, or a reduction in the European Union's long-term financing, would probably affect all three of us. The third question: 'The coordinator of the Rail Baltic project, Kristjan Kaunissaare, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said at the meeting of the Commission that there is no need to wait for a feasibility study, because the agreement does not provide for a feasibility study as a basis for the contract. Why are cost-benefit calculations needed when the conclusion of the contract has already been decided and is not dependent on the costs and losses of the project? ' I would say first of all that the government decided that the agreement signed by the Prime Ministers would come before Parliament to ratify it only after publication of the feasibility study. So we didn't have an obligation, but we thought it reasonable to do it in that order. However, the decisions taken so far to build Rail Baltic are based on the results of the 2011 studies. This shows that, according to technical parameters, i.e. fully electrified dual advantage for a European standard gauge rail project at a speed of 240 kilometres per hour for passenger traffic and 120 kilometres per hour for freight traffic, this route has been compared with the lowest building cost and future maintenance costs, as well as the best socio-economic impacts. Therefore, it is best to build on the territory of Estonia through Rapla and Pärnu, just as the agreement states. It is therefore a decision of assessment based on studies. The results of the new study, which will soon be completed, are necessary for a detailed comparison of the maintenance costs and benefits of the construction of Rail Baltic as well as its use with the previous analyses on the basis of updated assumptions and data. Among other things, the study provides the basis for an effort to improve the assumptions that have a positive impact on profitability and to reduce the assumptions that have a negative impact on profitability in the course of rail connections. Once again, the Government of the Republic has decided that the agreement will only come to Parliament for ratification in April, after the feasibility study has been completed and the results have been presented. Question 4: "Is every country guaranteed a sovereign right to leave the project without compensation if it proves unacceptable from the point of view of the country? If not, what is the reason for this? ' It is important to consider that the withdrawal of one country from the agreement and the abandonment of Rail Baltic would lead to a situation where Rail Baltic could not be built for any party in its planned form. For example, Latvia's withdrawal from the transnational agreement and the implementation of Rail Baltic would damage both Estonia and Lithuania, as the objective for Rail Baltic would not be achieved. A similar effect would have on other countries if Estonia withdrew from the agreement. Rail connections between the Baltic States and Central Europe would not be built and the results of the investments made so far would become more unreasonable. There would also be recoveries of CEF support, but the exact amount of these claims depends on the European Commission's view of the failure to achieve the objectives of Rail Baltic as the basis for repayment and the share of the money used. In essence, this may mean that even if Estonia and Lithuania were prepared to build Rail Baltic in the virtual example and saw the benefits for themselves and for Europe as a whole, the withdrawal of Latvia from the agreement would still mean that Rail Baltic would not be built as a railway connection. This, in turn, would lead to a lack of economic benefits through Rail Baltic. It would also lead to a situation where the investments made by the countries in Rail Baltic at that time would become unreasonable. For example, in such a case, Estonia would not have a clear benefit if the railway between Pärnu and Ikla was built for me and the intersections of different levels, but the connection planned through Tallinn and Pärnu would not be built out of Riga and beyond with other Europe. Therefore, in the event of a withdrawal from one country's agreement and the failure to establish Rail Baltic, others would have the basis to recover losses from a country that has withdrawn from the project, whose activities would not make it possible to introduce the planned Rail Baltic parts for passenger and freight transport to neighbouring countries' territory. Consideration should also be given to the recovery of potential CEF funds. The amount of the recovery depends on the Commission's qualification of the situation as a basis for the claim. The beneficiaries of the grants are obliged to compensate the entire European Commission for any damage caused by the implementation/infeasibility of the activities of the contract or where they have been committed poorly, partially or late. Once again, however, it must be taken into account that both the conclusion of an agreement and the withdrawal from it are addressed in the context of the general principles of international law, according to which voluntary commitments must be fulfilled in good faith. Question 5: 'Attorney Mari Lahtmets, of the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, stressed that the exit of the Baltic States would cause damage to other parties of EUR 800 million, which should be repaid to the European Union. What has been done for so much money? Who has given the mandate so that the project, which Parliament has not yet ratified, can no longer be stopped? ' First of all, I note that this was a misleading quote, which also attracted my attention when he was published as such in the article of the Estonian Päevaleht Äireht. This quote was corrected after the publication of this article. As far as we know, the representative of the Ministry of Finance has not referred to the reimbursement of the amount of funds mentioned in the question, either in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu or elsewhere. It is true, however, that if Rail Baltic were not built on account of the actions or omissions of any of the parties, it would be likely to cause damage to the other parties, which could be claimed to be covered by the State that prevented the implementation of the project. However, if we now generally look at what the joint Rail Baltic project is now experiencing and the CEF financing agreements concluded, so far these decisions have been taken against three countries for a total of EUR 633.5 million in the first and second rounds of CEF, i.e. 2015 and 2016. When concluding these financing agreements, the three Baltic States, together with the Rail Baltic Joint Undertaking, have committed themselves to implementing the activities, using the European Union's support and the additional own contribution to the Rail Baltic railway connection. Now, in order to be clear, I say this: we cannot recover the money that we have not used. To date, only a marginal part of the allocated amount has been used. For example, by the end of last year Estonia had used up 2.8 million euros, which went largely to building a tram connection, to design and also to archaeological digs. Now I'm out of time. There were more than a few answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U120	This situation can be improved in the round of oral answers and, finally, the Minister will also be able to speak. The first question is asked by Henn Põllamaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U121	Thank you. The agreement states that Rail Baltic must be built to the end even when the European Union's funding ends. Where does the money come from? What do we have to give up if we build this route for our taxpayers' money? Does the government have a plan B for this? Because then it would literally be a catastrophic situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U122	Thank you for your question. We are working to ensure that in the next period of European Union funding, projects such as Rail Baltic will have the same amount as is currently the case. However, the discussions with the Commission are only in the early stages, and we have no reason to believe that the funding with which plans have been made will not last.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U123	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, my notes from the Committee on Economic Affairs also say EUR 800 million, so I do not know whether I have taken these notes from my own mind. But that's it. Now, if we're talking about still investigating, but at the same time, it's already been decided that the route will be like this, then I do find that the money for research has been dumped. Don't you think so? My last question about profitability. We're looking into, we're counting on profitability, and we're talking about 16 million coming on this new railroad. But the current railroad is already at a huge loss of 12 million. So where does the big profit come from on our railroad for the future? Maybe 50 years from now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U125	This feasibility study, which neither you nor I have yet seen, I can probably introduce here before Parliament after the end of April. Speaking of the 800 million that you have noted in the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, where unfortunately I was not present, it is difficult for me to speak on behalf of the official who issued this amount. But I can assure you that we cannot demand money that we have not yet used. I repeat that the cost of Estonian activities from CEF funds, i.e. the European Union's money, was 2.8 million euros at the end of 2016. This year we have planned to use them to the tune of EUR 46 million. The main activities carried out so far by CEF have been the construction of the airport tram line, which will continue this year, and preparatory studies such as the security of mineral resources and project management. The biggest works planned this year will be the study of Muuga multimodal terminal and the third stage of archaeological research will begin, as well as the design of the Ülemiste and Pärnu passenger terminal. Now I'm coming back to $800 million. If we add the overall amount of the two CEF applications from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and the national self-financing, all of this really amounts to almost that amount. But most of this money has not yet been used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U126	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U127	Good President! Good minister! There is already a cost-benefit analysis of Ernst & Young and a risk analysis to carry out a risk analysis. Should it not be that no ratification should take place until all possible risks have been discussed and the feasibility study of Ernst & Young has also been analysed? Will the agreement to be ratified come immediately after the Ernst & Young study has been published, or will there be time for analysis? If the risk analysis concludes that there is no money coming from Europe in relation to 80:20, will there be no railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U128	Thank you. The risk analysis cannot find what kind of money comes from Europe, because it is a political decision that the countries of the European Union are still making. However, can we find any reasons for delaying ratification? You can always find reasons not to do anything. But I think we have reached a phase where we have to decide whether or not we want a European track gauge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U129	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U130	Dear Minister, Of course, I have a wonderful feeling of being in this Chamber and seeing such a rapid change and how it will be possible to change my views, opinions and statements in just 103 days. But that doesn't surprise you either. I'd rather have a rhetorical question. The previous Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Mr Kristen Michal, spoke basically exactly the same points of view, there is no difference, apart from the voice and appearance. What has changed now, with the change of government, in Estonia's positions or in our chosen direction on the question of Rail Baltic? What difference does it make whether the Minister of Economic Affairs is Kristen Michal or whether you are?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U131	Thank you. With regard to Rail Baltic, I follow the principles of the Centre Party. I'm looking at what my home party says in the program. True, our program has been quite old for 12 years, and it has been the same for us. Since 2005, when we adopted the transport programme, we have said this: we are starting the preliminary work on the European track gauge for the construction of the southern High Speed Rail Baltica, but we are also supporting local passenger train traffic. In some ways, we had to update the position in our programme, as in 2011 the decision was made that Rail Baltic was routed to Tallinn in Estonia, Pärnu Riga, i.e. Pärnu route was chosen. This is why we formulated the following principles in the Centre Party Programme in 2015: connecting Estonian railways to the European railway network, supporting the Rail Baltic project and restoring and developing local railways. Our position has been that yes, there must be a north-south railway. This opinion has been on the Centre Party for at least the last 12 years, so I think much longer than any other party. But it does not have to destroy the rest of the rail network, and as Minister for Economic Affairs, I stand by ensuring that investments in other railways are also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U132	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U133	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I asked a similar question from the Minister of Finance, and I would also like to get an answer from you. Several analysts have said that there is a shortage of working hands for railway construction in Estonia and that labour must probably be brought in elsewhere. On this basis, I ask: what is the amount of income that the Estonian company with railway construction will have?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U134	We are trying to schedule the works so that Estonian entrepreneurs have the opportunity to participate in the procurement process, and this is certainly what they have to contribute to the construction process. I have also studied from a number of construction companies whether there are any works that the Estonian companies will certainly not be able to do. I argue that in the case of large-scale investments that come to Estonia's surface, Estonian entrepreneurs can do the job. Do we have few people or, at the time of the start of Rail Baltic's main constructions, are Estonian construction companies or infrastructure construction companies occupied elsewhere? We have tried to ensure that, next year and the next year, if Rail Baltic's construction is not complete and the euro money has been spent, entrepreneurs can be more busy thanks to the loan money. This means that the government has decided to borrow next year and the following year to contribute to infrastructure. This is how we keep our companies running for the moment when Rail Baltic construction is needed and started. There are no precise calculations of how many euros will remain in Estonia or how much goes out of Estonia, but the prevailing tax revenue must come to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U135	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. All those in favour of Rail Baltic are misleading the public by saying that there are no North-South railways in Estonia or other Baltic countries. Yeah, there are two lines. Both routes can be reconstructed over Europe's width and can be done much cheaper than the new route. This has been confirmed repeatedly by experts in this Chamber, including specific figures, unlike the government, which generally does not produce specific figures. It's such a distraction. The bypass can also be mentioned that this morning I heard Jüri Ratas on the radio say that he never said that e-elections should be changed. Well, it is. Yes, he has. But my question is this: on the basis of what mandate did the Prime Minister, along with the other prime ministers of the Baltic States, sign the Rail Baltic Treaty, unless our Riigikogu has given any permission to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U137	As is customary with international agreements, the Prime Minister received the approval of the government to sign it, and he will come here... or rather, as a representative of the government, I will come before Parliament to ratify this international agreement. A similar procedure has been carried out in Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U138	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. To date, two studies have already been carried out on Rail Baltic. Do you have available research data that compares the previous and current quantities of goods such as 2016? It can be assumed that the quantities of goods have decreased considerably. But does the study show a similar picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U140	Thank you for your question. You're in a bit of a hurry. In comparison with this year's study, I can introduce you when I have it. On the heart of my hand, I have not seen the study that will be completed in April 2017 either; it will be introduced to me at the end of April. Now, speaking of quantities of goods, indeed, the eastern-west trade flow has drastically decreased. However, having been in contact with my colleagues in the Nordic countries, such as the Finnish Minister of Transport, I consider the same multimodal freight terminal with Muuga important and consider it important to cooperate with the port of Vuosaar and Muuga, i.e. trade flows with ships as long as there is no tunnel. All the components have been taken into account in the analysis, but the most detailed and detailed calculations since 2017 can be brought to you by the end of April.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U141	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that investments in other parts and directions of the railroad will not stop because of Rail Baltic. At the very beginning, you also pointed out that the Tartu-Tartu-Valga line should be moved to 160 kilometres per hour between 2020 and 2030. How much investment is needed and what costs, let's say, will the railway infrastructure in Estonia be coming without Rail Baltic for the next ten years? How great will the cost of operating Rail Baltic be after it has been launched?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U143	I can send you data on investments in rail for the next ten years, if they exist at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in writing. At the moment, I have to admit that I don't have them with me, and I haven't memorized all the investments, I might be wrong with the figures. However, I can assure you that if, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I go to the government office with proposals on where the euro on loans for infrastructure could go in 2018, 2019 and 2020, my proposals will certainly also have a major impact on the local rail network.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U144	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U145	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, There's some déjà vu feeling coming on. We have discussed this issue quite several times in this Chamber, and we have also asked questions about it. Our party organised a debate here on Rail Baltic, a very important national issue, where a number of practitioners . I would like to stress, practitioners, who gave a presentation on the subject. Practitioners often know more about things than officials. The talk we heard here right now is the talk of officials. This is the story of the officials who, for reasons they know, have decided that Rail Baltic must come. Whether he's going to work at a loss doesn't matter. He has to come. Today, too, we heard these same views being repeated over and over again. Of course, one point is that we here, who do not agree with Rail Baltic, in the version that is currently being planned and which involves a huge waste of money, would feel like the last of the Mohicans who are resisting the connection of the east and west coasts of America to the railroad. We go with our bows to shoot cars that carry good workers and cowboys. Of course, it's no use. Let's make a lot of noise, shoot some guns, and maybe some arrows hurt somebody, but it's no use because the railroad's coming. I say that I am not so sure that this railroad will come. What is particularly alarming is that if no one dares to even confirm the absolutely right, it does not dare to confirm that, on the initiative of the European Union and the European Commission, railway financing, which is the initial driving force to do this, will actually come. No one can take poison on it. Minister Kadri Simson, the next time we discuss this issue here, I will take a poison bottle with me and ask you to run it away, i.e. show us that you believe: there will be funding. I do not believe that because Britain is leaving, the European Union's budget will be reduced by 15%. We do not know what the results of the Dutch and French elections will be. Perhaps someone else will leave and the Union's budget will fall by a few more percent. Of course, then something will be summed up somewhere, and one of the places to sum up is here on the edge of our remote border, Russia and Finland. No railroads. It's okay, actually there's a railroad. To be honest, it is also very irritating when all in favors constantly confirm how we need north-south connections. It exists, I myself have come to the Polish border in my own time, have been sitting around there, and have gone on to Warsaw. All right, we're talking about it being a different width. The expansion of the railway and even the assembly of two sets of rails, so that they can be used in parallel, simultaneously or alternately, is a perfectly simple and overwhelmable technical problem. We are not really told half of what the actual figures are for transporting goods and passengers. We have now been given a completely absurd example of the need to develop ship traffic between Muuga and Vuosaar. Well, I'd have to be a fool if I first laid the goods on board a ship in containers in Finland, drove 80 kilometers across the Gulf of Finland, lifted my containers off the port of Muuga in order to get them on the train. Why? Why would I do that? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U146	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U147	It's a lot more expensive than putting them on a ship in the harbour and taking them where they need to be in Western Europe. That's what every person who can read money does. To be honest, it's humiliating when people come here to blow a tooth like that. We may be 101 sacks of flour in the Riigikogu, of which nothing depends, because the government has already decided that the railway will come anyway, but we are not so flour bags that we do not understand anything at all. We do understand a few things, though. So I would like to ask you next time not to give such examples as the officials suggested. Now. I'd like to see some specific figures. They must exist, otherwise no estimate has been made at all. How much do we have to dig up the sacred space of Estonia to build a new railway dam? This amount is colossal. Let me give you an example. There's a place in Pärnumaa called Kergu. It is surrounded by powerful peat bogs and a layer of peat is 8 metres thick. However, peat cannot be built, i.e. 8 meters must be dug up to hard soil. Now, think about how much you have to dig out of there and how much you have to carry out. One of my acquaintances calculated that in essence all the gravel stocks currently on account in Estonia would go to fill the Rail Baltic route and would be largely missing. The deficit should be brought to us from neighbouring countries, probably Finland in the form of a fragment. Or if Estonian gravel is not used, then everything must be brought from Finland in the form of granite gravel. It's very expensive. But in the end. It doesn't matter what the arguments are, because the sacred faith is now dominated by the sacred faith of progress, the most powerful monument of which is Rail Baltic. With this sacred faith, money doesn't matter. But the money doesn't matter to the new government anyway, because 100 million on a completely irrational demolished city hall, which should bring us huge conference tourism, and I don't know how many times more money then in the form of tourists visiting Estonia, is another absurd calculation. 100 million on the Presidency, on the Presidency of the European Union! 60 million, according to one estimate alone, the National Defence Academy moved to Narva plus another 30 to 40 million to move to other state institutions. It's already 300 million, i.e. 3/4 of our annual defense budget. People, count the money and think about what you're getting with the money! It is not possible to manage the country in this way. Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, please draw conclusions from today's inquiry and do not believe all that officials living in the comfort zone are telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U148	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U149	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much to add to what Mrs Mardi said, because it seems to me in itself that the time for argumentation in the discussions on Rail Baltic is running out of argument. Unfortunately, it must be admitted that the arguments or arguments against which activists bring against Rail Baltic at different levels are not considered to be anything. Already several meetings in a row, I can sense how, with this dormant flow of information coming from officials prepared in the ministry, the whole discussion on this issue is being completely killed. Indeed, the time for arguments is running out, as Mart said. And I think what is going to happen now is a different debate. It is known that a large demonstration against Rail Baltic will be planned by April 22nd, preparations are under way. Is now really a street diplomacy this place and the way in which we should decide one thing in a normal society? Really, all Rail Baltic's decisions have been made somewhere in the office depth. No public debate has been organised for this purpose. If there had been enough courage to deal with such a large object, then it could have been done through a public survey, i.e. to ask the people more thoroughly what they think. But on the other hand, I would recall the words of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. He told all of us in this same booth with a loud voice in response to my question, what happens when the 80:20 ratio is violated, i.e. 80% of the European Union does not come from funding, but there will be less and Estonia will have to pay more money on its own, so that when that time comes, we will look again seriously at Rail Baltic. That should probably mean that then we might also think about it if Rail Baltic doesn't come after all. At least that's how I interpret it. But for two days, or it was a day after the tripartite contract was signed, Baiba Rubesa, the Latvian woman, who is the head of the Rail Baltic joint company, announced through the press: it is possible that the ratio of 80: 20 Rail Baltic does not come from and three countries should already think about where they take the bulk of the money. This means that the situation is critical. If the manager of this company himself acknowledges that the risk is high and the financing is uncertain, then it is still worth thinking sense and making some more cardinal decisions to not take a very high economic risk and not just economic risk, but also environmental risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U150	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U151	Good President! Minister and ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! I was moved by the speech of a very good colleague, Mart Helme, to come here. I thought I'd talk a little bit more. But above all, of course, I want to mention and I feel that it is my heart to mention here that the village or village of Kergu, which Mart called, is not in the middle of the peat fields. In fact, I was born and raised there myself and even held the position of a parish elder. It's a bit of a factual mistake, Mart. It's not on peat floors, it's on fine limestone down there. It's just that there's a great swamp of Turnvere in the immediate vicinity between Kergu and Tootsi settlement. It's true, there's a railroad going through that edge. And having been involved in this planning, I can tell you that there really is a problem with peat soil. But I've also been in close contact with this plan and I know that two options have been considered. First of all, the railway can be built in such a way that the peat is suppressed because it does not cause structural problems, at least in the opinion of the engineers, but it is more precisely apparent from the construction project. Another option would be excavation, but so that peat can be used for heating or other purposes in the field. I also realize that it's always easy to build something ready, but sometimes it's kind of hard to start it up afterwards. In my opinion, however, there are a number of officials, entrepreneurs, members of the Riigikogu and many good people in Estonia who must work for some sort of ambition and perspective. As a young person, I dare say very clearly that if we have joined NATO and the European Union, our key question is to make Estonia connected by umbilical cord to Central Europe. To be honest, I don't even see another alternative. A lot of young people have gone to Europe for a while, but they want to come back here. Today's railroad is undoubtedly a noble thing to do. If you ask whether this is primarily for me, who I am probably the taxpayer of the Estonian state for a long time to come, then we may be able to put all kinds of images in front of us, but it really depends on what the flow of goods is and how we can actually operate this railroad together. I certainly want to thank all the good people who have taken the time to devote themselves to this very railway project. I also know that there is a great deal of cursing, having attended several different meetings about planning, meeting with landowners. In the initial phase, there was very little positive view of the Rail Baltic project at all. Now I think the situation has become more understandable to many. We were often told in Pärnu that when a bus station is built in Pärnu, no one is talking about profitability, but, look, Rail Baltic is such a sacred thing that you have to talk about profitability from the beginning to the end. I admit that there are no free items, but that is why we have been set up to put such objects in motion, to make a reasonable people and countries serve. I believe that this is not impossible for a country like Estonia either, because our location requires it. Thanks and strength-kicking!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U152	Mart Helme, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U153	Since my name was mentioned, I think I should be entitled to a small reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U154	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U155	It's possible I should have said Turnvere. I, unlike Mr Metsoja, are not from that area, but I know that the distance between these two places is about 20 kilometres. So basically, we understand what place and what problem we're talking about. But as far as the mantra is concerned, which we have heard now, that we need to connect to the south, I will say again: the connection is both in the form of the Tartu route and in the form of the Pärnu route. It's about reconstructing either one of them, not burying mad money in a new path. This is one of the fundamental questions that has almost not been debated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U156	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. That concludes our answer to the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U157	Members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Deniss Borodich, Urmas Kruuse, Urve Tiidus, Heidy Purga, Johannes Kert, Igor Gräzin, Lauri Luik, Madis Milling, Laine Randjärv, Ants Laaneots, Liina Kersna, Toomas Kivimägi and Hanno Pevkur have submitted their fifth inquiry for ferry traffic between the islands. On behalf of the heirs, Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, When Andres spoke in his speech about the implementation and start of projects, our topic concerns project implementation and customer-friendliness. As we remember, from 1 October 2016, the country took over the ferry traffic between our great islands. I guess it's gone over rocks and stumps, most literally. It is precisely the ticket selling systems and, of course, the benefit of the permanent resident, which is implemented through the regulation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The main problem we see is that customers are in a worse position than in the previous operator. We have still not received reasoned answers from the current carrier and therefore we have five questions for the Minister. Why is the regulation granting a permanent resident benefit applied more negatively to the customer than before 1 October 2016? Do you think that this kind of implementation of the granting of the advantage, through restrictions, is fit for purpose? On several occasions, potential misuses have been identified as a reason for a change in the interpretation of one Regulation. What do they represent, and how many statistical misuses have occurred? During the new service provider, how many passengers and vehicles have been serviced between the Estonian islands and the mainland? How many of them were affected by the benefit of the permanent resident? When will the new ticket system be made more user-friendly for island residents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U159	The question must be answered by Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U160	Ladies and gentlemen, 14 members of the Reform Party Group! I promise myself a little reminder of my long life as a opposition politician. If the heirs send only two representatives, they will be very uncomfortable to get the answer from the minister. In fact, however, there is also the form of the written question. Thank you to Urve Tiidus and Kalle Laanet for still being here late at night to hear my answers! First of all, I have to say that there was also an introductory paragraph at the hearing. I noticed that you referred to it as if the islanders were in a situation where, for some reason, they had to pay a triple price to reach the island. I didn't understand exactly how it could be possible to get a triple price together because there is a full price and it is possible to get a 50% discount. In which case, though, a passenger car is charged three times as much as it is, I am not aware. But now to specific questions. The first question: 'Why is the regulation granting a permanent resident benefit applied more negatively to the customer than before 1 October 2016? ' To understand what we are talking about, I will read to you a paragraph of the regulation of Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kristen Michal, which entered into force on 1 October 2015. We are talking about the position of the islanders in particular, and § 5 (1) of that regulation states that Virtsu is entitled to a discount ticket on the ferry route if the vehicle registration certificate states that the owner of the vehicle, the responsible user or the user is a natural or legal person whose population is resident or has a commercial registered office in Saare county. Exactly according to this text, the current carrier TS Ships behaves. If, due to the correct implementation of the Regulation, anyone has been deprived of the benefit they would expect, it is not the harmful implementation of the Regulation, but it has previously been either a lack of control or an insufficient IT solution, so that benefits that are not provided for by the Regulation have been obtained. The second question: 'Do you think that this kind of application of the bonus through restrictions is purposeful? ' The regulation has been established on the basis of the Public Transport Act and is in line with the logic of the granting of the advantage laid down therein. Paragraph 36 of the Public Transport Act provides for travel concessions for regular services carried out on the basis of a public service contract. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of this section, on the basis of a public service contract for the carriage of a regular service in water traffic between the Estonian mainland and the islands and the smaller islands, between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, and between the smaller islands of Saaremaa and Saare County, a concession of up to 50% of the cost of the carriage of a vehicle and its trailer to a natural or legal person who, according to the registration certificate of the transported vehicle, is the owner or the responsible user of the vehicle and whose population register or registered office, as well as the original or final point of the route is the island or the smaller island. Therefore, regardless of the scope for interpretation provided for in the Regulation or alleged to exist, the current Public Transport Act explicitly states the basis for the application of the advantage. The structure of the Public Transport Act is based, inter alia, on the view of the Chancellor of Justice that travel benefits linked to the residence requirement can be established provided that the residence requirement is in the public interest. In doing so, it must have an objective independent of the nationality of the person in order to benefit from the travel allowance by persons who have expressed a more permanent connection or integration with the local government. Therefore, the purpose of the regulation on the introduction of a vehicle ticket benefit has been that only the person whose population register has his or her place of residence in Saaremaa or Hiiumaa, and who is entered on the vehicle registration certificate as its owner, responsible user or user, as the case may be. These conditions are fully justified, as otherwise it would not be possible to distinguish between those who live on an island and those who use a car from those who do not actually live there, i.e. it would not be possible to establish the reasonableness and appropriateness of the application of the travel incentives. Therefore, the granting of an advantage on the basis of specific criteria is purposeful, as this is required by the Public Transport Act. The third question: 'Many times, possible misuses have been identified as a reason for a change in the interpretation of one regulation. How is this misuse expressed, and how much has it been statistically reported? ' I consider it necessary to stress here that the interpretation of the regulation has not changed. The former carrier used the customer card method allowed by the Regulation to grant the benefits, as its information systems did not allow for real-time searches into the population or vehicle register. A customer card was issued to the person who proved the status of the permanent resident of his island and provided the carrier with a vehicle register card that marked him as the owner or user of the vehicle in order to obtain a preferential ticket for the vehicle. At the same time, people who already had a customer card were not required to return their customer card when they moved away from the island or sold the vehicle. Then, however, the cards moved from hand to hand, and therefore, those who were no longer expected to receive a discount on the basis of the customer card could also benefit from it. The ticket system of the current carrier is built on the principle of identification and when selling the ticket, the system automatically searches the registers according to the personal identification code. In this way, only those to whom it is actually intended can purchase a discount ticket. Unfortunately, I do not have any statistics on misuses, as this was not done in recent years. But given the number of inquiries received by the carrier and also by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the fact that I am responding to an inquiry here today, one might think there were such misuses. Question 4: 'How many passengers and vehicles have been serviced and transferred between the Estonian islands and the mainland during the new service provider? How many of them were affected by the benefit of the permanent resident? ' October 2016, when the new carrier started to travel, until February 2017, Virtsu was served on the route by a total of 448908 passengers. Among them were the permanent residents of 121986, or 27.2%. Vehicles were serviced in 203015, including subsidised vehicles 65270 or 32,2%. There were somewhat fewer passengers on the Grass Village route, namely 137581, of which 33.3% were permanent residents, or 45848. There were vehicles on Rohuküla-Heltermaa line 60886 and vehicles with an advantage of 25407, i.e. 41.7% of the permanent residents received a 50% discount. Question 5: "When will the new ticket system be made more user-friendly for islanders? 'The carrier's customer support has not been addressed for specific deficiencies in the ticket system. TS Laevad OÜ carried out a customer satisfaction survey at the end of 2016, which resulted in many positive responses to the performance and comfort of the ticket system. Over 80% of respondents gave good or very good feedback to e-service and smart apps. The most critical of the ease of use of e-service was Virtsu was the business customers who travelled on the route and whose concerns the carrier is familiar with. Solutions are already being developed. At the same time, the carrier has a consistent customer satisfaction monitoring plan, namely that it is possible to write its comments on the ticket system after the purchase. If the questioners had in mind an ID-card-based ticket system that controls the person's right to a discount ticket in real time, I have to say that there will be no such possibility in the near future, because the current regime is not planned to be changed by the carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U161	The round of questions opens Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U162	Thank you. I believe that for me, as a user of this route, and I think that for many others too, it will be a great surprise that 2016 has been amended. I'm sure the public is in complete ignorance. Besides, the discount is meant for people who actually live on an island and go out at some point in time. Let's give you a parallel reading. If a gentleman or a lady needs to travel quickly to Tallinn to see a doctor and she takes a neighbor's car, she will not get a ride discount. Are you okay with that? He is a resident of the island, and the car belongs to a citizen of Saaremaa, but it is not possible to obtain a discount. The same problem is the case in many cases; it also concerns businesses. So, in fact, the system is inflexible and does not meet its purpose. What are you gonna do anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U163	First of all, I noticed when you said that you were surprised at the amendment of the regulation in 2016. However, I said that the regulation on which I am relying entered into force on 1 October 2015. Some of the provisions entered into force on 1 February 2016, as the Regulation was published in the Official Journal of the State on 27 January 2016. One of them is the same as the one that states how you get a discount when you come from or go to Saaremaa. According to the vehicle registration certificate, the driver must be the owner of the vehicle, the responsible user or the user's natural/legal person. And if he is a legal person, then his registered office must be in Saare County.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U164	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U165	Good President! Good minister! My question concerns a bit of a different facet, but the same rafts that travel between the mainland and the islands. As we know, a glorious procurement was made, which was late and two of which have not yet arrived. Your predecessor's minister promised to fine TS Ships OÜ for breaching the terms of the contract, but he also eloquently stated that TS Ships would charge this money in turn to ship builders. How far has this thing come? Has any money moved, and does the new minister have the same plans, or have they changed by now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U166	Thank you. Since my predecessor promised me with a big mouth, I have to be out for his honor and make fines. The first penalty decision has already been made. Indeed, the contract with the builder is correctly concluded in this sense that the amount of the fine will be withheld from our contribution to the builder who delayed the construction, which is why the ships did not arrive on the route in time. A promise has been made that the next fine will be decided in the second quarter, as the first fine came in the first quarter of this year. It's also true that Tiit and Piret are still waiting on the line. I'm based on the fact that it doesn't matter who won the procurement. The tender had clear terms and conditions and one of them was such that new ships would have to be on the route. If the agreements are not complied with, the penalties provided for in the contract must be imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U167	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Many islanders, as well as tourists, have special needs. They may have a disability, a hearing disability, a disability, a disability of movement that requires special conditions. These people need accessible services on the one hand, must have physical access, on the other hand, as well as content, i.e. access to ferry services. In addition, people with disabilities have always had certain benefits. Are new barges, new ships accessible to all target groups? What kind of ticket discounts are foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U169	Thank you. Travel benefits for people with disabilities are laid down in the same ministerial regulation. You can travel free of charge by a disabled person up to 16 years of age if you present an identity document, a person 16 years of age and older with a deep disability, presenting an identity document and a disability card issued on the basis of § 23 of the Disability Benefits Act. In addition, a person with a severe visual impairment, a person with a deep or severe visual impairment, a driver or assistant dog accompanying a disabled person may travel free of charge if the disabled person presents an identity document and a disability card issued pursuant to § 23 of the Disability Social Benefits Act. Now, I admit that in the meantime, when there were replacement ships in the course of the operation, not all the necessary conditions had been created for disabled people to have access to the passenger area, but these problems have been solved with new barges.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U170	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm not a regular ferry user, but I recently visited Hiiumaa. On the ferry, Leiger noticed some shortcomings. For example, sound was very bad, as the ship's captain or whoever passed on the information, it was very difficult to understand, because the text was hacked and interrupted all the time. The picture of the display also sprung, and some seats were already broken. As a tourist person, I immediately thought that if there were several busloads of tourists in the tourist season, there would definitely be toilet queues. Who will pay for all these shortcomings when repairs or renovations are needed? Is it at the expense of the Estonian state, at the expense of the entrepreneur, at the expense of the Port of Tallinn of AS or at the expense of the shipbuilder?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U172	I'll give your information to the carrier. As far as shortcomings are concerned, it all depends on the reason for which they have arisen. Vandalism cannot be blamed on the builder, but there are, of course, warranties for construction defects. So if there's a contractor's workshop, the ships are covered by a warranty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U173	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U174	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Last week the Voice of the Islands made such an observation that the contract with AS Kihnu Veeede was signed to connect to Ruhnu and Hiiumaa, whose service costs considerably more than the Saaremaa Shipping Company and Wind Lines combined. Why was such a contract concluded and not taken into account for the award criterion, which has always been cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U175	Thank you for your question. The award criteria were taken into account and only Kihnu Waterways qualified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U176	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U177	Thank you. It is remembered that Windships had an electronic ticketing system that worked perfectly. The State also contributed several hundred thousand euros to its development. According to the agreement, this system was to be transferred to the State at the end of last year. But instead of using or buying it, the country spent more than a million euros on developing the new system. I'm curious what's become of this old system now. Has it been handed over? Now do we just have an application in the drawer unnecessarily? We've spent a lot of money. What's the status?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U178	IT solutions and sales platforms still need to be updated from time to time. So the new app will probably serve us well for many years to come. What happened to this system that no one is using now? Honestly, I owe you an answer. I can't tell if he's on a shelf or if he's even been handed over. I'm sorry, I don't know the answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U179	Minister, there are no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U180	In 2014, Minister Palo of Economic Affairs decided that the State, through its companies, must provide the service better than previously provided to its customers, i.e. island residents, by increasing the level of customer service and, of course, by tightening the timetable. This is a huge challenge for a state-owned company and it is difficult to achieve. The implementation of this decision went from the very beginning, starting from the procurement of ferry construction to the fact that now, half a year later, half the new ferries are still in the factory. Every week when I come into contact with people using ferry services, I can assure you that the islanders are not satisfied with the organisation of the service. A bad example is the same as the one mentioned above, which the current carrier interprets in a way the rate of the islander's advantage. Yes, I have met the current operator several times, as well as the people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We have not been able to reach an agreement with them. No one knows how to change the system so that it is fit for purpose as it was implemented from the start and people are satisfied. I think that this is not a carrier's maliciousness, but the reason is quite simple: the ticket system is inflexible. As mentioned here earlier, and the Minister said, the IT system was solved novelly. Boys with a ponytail came here who thought it was supposed to be this way. And it was done without communicating with, and not to mention, people who have dealt with it before, or customers who use the system. I'll give you a few examples based on the information that's fallen into my mailbox, of course. The first example. I took my granddaughter Virtsu and left the car in Drying. I wanted to buy a ticket back and forth at the cash register because the kid was already on the ferry. The cashier couldn't sell a ticket like that. But if I had stayed in Virtsu's register, I probably should have waited another ferry for 1.5 hours, because my ship would have left by now. I was thinking a little, and I went to the cashier to buy another ticket. Luckily, there was time for the ferry to leave. Of course, no one asked for a ticket, and it all worked out. Another example is the attitude of the company. Now the coming of the collectives has come up very keenly and are going to a young song and dance party in the summer. The organizer is literally concerned. He says the company is rigid and inflexible to make any kind of deal. I understand one problem is that we can't make reservations by now because the company doesn't have any schedules yet. Apparently, the subject of extra travel is also a talk. It is very difficult to communicate, still the same issue of user-friendliness. Third, the kroon event of the summer, the opera days of Saaremaa. The transfer order worked without any problems in the past, and now the Estonian Concert is looking for 40,000 euros to get the transfer done. There was never such a problem with the previous carrier. These cases that I have brought forward here are just a few examples. In my opinion, the question of the country's honour is that the new carrier solves such everyday issues without having to discuss it in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Let's talk long and hard here, even take a political decision, but its application gets jealous and it's all politicians. Think about it. Is the state still the best service provider? I don't think so. Surely the people responsible for these matters must ultimately be held responsible. I mean not only political responsibility, but also the responsibility of officials. There has been a great deal of talk here, as has been the case today, precisely about the official body, which simply pushes forward the wave that politicians are walking along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U181	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. This will be followed by a message that we have completed the fifth inquiry procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U182	The sixth question has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Kalle Laanet, Urve Tiidus, Madis Milling, Urmas Kruuse, Valdo Randpere, Igor Gräzin, Deniss Boroditš, Lauri Luik, Jüri Jaanson, Terje Trei and Hanno Pevkur about the nursing homes of Sõmera. On behalf of the heirs, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. The next question also concerns Estonia's largest island, Saaremaa. On 13 February, Kaia Ivala, Minister of Social Protection, presented an inquiry to the 11 members of the Reform Party Group. We asked about the welfare of Sõmera's nursing home in Saaremaa in the near and distant future. As we know, Sõmera Kodu Saare County's largest institution providing special care is owned by AS Hoolekandeteenused, which has 400 state budget seats in the circuit. This nursing home provides 24 hours a day care services for persons with deep composite disabilities and people in need of special care. As Minister, Dear Kaia Iva, you met with the local government leaders of Saaremaa on 3 February to discuss the urgent issues related to Sõmera Home. Despite the fact that local government leaders, social workers, some members of the Riigikogu and also the governor are opposed to the closure of the nursing home, the closure of Sõmera Home is still on the agenda. At a meeting that, according to the media, became quite emotional, a proposal was made, among other things, to set up planned small family houses at the Sõmera Home. So far, it has been known that instead of a large house, Sõmera's inhabitants will have cozy family houses. This proposal was not supported by the Minister at that meeting. However, the leaders of Saaremaa have the hope that it will be possible to discuss and reach a compromise on this issue in cooperation. More questions have arisen. The authors of the inquiry hope that today's answers will give rise to a ray of hope for local people, including those for whom Sõmera Home in Western Saare County means a'regional job' for which it has been trained and where competence has been acquired in practice. Concerned islanders want to know whether changes also mean that workers lose their current job and social guarantees and maybe even a job close to home. Knowing well that Europe is gradually moving from institutional care model to family and community-based care model, that investments have been made and are being made, and that the restructuring of childcare services in particular has also gained positive experience, it is nevertheless good to hear information from a direct source. Due to the above and pursuant to § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, we have a number of questions for you, Minister. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U184	Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks to the questioners for asking questions. Then I'll try to explain so that we can find out better. I will read the questions and answers. The first question: "What is the main reason why Sõmera's nursing home is closed and not suitable for further service? ' In the area of special care, the national objective is to reorganize more than 30-digit service places and to give priority to the provision of supporting services, with a focus on developing personalised and high-quality services on a community-based basis. In large institutions, citizens lack sufficient control over their lives and decisions concerning them; the requirements of the service provider are more important than the individual needs of the population. Europe's common direction is to develop the transition from institutional care to community-based care, as the latter form supports greater independence and personal development, while reducing social exclusion. As a result, large institutions and new service places will be closed to larger communities so that all people with special mental needs can actively participate in community activities and public services will be more accessible and better interlinked, such as public transport, medical care, work activities and the possibility of other activating activities. In expanding the network of service places, it is important that the service is provided close to the person's social network or home, in order to maintain family ties and the possibility of returning home or re-living independently. This option must also be created for all Sõmera customers. It is also important to take into account the distribution of the population in the future and the origin and social networks of potential new customers. As a result, we consider the reorganisation of the Sõmera nursing home to be justified. This must ensure that new service places are created in communities where public services, employment and activation opportunities are available and available. Question 2: "When Sõmera's nursing home is closed, what will happen to their clients today? " Current customers are being directed to new homes built in communities where people can be active in society and use supportive services. New places allow for family-based living in smaller units and support individual choices and the ability to cope independently. When choosing a new place of residence, care services take into account the origin of the person so that he or she can return to his or her loved ones or friends. The customers of Sõmera are from Saaremaa. Around a quarter of the customers of the sister will be offered a lighter, community-based service in the future, given their need for services. Care services have estimated that some customers do not need a 24/7 special care service, but a lighter, community-based service. Welfare services have confirmed to the Ministry of Social Affairs that all customers have prior explaining work and are also designed to facilitate adaptation. For example, people go to a new place of residence in advance, take into account people's wishes for new housing, etc. This was confirmed by Helle Kahm, the head of the Sõmera nursing home. Question number three: "What about guardianship? ' The guardianship is certainly important because, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, 175 of Sõmera's clients have received custody. When a person moves to a new place, the municipality of West-Saare does not need to remain his guardian. Such a solution is supported by the possibility provided by § 205 (3) of the Family Act that the municipality or city government of the person's population register need not be the guardian of an adult person. According to the Family Act, in the absence of a natural or legal person suitable for the guardianship of a person, a municipality or city government with which the adult is most closely associated may be designated. Among other things, an adult may be most closely associated with the municipality or city government where he or she comes from, where he or she has lived most of the time, with which he or she has maintained important ties, where his or her loved ones live, where his or her property is located, or where his or her population is resident. During this process, if people using the services of Sõmera Home are able to settle in new high-quality service units and be involved in the activities of this community as a citizen of the new location, to use public services and to be busy, these people will have a connection with the new rural municipality or city government. Therefore, there is a possibility in the Family Law that the previous guardian will be released from his/her duties and the new guardian will be appointed a municipality or city government, with which he/she will now be more closely associated. Cases in which a municipality or city government with which a person is more closely involved is not designated as guardian of a person's population, but have been dealt with by the courts by the appointment of a new guardian. In view of the interests of the guardian and the ability to communicate with his guardian, the questions of assigning guardians to those who move away from Sõmera's Home must be resolved. Question 4: "What message do you have for 135 workers working in a nursing home today? What happens to them now? ' The nursing home of the sister will be gradually closed by 2020. As a result, there will not be immediate redundancies but will be redundancies during the period mentioned above. The first major changes are planned in two years' time. Welfare services have studied the composition of staff. 37 of the workers are approaching retirement age, reaching retirement age by 2020, so we need to be prepared that they may not want to work full-time again. A study of care personnel shows that 23 employees work in Kuressaare and have the potential to start working in new service units. People who work from Kärla village have the potential to start working at the General Care Centre of Kogula. Of course, Welfare services work together with the unemployment fund to find alternative employment opportunities. Re-training and other support services shall be provided where appropriate. Question 5: "What are the intentions of the existing Sõmera nursing homes? ' As far as the Ministry of Social Affairs is aware, Hoolekandeteenused is preparing a plan for the disposal of buildings. The primary objective is to realise buildings wherever possible. If this fails, because it is still a very large complex, the dismantling of buildings may be an option. This is also proposed by the municipality. Care services have confirmed that the buildings are not going to fall apart. The current practice following the closure of large nursing homes has shown that it has been possible to realise the buildings. Question 6: Will the restructuring of the special care system and the construction of small family houses eliminate the order of special care services where 425 people are currently waiting? ' The reorganisation of special care institutions is not a measure to reduce queues. Reducing the queues is rather a matter of financing the service and the state budget. There is no point in creating more places with the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds if we do not have the resources for them in the state budget. However, the aim of these instruments is to create high-quality service places for current customers. The ERDF will also provide 200 additional community housing services, in addition to the reorganisation plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U186	I'm opening a round of questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There was a lot of information in your answers, of course, but I'm still gonna ask you one thing. Sõmera There are 60-70 people from Saaremaa, some of whom do not need a 24-hour service. The real reason why this issue has become so acute is still people working in that nursing home. You are saying that some of the problem will be solved by people retiring. But, as we know, the retirement age is being raised and it has been said that pensioners are also still working anyway. With state reform, we want to take jobs out of Tallinn. Why, though, do we not use the option of setting up these family homes for Sõmera? It's a naturally very beautiful place, and people are used to living there. Old people are not so easily taught to live in another community and to communicate with a new rural municipality government. Wouldn't it be possible to leave these jobs there and make family houses right there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U188	Thank you for your question. Actually, there were a number of questions. I'm trying to answer. First of all, couldn't these jobs stay right there because then today's workers would have the opportunity to continue working there? Any service should be subject to the principle that we provide the service where it is consumed. Currently, the clients of this nursing home, who have a total of 358, have been brought there across Estonia. The traditional principle of our circumstances and history has so far been that most special care institutions have been populated far away from places and especially from larger centres. These institutions are just like the Sõmera Home very large. It is based on the principle that these people are not in front of us, but out of sight. I think there could be more places like this in Saaremaa than a 30-digit community centre that is currently planned and built in Kuressaare. Also, the fact that customers from Saaremaa are Sõmera circa 60 shows that there is a need for this. Unfortunately, the negotiations with the municipalities of Saaremaa did not go smoothly, because people are not yet used to it. There were also failures when it became apparent that such an institution was being set up somewhere nearby. It is now based on the principle that these services, which I spoke about before, would be at the hands and feet of these people, because they are not usually able to move a long distance on their own, and they are not all using the bus on their own. Therefore, new family houses should be located in a place where these services exist, including, for example, leisure services and work application services. As a result, Sõmera has not been rated as a prospective place. However, when the meeting said that the local government would be willing to cooperate with the Welfare Services and perhaps to provide the service there myself, I asked them to contact them and offer possible cooperation and compromises. As far as I know, the Head of Welfare Services sent a letter to the Municipality Government on 15 February and announced the criteria for creating new family homes, but he has not received an answer from the municipality. However, me and the Ministry received a letter from the mayor proposing to set up family homes on Sõmera territory. Unfortunately, for the reasons described above, this does not make any sense. But I see there are opportunities to make this transition smoother in time. I would be very pleased if there was at least another family home in Saaremaa. This would correspond to the proportion of the population in the long term, but it also means cooperation. At this meeting, I spoke about the criteria for using ERDF funds and asked for direct communication with the head of the public limited company. Unfortunately, there has been little.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U189	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U190	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I believe that none of us doubt that living conditions in special care homes should improve. Rather, questions have been raised as to why these modern special care institutions must be located in a densely populated area. We have also discussed this issue repeatedly in the Committee on Social Affairs. We have been approached by a number of parents of children in need of special care and those close to adults in need of special care, who have confirmed that a more natural and peaceful environment would be suitable for their loved ones. Do you have some scientific studies at your disposal that confirm that people in need of special care should live in a densely populated area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U191	Thank you for that question. Obviously, the criterion is not how dense the population is, but which services are available on the ground. Services where there are no people are simply not. But not all institutions need to be exactly the same. I have visited several institutions and seen various conditions. I believe you, too, have visited such institutions as the one between beautiful forests, in a quiet and peaceful place where perhaps agricultural work and other such works and activities are required to be carried out on land. But I also have at my disposal the lists of services that have been taken into account in this call for proposals. The current reorganisation does not concern all service providers and service places, however, the largest is being reorganized and Estonia remains diverse even after the reorganisation. During the second round, which will be announced during this year, the target area can already be addressed if the focus is on smaller service places or some bottlenecks. That's what we're gonna do. But one of the important things that I think will be said more when some bottlenecks have emerged is that special care clients need more job opportunities and leisure opportunities and that they have something to do with them all the time. Sometimes people say something bad has happened, and these people have bothered someone. This has often been due to their lack of activity. There is an analysis of which services are available there and which can be used in Kuressaare. These services, the existence of which will be taken into account when assessing projects, are for example: should be able to go to shops and pharmacies and use public transport, should be able to go to libraries, community houses and sports centres and use banking services and certainly have very important job opportunities. Sõmera's customers would be able to benefit from the sheltered job opportunities provided by the Chamber of Disabled People in Kuressaare, but if public transport or other transport were to be used every day, this service would eventually no longer be viable or possible. As their employees make the best efforts and do their best, their customers are also easily satisfied that they receive this service, are maintained and cared for in the best possible way. But we have to take a step forward. I believe that those who have been to this nursing home themselves admit that the current situation is not good and that it cannot continue as such for long. Obviously, the transition period is difficult, but if we start making investments, it makes sense to do them elsewhere. For example, when the Lääne-Saare parish began to reorganize the general care service, it was not its municipality that made the general care home, but its Kuressaare. I watched Andres Tinno, the then elder of the parish, comment as to why the municipality of Lääne-Saare is making a nursing home not in Sõmera or on the territory of its municipality, but in Kuressaare. He said to the ERR: 'In the case of immovable property, it is always said that the first place is important. And here are the hospital, ambulance, family doctor's centre and the owners of Saaremaa Valsi can also offer us additional services, such as mud treatment and physical therapy services. Place is like one. And the largest circle of beneficiaries is also here that 20,000 people live in Kuressaare and its immediate vicinity, and that is best for maintenance. " If we say that it is necessary to have services in the neighbourhood to provide general care, then the same requirement is also the case for special care services.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U192	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U193	Thank you. Madam Secretary! The services you mentioned can be obtained either from the same place next to Sõmera's nursing home or from two kilometres away. With this reorganization decision, we're going to break the atmosphere there. Customers are used to being there, the local community is used to having customers there, the same is true of the workforce. We consistently chop that it is not suitable to do new things. Why are we doing this? Why are we saying that it is not possible to do so? Everyone is happy there, but we from Tallinn say that we really are not and need to do something different. Local community, local government leaders, county government, members of the Riigikogu say one thing, but Tallinn says no, Sõmera doesn't go for a shot. Read the Saturday paper where the residents of Kuressaare are back on their hind legs and write letters. Why is it done? Why are we disturbing local communities just by chopping it like it's not good enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U194	Thank you for that question, if it was a question. You say that we should not make changes because people are used to the situation. Yeah, they're used to it. I am very grateful to those people who do this work in the local community and who are friendly and well associated with their clients. But that doesn't mean we have to accept it or consider it normal when a community says they don't want to see these people or that it's bothering them somehow. It's a question of society growing up. I myself am from a local government where the same Family Homes for Welfare Services were established a few years ago. We were also asked whether it was good or whether it was good for the region. By now, everyone's used to it, and that's normal. It is normal that such people move among us, attend the same events as us, are there and can be applied to working life. Many of them would, in one way or another, be able to contribute more to social life through their work. But this cannot be done where there are no jobs. You said all these services were available at least two kilometres away. I've got the services analysis, and it's not gonna work out that way. It says here, for example, that there is a need for dentists four or five times a month, but there is no dental service available, and they visit dentists in Kuressaare. There's a need for hospital services five times a week, but it's not there, customers go to Kuressaare. There are no rehabilitation services there, customers visit Kuressaare on average 73 times a year. These services, which are required once a year or once a month, do not necessarily need to be mentioned: pharmacy, psychiatrist. The psychiatrist, however, goes twice a month, it is now well solved, the psychiatrist can go on the ground. There is no long-term protected work service on the site, but it could be used in Kuressaare. There is probably no swimming pool, it is currently used in spring in Kuressaare, but it is probably not an important service. But work services, rehabilitation services, dentistry, those services that are in the hospital? As I said, these customers do not move on their own and because of their needs, they have a much greater need for such supportive services than ordinary people whose health is perhaps in order.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U195	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would look at this problem through the eyes of the Sõmera wards and their loved ones. The first question that arises is the risks posed by the sudden environmental change for such people. Next, what is the view of those people who are close to it? There are 358 wards. How many people are there who would like to leave (or, in the opinion of their loved ones) as a matter of urgency, and how many people do not think this environmental change is appropriate? The question now arises as to whether the closure of the Sõmera could also take place in a much slower way and over a longer period.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U197	Thank you. Precise statistics on what their loved ones think, I don't. There's a lot of people out there who don't even have loved ones. But there are specific programs on how to deal with customers. As I mentioned, they are being introduced to new opportunities and visited to see where they could go so that they could get to know them. Care services have good experience, they have done such reorganisations in the past, and these transitions, as they have described, have mostly gone very positively, as these changes take account of the wishes of customers. Some people already know he wants to go home. When I went to Sõmera, the first customer to pick up and jerk off for a hello, he said he'd like to get out of there and close the place down. He also named a place he'd like to go. There's probably more people like that. But there was another client who said he had a good roommate there, so he'd like to stay there because he's used to it. He wouldn't want to leave his roommate. If possible, things like this will be taken into account who wants to go to which place with whom. Now, from this temporal dimension. Yes, we also discussed this with the Head of Care Services. It is possible to make this transition longer. This probably implies that this will be discussed with the local government. The municipality should also think that this could help. But this time cannot be too long because the ERDF has its own time dimension in the period of funding, by 2023 it must have been done. However, it is already the case that no new customers have been added, so customers should have left by the end of 2022. That's why this time dimension is there. But that time is quite long, because the normal movement of clients is also. When new homes are ready, those who are ready to move can do so sooner. Others too must be treated in such a way as to disturb them as little as possible. The transitions are, of course, disturbing, but the experience of previous reorganisations has been very positive, according to the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U198	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with my colleague on the question of Urve Tiidus. It turned out from your answers that 358 people from Saaremaa are from 60 to 70, so at least two to 30-person service units should be made in Saaremaa to cover the needs of Saaremaa. But there are certainly other people in need of special care services, I am thinking of lighter services, such as supporting everyday life, supported work, etc. What services will be available in Saaremaa and where will they be? I understand that one service unit will be created in Kuressaare. Where are the other 30 to 40 people from Saaremaa going? What other supporting services will be available in Saaremaa and where will they be provided?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U200	As I said, I think there should be at least one more family house in Saaremaa. This proposal to the local government leaders when we met in the municipality, I also made them think about how to create it there and be open and flexible on their own. Otherwise, it is not possible to provide a 24-hour service to all people from Saaremaa in the long term. Of these 60-70 people, there are certainly those who do not need a 24-hour service but a community-based service. As I said, if the first round cannot be achieved so that another family home can be created there, then we must certainly consider how to remove this bottleneck during the next round. There is currently such a perilous situation across Estonia that there are large areas where there are no 24/7 services. The aim is to ensure that Estonia is covered as evenly as possible with these services. I am positive, however, and I hope that the solution will also come for Saaremaa. The municipality has said very generally that they would be willing to consider other options to provide special care on the ground themselves. But, as I said, unfortunately, they have not responded to the Welfare Services and have not made any further contact with them, even though I asked for it. There's still time. Let's hope there's a good solution. We're still trying to pressure them to take these steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U201	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U202	Thank you. Good minister! Special care seems to be an acute topic in communication between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Social Affairs is rolling over the opinion of the Riigikogu. Your predecessor, Margus Tsahkna, signed a regulation on the reorganisation of special care before he had met the Riigikogu, despite the fact that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu invited him to the debate. I still say that although you want to take these people to the city area for services in the context of optimization, they are not feeling very well there. Do you have any study of where these people feel best about themselves, whether it is a city or a rural area, such as the Common Environment of the Stranger, or how they tolerate this kind of move for optimization?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U203	We're not in the middle of optimization right now. We are working to provide these customers with a good service in the long term. This result is not optimal in the sense that it is much cheaper, we are not in any other way seeking some kind of optimization, but in order for people to be members of society, to be able to carry around, to use services and to feel valuable. These principles have not arisen overnight, but have been agreed with the Riigikogu and the Government quite several years ago. These common principles are set out in the previous stages of reorganisation. What's going on right now is part of the bigger job. This is the realisation of decisions taken previously. There's nothing new here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U204	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I will continue on Mr Jaanson's question, but I will ask you the other way around. Many other countries are also currently replacing large nursing homes with smaller ones. I know a little of Germany's experience and, on this basis, I say that small family houses, small special-supported housing are being sought in those places where this service is no longer so well preserved, but it is being developed there because of it. Where does the conviction come from that we will be satisfied with this alternative, that we will take these homes and supported services to where the service already exists? What is the basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U206	Some of the services are those that can be delivered on site if one or the other service centre is set up there. The way it is now: a psychiatrist can visit the site, a family doctor can visit the site. But it is probably not possible, for example, to have a dentist visit or to provide other services that require greater investment. If there are 30 clients, it probably doesn't make sense. What is more important is what I have been talking about, i.e. participating in general social life and also working. The possibility of such clients working is quite high. Currently, about a quarter of all clients who receive a 24-hour service are employed and those who receive other services, i.e. in the community and who receive a supported living service, are covered by three-quarters. However, this part could be greater if these customers lived in places where there would not be a barrier to going to work. As I said, they are not able to move independently every time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U207	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was told by the manager of a large nursing home that the nursing home began to pay off and was able to manage normally when the number of clients rose to 50, below the border it was very difficult to manage the nursing home. Today, a little less has been said about profitability. But now that we're making small, 30-seater or even smaller nursing homes, the costs should be pretty high compared to big nursing homes. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U209	Your question will also answer a question from one of your colleagues. The ongoing reform is not an optimization in terms of costs, it is a programme for the benefit of customers. Of course, if there are fewer customers, there will be no scale effect. I know that Career services have done these calculations and found that if there are 24-digit or 30-digit houses, different options are possible when creating these homes, then the number of jobs is optimal and it is possible to provide this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U210	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U211	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I will continue with Krista Aru's question. Is it possible, and how much have you as a member of the government, in the sense of state reform, to think that it is possible for a public enterprise to develop a housing establishment, precisely by means of the model that Krista Aru said that there would be a possibility to provide a service and that the following services would be developed through this one service? This will also increase the community and its integrity. How much is meant for regional policy in the context of the provision of these services? Care centres as partners are the most convenient way to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U212	Thank you. There's a right little point in this argument, not a big point. It is that, if there is a community anywhere, there is an additional unit, be it a family home for special care, for example, but it is obviously not wise to build regional policy on that. In order to be able to start providing all these services in terms of volume, the number of these customers should be so large that the natural environment no longer exists there, in the sense that it is natural that everything is in a normal proportion. Such work, which would also be suitable for these customers, would not be there for such a large amount. Yes, specific jobs can be created, but in order for diversity to exist, it is still necessary that there are institutions and companies in this region where these customers can be used. If we were to assemble our customers and create new locations like this, it wouldn't be in their customers' best interests. There are, yes, probably exceptions, for example, when there is specific production, even agricultural production. This cannot be done in a place where there are many people, but it must be done between fields and in other places like this. There will probably continue to be very diverse institutions in Estonia, but these several hundred institutions are probably not the ones where we should try to create a new settlement based solely on our special care clients. This would probably be the opposite of what Europe means and what we ourselves mean, talking about human service and a life of respect for human freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U213	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First, I would like to ask for negotiations on behalf of Kalle Laanet's heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U214	Thank you. I'll come back to Scream and Smera. As of 1 January 2015, 841 inhabitants lived in Kärla village. Like I said, the distance between Sõmera and Kärla is about two kilometers. There is a school in Kärla, a sports building, a shop, a beautiful park where everything is available in summer. People are used to having such customers walking around and working in neighboring farms. This facility has been there for 40 years. Now we find that this area does not fit in any way and we must take these people to Kuressaare or somewhere else. I don't understand why we're breaking this situation that everyone's satisfied with. Yes, I understand that this is a large establishment with more than 300 customers, and there is a new approach that everyone goes to their homes and stays only with people who are connected to Saaremaa, who are 60. Several houses could also be built there. But no, it doesn't work. I don't understand it. Is this some kind of bullshit or is this a tantrum? We are talking about taking state institutions out of Tallinn, but at the same time we have found that in the context of Saaremaa there are 20 kilometres away from Kuressaare and we must take these people to Kuressaare. Where's the logic here? I do not understand such a policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U215	Would the Minister like to speak? No, I don't. Then I'll close the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U216	Let's go to the next item. The seventh question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Krista Aru, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. The subject is the deinstitutionalisation of special care services. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U217	Mr President! Good minister! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 21 February, six members of the Free Party Group submitted to Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva an inquiry into the deinstitutionalisation of special care services. The previous question we just finished discussing was about an institution. We are now moving individually to a more general one, although it would have been logical to do the opposite, but I understand that the answer to inquiries takes place in the order in which they are presented. Why did we ask this question? In fact, for this reason, which in many ways came out in the case of Sõmera. The reorganisation and deinstitutionalisation of special care institutions has been a national plan for about the last ten years. After all, the goal is good and sacred: to provide better and more personalised services for these people, people with special mental needs. It is a desire to make the lives of people with special psychiatric needs in large special care institutions more dignified and more at home. It is undoubtedly the right direction, and no one is questioning it. It is a pleasure to note that the budget for special care has increased from year to year in the state budget. There has been an increase in the salaries of service providers and a considerable number of service places have been created, namely 2031 places across Estonia, so we now have 7027 service places. It is worrying, however, that in the last funding round of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), it was possible to submit projects to AS Hoolekandeteenused, local authorities and representatives of third sector, but very many applicants feel that treatment is unequal. They therefore believe that, for example, a public limited liability company is guaranteed 15% of the state budget for its own contribution, whereas for example a small non-profit institution created by parents to ensure a better future for its children must find this money from its own resources. This has led to the question of whether the State has still treated all applicants with regard to the principle of equal treatment. We were prompted by the fact that, when we asked the Minister in Question Time a few weeks ago why this is being done, the Minister replied that the Welfare Services were therefore obliged to provide these services for the next 20 years. In fact, all non-profit institutions that apply for and receive funding also have exactly the same obligation to provide services as is foreseen. We also want to find out what the queues are. The state says that there are over 7 000 service locations, but the funding covers about 5 000 service places. Are we getting back to the fact that the queues are growing? In the light of all the above, we have asked the Minister seven questions and we are waiting for meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U218	Thank you. Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning! I'll try to keep up. There were some statements in the introduction to the inquiry that are misleading and not true, but I will try to talk about them by answering specific questions and then I will also specify what you said I answered in the Riigikogu Question Time. I didn't quite say that to myself, but when I said, I'm sorry! I'll explain right now. The first question: 'How has AS Hoolekandeteenus[ed] used ERDF grants so far and why is there no clear overview of AS' ability to implement DI's [deinstitutionalisation] objectives? ' Welfare services have carried out six projects for the reorganisation of special care services, including Ravila, Mõisamaa, Aavere, Udriku and Kernu nursing homes and partly Koluvere nursing homes, with the support of funds for the European Union period 2007-2013. Within this framework, at least 550 high-quality service places were established in 11 locations all over Estonia to replace existing large institutions. New homes based on family houses were built in Kehra, Tõrva, Türi, Tapa, Vääna-Viti, Sinimäe, Kodijärv, Uuemõisa and Vändra, and houses were built in Viljandi and Karula, where they live two by two. The ERDF was allocated EUR 22.9 million for operations, EUR 4.1 million for public funding and more than 3 million for the beneficiary's own contribution. Care services have highlighted a number of positive changes that have been brought about by changes in the way things are organised. People are more independent and active, are more actively involved in activities of interest and are involved in the labour market. They participate more frequently in the labour market through the employment unit Foundation Good Hoog, set up by a public limited company, but they also participate in the open labour market. This supports the implementation of deinstitutionalisation in established new homes. Our follow-up activities are also designed to provide people with better living, learning and working conditions. To the knowledge of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Welfare services in their new service units also apply evidence-based methodological bases for customer work that support the provision of a personalised service and contribute to the respect of the rights of users of services and their involvement in decision-making processes related to services. The public limited liability company has also developed its staff working with the special care target group, the services provided have been developed on the basis of links with the community and investments in the creation of personalised service places. These activities have shown that Welfare services have been guided by the principles of deinstitutionalisation in their activities. Question 2: 'Why are the projects financed by the ERDF, submitted by AS Hoolekandeteenused, intended to cover the part of the own contribution from the state budget, while all the other project performers had to guarantee their own funding from their own resources? Does ensuring self-financing from the state budget to AS Hoolekandeteenused create a more favourable starting position for them than other applicants, and has this violated the principle of equal treatment? ' An inquiry claims that the public limited liability company has an advantage over other service providers in so far as its own contribution is covered by the State in respect of the application for ERDF funds. However, the ERDF grants shall be granted on the basis that the holding must be covered by the owner. The care provider is owned by the State. The general principle is that if support is granted by the private sector, co-financing will not be supported, i.e. the State will not provide funds to non-state-owned service providers to cover their own shares. It is important to understand that the ERDF share (85%) goes to real estate investments and generates assets for the applicant. The applicant shall be obliged to use the assets for the provision of that service for a period of at least 20 years. Later on, there are no restrictions on the use of the asset, although it will hopefully be used for this particular purpose in the longer term. The remaining assets remain the property of the applicant, i.e. in the case of a public limited company, generally the property of the State, and in other cases they remain the property of the other applicants. If I mistakenly said in Riigikogu Question Time that others do not have to do this for 20 years, I will now adjust it. My argument is still that everyone is subject to the same requirement: for 20 years this service must be provided there. This means that if the time dimension of the limitation disappears, the property remains the owner of the asset. If a non-profit organisation or local government uses it in one way or another, the state will no longer have a say, i.e. the property is already its property and can use it in other ways. I believe that, if the situation were different, the second question from the floor would also be that why this own contribution will be financed if it is not possible to ensure that it will later remain in the same use of the property. Question 3: 'The investment grant application (the project contest) requires both the fulfilment of the health and accessibility requirements, while the assessment fails to identify compliance/non-compliance. Why were compliance with these requirements not assessed? ' Both health and accessibility requirements are addressed in all projects. As is known, sites which do not meet the health protection requirements cannot be authorised. They shall be subject to surveillance. These requirements must be guaranteed in all places. Universal monitoring of accessibility is not foreseen, but at the same time the changes resulting from projects in this area have a more significant impact. New service units arising from the reorganisation of existing large institutions must allow for a more individual approach and the service must also be accessible to persons with reduced mobility. Beneficiaries have been repeatedly informed of different requirements and compliance with them is part of the successful implementation of the project. The preparation of an evaluation guide is a long process. The guide was discussed with the service providers and also submitted to the sectoral Commission. Projects were assessed on the basis of a total of more than 20 criteria, including an assessment of the purpose, necessity and average cost of the project. The notified investment plan was approved by the Government at the beginning of January. Taking account of accessibility requirements in the establishment of welfare institutions is a basic requirement established in the Building Code and must be met. According to § 11 (2) (8) of the Construction Code, the special needs of disabled persons must be taken into account, where appropriate, for the buildings to be built. Since this is a care facility, it is certainly appropriate to take into account the special needs of disabled people. § 7 of the Construction Code states that the building must be designed and constructed and maintained in accordance with good practice. Therefore, although there is currently no regulation which provides for specific accessibility requirements, good practice must be implemented in accordance with § 7 of the Construction Code, which in this case means regulation previously in force since no new regulation has been introduced. If there is evidence that this has not been taken into account in one case or another, then we are grateful for the information. Question 4: 'Does the State intend to direct new customers to 200 additional so-called new service places, i.e. people living in homes today or priority customers in the DI process? " This is the place that raised questions in the introductory text of the inquiry, and there must be a misunderstanding. But I'll answer it. The sole objective of reorganisation is not to deinstitutionalise, but to work side by side and there will be no separate priority. Deinstitutionalisation does not queue new people who would have shifted priority in terms of access to the service, even though this request has been expressed by 200 new service providers involved in the creation of a service place with ERDF funding. If some places are made community-based and some remain round-the-clock, customers will therefore move during the reorganisation process. These 200 places, which are quite new, are still filled with queued customers, which is, as you said, they come from home or elsewhere. However, yes, there are also the opposite things, where you probably have to figure out and think about how to find good solutions. If, for example, the local government creates places, then we should fill them out in order. It's a problem taking it that way. But this is a situation that comes from the general order. This has not meant customers relocated during the reorganisation process. Question 5: 'This year there are 7026 service places in special care (SKA statistics), of which only 5546 are covered by budgetary resources in 2017. The State plans to finance only those service sites that were filled as of 1.02.2017. This means that new customers will not be able to enter the service, although the need for the use of service points is increasing. In what circumstances were the service providers informed retroactively on 10 February that only those services that had been completed at that point in time would be financed from 1 February 2017? By doing so, the State will provide misleading signals to the public regarding the number of service places (7026) if they are not effectively accessible to a whole of 1480 service places. " Here is now the place where a misconception has arisen. Currently, 7027 special care has 5546 people at a service site financed by the state budget. Many people receive several supportive services at once to better cope with everyday activities and activities or living and working in the community. So, with budgetary resources, all these places are covered, but the people who get this service are 5,000 and a little bit more. The Ministry of Social Affairs agrees that there are more persons in need of special care services than the state budget funds allow to finance. In order to finance new locations, the Ministry applies for additional resources from the state budget. At the same time, it should be stressed that in a special care system, a person moves to a service provider of his choice, so the Social Insurance Board cannot guarantee that the seats of each service provider are filled. On the ground of internship, it can be said that there are service providers to whom people have wanted to go more over the years and whose services are also highly valued. The budget for special care services has increased from year to year. EUR 25.18 million will be used this year, compared to EUR 17.5 million in 2013. In the last four years, additional funding has been provided for 2102 service places. Since many new places have been funded from the budget over the last few years and the budget has been so-called "booked," this year no new places will be created, but funding will continue to be available. Each month, the use of the budget is monitored and decisions on whether to finance new places can also be taken. Question 6: 'All service providers have undertaken the ERDF projects to create new service places (e.g. buy apartments) and to complete them within 20 years. If the new service place created remains empty, i.e. the State does not direct customers to the service, the service provider will incur unplanned costs. For one small apartment, the annual cost is 1200 euros. Does the State assume its responsibility for the execution of new service sites created under the ERDF? ' Filling in the service place is the responsibility of the service provider in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board. For service providers, it is important now and in the future that they have people to offer services to. It is therefore important to build service places where they are currently lacking and where there is a community of considerable size, so that there is a need for service in the future. The aid application also included that places should be built in settlements with a larger population. It is unwise to set up service places in areas where there may no longer be a need for these services in the 20-year perspective. In order to contribute to positive changes for the special care target group, we consider it important that the investments made receive the necessary application throughout the mandatory use period of 20 years and beyond. This is expected to take place in cooperation between the local government, the state and the Social Insurance Board. From a regional perspective, the call for applications passed positively, as more services are being created in larger centres where there has been a huge lack of accommodation services so far. The Ministry of Social Affairs does not consider it justified to fill preferably service places established under the ERDF, compared to 100% self-financing service places established. When setting up service sites, the applicant is obliged to assess the potential risks and to plan appropriate mitigation measures. I can read the seventh question: 'If a person is legally entitled to receive a service (all necessary documents have been submitted to the SKA, the need for a service has been assessed and a suitable place of service is available near the home place), what legislation can the Social Insurance Board refuse to refer to the service? How long are the order of special care services per service in the last three years (please indicate by year)? ' Can I continue to answer, or can someone help me with a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U220	You can continue to answer when questions are asked, there is more time. I am now giving the floor to Külliki Hatter to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U221	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have a bit of a suspicious feeling that there were minor contradictions to the previous questioning. I'd like to get some explanations. You gave an example of Kodijärv, which is on the road to my country home. Kodijärve has basically only a bus stop, Otepää has 12 kilometres, dental care is available there, the rest of the services are available 29 kilometres away in Tartu. I don't get it. What's the logic here? In addition, you have come up with the condition that euro money cannot be used to create services unless there are at least 300 inhabitants in the settlement. This means that if the nursing home stays a hundred metres away from the settlement's border, it is not possible to establish it there. What directives do you rely on when you say that this would be contrary to European Union requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U222	Thank you. I will answer your question first and then take the opportunity to answer the seventh question of inquiry. This is the funding that has taken place at several stages. I believe that the honourable Riigikogu and the government during the previous period, when these changes were being prepared, understood that more places need to be created where they are not presently there. These activities have taken place in several stages. The previous inquiry was not submitted by you, but those who submitted it were themselves in the government when these rates, claims and principles were determined. So the Estonian state has developed and made new and better decisions. But now I'm taking this opportunity to pick up where I left off. Question No 7 was asked what are the options for refusing to provide services, what are the queues and when can be queued. The Social Insurance Institution can assign a service to a person if the law says so in the state budget, the funds are available to provide a special care service to the person and the special care service provider to whom the person wishes to receive the service has a vacant place. This is stated in § 71 (1) of the Social Welfare Act. Paragraph 10 of the same section states that if there is no available budgetary resources and no desired free place, the person will be placed in the queue. That is the legal basis on which this is done. The ordering, presence and movement are described in § 76 of the same Act. Now I will read out the queues by service in the last three years. I believe it is informative when I also say how many places have been filled now in financial terms, it shows the overall scale of how many more places have been created for this service in four years. Day-to-day support service: 138 people were in line in 2015, 116 in 2016 and 103 people are currently in line, 2375 seats have been filled and 880 seats have been completed in four years. Working support service: 166 in line in 2015, 148 in 2016 and currently 164 in number, 790 in budget and 790 in number and 424 in four years. Supported housing service: there were 189 and 189 people in the order of the two years and 200 people in the order of the year, 879 seats filled and 362 more places in the last four years have been completed. Community housing service: 90 people were in line in 2015, 113 in 2016 and 167 people are currently in line, 269 seats have been filled and 153 seats have been completed in four years. A 24-hour special care service: 383 and 400 people were in line, 502 people are now in line, 2115 people are currently in service and 143 seats have been completed in four years. A 24-hour special care service for people with unstable remission mental disorder: 7 and 13 people were in line and 12 people are currently in line, 100 seats are filled and 42 seats have been completed in four years. A 24-hour special care service for people with deep composite disabilities: 49 and 57 people in the queue and now 70 people, 365 seats filled and 88 more in the last four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U223	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The first question I had about this question is this: will you cooperate with the Institute of the Estonian Language? The word 'deinstitutionalisation' is true, if repeated seven times, then mental disorders begin to develop themselves. Maybe there's some way to say it softer? But if you already have this round of back-up questions, I have to repeat the previous question. Where, however, is the requirement that the provision of the service can be opened at an populated point with at least 300 inhabitants? How rigid is it to be implemented? Indeed, it seems very absurd that if this place is half a kilometre or a kilometer away from this settlement, it cannot be done. Where does this rigidity come from? What Euronorm are you referring to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U225	Yes, instead of deinstitutionalising it, it is easier to say 'DI', isn't it, or 'non-institutional', then these s's and i's get a little less than that. But there is no Euronorm that would say that so many kilometres from there and so many from there. There are no euro standards, but when we prepare this programme, we have, entirely in our country, the criteria made of our own wisdom to ensure that these customers do not get too much in any community. The number of customers should be of such size that it can be assumed that there are other lives that these customers could interact with. As I said, in the next round it will certainly be quite appropriate and sensible to review it all in a more flexible way, because it is now being looked at, I understand so, how to reorganize large centres, where the volumes are bigger and perhaps the questions are bigger. We need to look further at the individual bottlenecks and regions where perhaps these places have not yet been created, because they have not succeeded there, and the services that are needed. There is certainly more need for community services, as there is also greater demand for them. It makes more sense if a person receives a community service where possible, not a 24-hour service, because a person's quality of life is better, has a more dignified life and is more reasonable financially. So this flexibility comes from ourselves, but it has been agreed that this is the principle of using this money, and one way to do it is to reorganize large nursing homes in such a way that customers can have an environment in which they can participate actively in society according to their abilities. The other direction is DI, i.e. people can use more either supported living or community living services so that they can organise their lives with minimal outside help and intervention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U226	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I wonder what happens when this person turns 63. As is well known, the special care service has been publicly funded for the age of 18 to 63. When the retirement age begins, does the person have to start asking for local government assistance or go back to his or her family? Is that a thought? There are already smaller houses and people think about how to create a home environment, but what happens when it gets 63?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U228	Thank you. There's two sides. The 63rd is in our circumstances, you could say, mobile size, but here's the question, yes, and the really painful question is what happens next. Special care is intended for persons of working age and, according to the general principle, this person should receive general care. What happens next is that we don't have that very thought through right now, but we need a reasonable transition. So you have to figure it out here anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U229	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U230	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I will, however, return to the establishment of special care facilities in densely populated areas. We have discussed this repeatedly in the Committee on Social Affairs. The officials have just pointed out that this is a demand under the conditions of the European Union. For example, the parents of children with special needs planned a special care home for their children in Nõnova village in Võrumaa; they invested 45000 euros to prepare for the detailed planning and architecture of buildings, with the knowledge and recommendation of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but they could not participate in this competition because Võru is 11 kilometres away and the Lasva municipality where they are located lives more than 1000 people, but their project would not have qualified. Could Nõnova still run for office in the next round?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U231	I am indebted to the answer on this point how precisely European money has been recorded in the general European directives. I do not think it is spelled out in detail there, but if this money has been requested, there have been fine-tuned agreements for which it can be requested and under what conditions. However, as a minister, I would not take the courage to say at this point in the case of a specific project that it could be eligible in the second round. All these bottlenecks and the considerations on which the second round should meet are currently being examined. Then the details will probably be clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U232	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U233	Thank you. In your answer to the first question, you have identified alleged success projects in the deinstitutionalisation or reorganisation of special care services. I am interested in what this assessment of success is based on and whose assessment it is or whose view it is made. Is it also based on the views and interests of the residents of nursing homes? I would point out, at least, that there is also the problem of people of old age.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U234	Thank you. Of course, this assessment is based on the view of the customers, how happy they are, how satisfied they are with their impressions and satisfaction with the service, and also on the satisfaction of their loved ones with this service. Activities that aim to allow customers to interact normally with society, realise themselves within their capabilities and exploit their potential are also important. Surely this assessment is based on it. What is the care of people of retirement age is not to organise welfare services. It's still a national issue, and this is where the state has to face itself, not a public limited company. These are two separate processes. But it is good that you asked about the activities of the Welfare Services, because the central issue of this inquiry is what their services are like. I am happy to stress that, if there is the impression that the services of the Welfare Service have taken in the lion's share of these services and somehow have too much in their hands, it must be said that the fact that the Welfare Services are a relatively large institution is the result of this historical peculiarity that we had many large welfare institutions. They were either in the custody of the county government or other state agencies, and at some point they were all concentrated in the care services. After all, the situation in these institutions was rather complicated, many of them in large manor houses and complexes. Going away from these places has been a big but necessary job. Care services have also taken the direction that they adopt customers into normal life. Currently, a quarter of 24-hour service places have become community service places. The interest of a public limited liability company is by no means to do all this alone or to keep this service to itself. In this round, too, he collaborated with some local authorities, who took the services of living in the community on their own shoulders and made these places themselves. There is no principle that care services should have everything. In terms of numbers, it is precisely everyone else that has increased the number of places in proportion to the number of places. For example, we look at the number of special welfare services that support: in 2007, the public limited liability company had 547 seats and the other seats had 1700 seats, these are the support services that are the least favourable, but in 2016, the public limited company had only 146 seats and all other places had 3898 seats in total. So the number of places for all other service providers has increased. In the same way, there are places to live in the community. While in 2007 there were 43 of them all over Estonia, currently 156 of them are in the hands of the public limited company and 113 are in the hands of other institutions. As I said, the places currently being created, which is 200, are all places for non-profit or local governments. So this side keeps growing. According to the state budget, the public limited company has the largest volume, but, as I mentioned, this is because of its historical heritage: there were 1807 seats in 2007 and 1861 seats in 2016, and 431 and 822 seats in the hands of other service providers. Perhaps the number of other service providers has doubled; the company has remained more or less the same. At the very least, if you look at the total number of service places in the Welfare Service, there is such a change that the number of places in their hands is actually falling all the time: in 2010, they had 2466 service places and the forecast is such that by 2020 they will be 1781. It can be seen that this reduction is huge, and it is these heavier places that they are holding, the community living service and supporting services that are going away from the public limited company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U235	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U236	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I apologise if my question goes a little out of the question of questioning, but it still falls within the scope of our general issue. Children and young people with mental disorders do not fit into this special care service, which has been discussed more closely today. They're not about the orphan, are they? What do the government and the ministry intend to do with these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U237	The thing about children is that at school, this service is now better organised than at a later date. Rather, the question is, if the graduation diploma is received, what will happen then? However, schools for children with special needs have been set up in a consistent manner, and the situation here is not to be reprehensible. Rather, it is now a question of funding, whether the local authority or the state is paying. Here again is the example that I myself come from a local government that has always made proposals to the state to contribute more to the financing of schools for children with special needs. The Supreme Court's decision has now come, which places greater obligations on the state here. So here's the rather question of who's covering it with money, but the education side is pretty well covered here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U238	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U239	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My ladies and gentlemen, Liina Kersna and Jüri Jaanson, asked questions about this 300-person border. To make this clear, I say: the European Union really has not imposed, as you said, any such restrictions. We checked it with both Marju Lauristin and Kaja Kallas. But this is a decree signed on 14 September 2015 by No 42, signed by the true Minister for Social Protection, Margus Tsahkna. This regulation deals with the reorganisation of special care, and that is the rate of 300. The founders of Mary's solar home were particularly concerned at the time, which is very close to the city of Tartu and where all services are available. This criterion follows from that regulation. It was said that in the second round it was possible for others to apply for money. Is this second round coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U240	Thank you. Then I'm glad I was on the right track. Yeah, the second round is coming up, and we definitely want to be implemented this year. As I said, such large centres are already being reorganized and the aim is to target them more accurately and according to more flexible rules. I was referring to the fact that we have places that, by nature, must be somewhere else, for example, where there is agricultural production or, as you mentioned, where modern centres are built, where it might make sense to build something more. It will then be based on individual needs and individual reasons. We have discussed this, and I think it is very necessary to take this individual approach. But the goal shouldn't be that we, say, just create a new place for the field. There should be some particular reason why this place is better than any other place near human habitation. There must be some very specific communications, some services, there should be something already created or there should be specific regional specificities. But this is certainly the second round of 'flexicurity', where we are trying to remove bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U241	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! People of working age and dementia. It is usually thought that dementia is an old person's disease, but it is no longer the case today; it can also occur in a person of working age. According to the international functional classification, this is a mental disorder, which should be able to receive special care services. At the same time, the diagnosis of dementia as an exclusionary diagnosis, that is, if a person's diagnosis is dementia and he or she is of working age, it is as if he or she should not receive services. Do you think this situation is right and reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U243	I consider it reasonable to have all those in need receive it. Whether they get it one way, another way or third, maybe it's not that important. I know that specialists are also analyzing it, and a little bit of arguing about how to deal with dementia and its varying degrees of severity, but the main objective, of course, should be that all those in need receive a service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U244	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U245	Mr President! A good minister and few MPs are in the hall! Let me take a little look back, because I have been personally involved in the development of special care services for quite a few years. That's a very close subject to me. In 1997, when special public care services did not yet exist, they were developed as pilot projects in Tartu. Special care has been an area of history, as we have all heard here today, which has been dealt with by a hilled and shaded mystery and, in fact, by a fear story. The target group we have been talking about today, with mental disorder and intellectually impaired people, was indeed for decades in sheltered homes and large institutions in the depths of forests, which were more of a combinated detention facility, where residents lived in isolation from a wider community or were forced to live with other people. Often people who have lived in a care establishment lack control over their lives, in fact, the right to decide their own lives. Thirdly, the requirements of the organisation or service provider were often more important there than the individual needs of the population. Since the late 1990s, more and more attention has been paid to the rights and services of people with special psychiatric needs. Special care has developed well since the Võisik care home started taking customers to Põlva City, where they started receiving community-based services that did not go in pain at all, and when the Tartu Mental Health Care Centre in cooperation with the NGO Independent Life was initiated based on Canadian and Swedish models as a community living service. The state began to pay particular attention to this issue since 2002 when appropriate legislative changes were introduced. Reorganization was achieved in 2006, i.e. more than ten years ago, when, with the help of the European Union's structural support, the construction of 550 new accommodation and service places across Estonia was carried out for people with mental and special needs who lived in old depressed manor buildings. All over Estonia Hoolekandeteenused has created family villages in 11 places over the years, with a total of 55 houses. Indeed, these are very nice, nice and customer-centred institutions. In the same way as in the previous programming period, the ERDF, during the current programming period, will focus on the Welfare services with the greatest responsibility and responsibility. They need to reorganize six large nursing homes and create 1,200 new service places. After all, it is very important for the country to ensure the diversity and accessibility of services for the target group, as well as freedom of choice. Now a few comments to the Minister's answers. In the framework of the open competition for the development of services, Welfare services and local authorities competed with their sub-offices and, in fact, the third sector. This is only to be welcomed, because we need both highly developed services from large institutions and solutions from the third sector, precisely to ensure diversity, because not all people want to live in a city, just as everyone does not want to live in a country, because it is not inherent to them. Unfortunately, however, there is misunderstanding and resentment as to why the state still thinks that the best and most reliable service provider is a public limited company (there you can see the direction of the state), not a local government or an NGO. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U246	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U247	The most disturbing thing is where such an attitude comes from, that the state knows and decides what is best and how to design and provide services, while the laws are the same for everyone. That's where we get to that 15% stake. I still do not understand exactly why the Ministry of Social Affairs has taken the view that 15% of the own funding retained by the project implementing agencies will be covered from the state budget only in the case of Hoolekandeteenused. The Minister replied that it was a public limited company. But here I think is the question mark. It is a public limited company, which is a profit-making company, i.e. a commercial company. After all, a public limited liability company should not have a problem financing its own shares, whereas non-profit institutions created by the parents of small children find it difficult to find this money from their own resources. I am still of the same conviction as I was at the time of the question of questioning the opinion of other applicants, too, that unequal conditions of competition between applicants have been created in this situation. This is how the state acts against the objectives it has set itself, because it reduces the diversity and diversity of services. Similarly, I will mention today's dispute that we have had here over these 300 inhabitants. I am not going to go over this again, but I am saying that the Committee on Social Affairs has done its utmost to create a slightly more flexible system so that there is no 300 people's borders, but, for example, to see whether services are available within a seven or ten kilometres radius. We are proud of our e-governance. Today it has not been very talked about, but special care services are provided by more than 100 service providers and we have over 7 000 service places, while we have problems getting an overview of the queues. I find it incomprehensible why we have not been able to create an electronic and up-to-date queue system from which the needy, his family and the local social worker can see very quickly, how many times this person is in the order of one nursing home or another and how far his queue is at all. If such development were made, it would also be easier for the Ministry and the Social Insurance Board to organise their work. We've done a lot, but there's a lot more to do. When we think about the target group that has been spoken about today, it is important to understand that decisions concerning their lives are made prudently, in a sustainable and gradual manner, moving from a service with greater support to a service with less support. The client's abilities, organisation, habits and health must be kept in mind, not just this purpose, for example, to take all people from Sõmera to Kuressaare, Tallinn or Võrumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U248	Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations. We're done answering the last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-06_U249	Now, however, all those who wish to do so have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. I wish everyone a lovely evening. Closure of the sitting at 20.20 a.m.
