ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the third working week of the VIth plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Please, who has a wish? Heili Tõnisson, please, on behalf of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the State Budget Act of 2017. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and related other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior. Third, the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and related amendments to other laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. And fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when processing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U3	I have adopted five draft laws. Under the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will proceed with them. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are here, 20 are somewhere else. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the third working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. There is a proposal to stick to the established parliamentary practice in drawing up and approving the agenda that the first items on Wednesday are those which need a final vote. This Wednesday, however, is the second item on the agenda, and our group has a proposal to change the first and second items on the Wednesday agenda, i.e. to move the second item to the first item and the second item to the second item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U5	Got it! Dear Riigikogu, with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 79 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, there are two abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U6	Now, after the hammer hit, there's a free microphone. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U7	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I was moved to speak today and to speak at the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I was there as an alternate, replacing Toomas Vitsut. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was such an interesting thing that, as certain deadlines fell, reform parties Hanno Pevkur and Valdo Randpere went very hard on the committee's chairman, Jaanus Karilaid, to break the law and push one of the draft laws later. I mean, the state ordered a violation of the law. Now I'm going to generalize: 28 Siits Street, syringe point. Citizen's insane opposition, pickets to the cooperative's house will be made a syringe exchange point, which will later become a methadone substitution centre, etc., etc. Counting people's opinions: zero! Nobody cares what the community thinks. The injection site for the first week is already working. It's nobody's business. They say everything's covered by the law. Which law, you don't know. I will continue to generalise. Eight years ago, the city hall was sold and investments in the building were stopped. Finally, the state agreed with the city that investments would be fifty-fifty, or split. Someone had a problem with that. It's not a national matter, it's a city thing! Eight years ago, the city hall started to be sold, but eight years ago, there hasn't been much going on there, so what should I do before the sale?! Let him be like this, the buyer will come and do it! The city hall, as you all know, was full of all sorts of obscenes and disgustings, and all sorts of things had been drawn on it. Four years ago, we started a project with a studio in Pirado. We thought we'd cover the building with beautiful pictures. Then the idea died out because the situation was completely different. Now this project has been restarted. In March, it took place in the council of the city hall, etc. Eventually, these obscenes were covered with high graphics. There were agreements, but there was a violation of the law: according to the law of heritage conservation, it was considered to be a violation of the monument. Violation, however, is the kind of thing that has to screw something up, so it's like a violation. It's more like we were defending. The law is for everyone to do, and we will do it. At the same time, certain associations in the Committee on Legal Affairs require that the Riigikogu, the highest legislative body, knowingly violate the law. In the case of the Heritage Protection Act, however, it is said that no distinction can be made. In fact, it compares things that cannot be compared. The facade of the decaying city hall has been declared unfit by experts. Architect Karp has said it cannot be restored, it must be replaced. Our excellent Tallinn heerold says that this maceration is absolute nonsense, academician Raukas says lively that it is an absolutely pointless activity that is currently being done. But the washing started this morning. And now I ask, where is the wise state? Is it possible that someone would order a violation of the law and someone would do a beautiful thing, a beautiful thing to preserve something worth preserving? There are three points. Last Thursday, artists petitioned. Let us hope that this time the opinion of the people will be taken into account. That petition, or popular initiative, was signed correctly and there were thousands of these signatures. We are representatives of the people, then consider the opinion of the people and defend the painting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-25_U8	There's no more word in the free microphone. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3.10 p.m.
