ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the 6th working week of the V plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U2	Honourable Chairman! Happy New Week, everybody! Members of the Free Party Group will submit to Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis an inquiry into the well-founded desire of villages to change self-governance. Indeed, the reform of self-government or the administrative-territorial reform has led to a number of doubts. Villages have already proposed legally allowed initiatives at the beginning of last year to join the municipalities that do not want them. We will also give examples of our questions. There are villages in Ambla municipality that would like to join Tapa rural municipality, different villages in Puka rural municipality want to join some of the three new municipalities, and Pärnu County also has the same topic. Since several laws have been adopted in the meantime, there has been confusion, which is the legal basis for all this and how it should be acted upon. It would therefore make sense for the Chancellor of Justice to give us some explanations, as he has already done to the people of Soontaga. We would also like to know if anything has changed since the people of Soontaga's village turned and the letter from the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U3	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U4	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Together with several colleagues, I am going to pass on an inquiry from the Reform Party Group to the Minister for Finance, Sven Sester. The Chancellor of Justice reportedly issued a position last week in which he declared an additional increase in alcohol duty to be incompatible with the Constitution. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws adopted at the end of last year must be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The Riigikogu has the opportunity to initiate a legislative amendment within 20 days in order to resolve the constitutional situation. If the Riigikogu does not do so, the Chancellor of Justice will probably turn to the Supreme Court. If the law establishing an increase in the abovementioned additional excise duty is abolished in the Riigikogu or in legal proceedings, the question arises of its impact on the state budget. The Government Union made public the budgetary changes to the economic and fiscal policy programme agreed in November last year. They show that for 2017 and 2018, the Government Union Agreement foresees additional costs of EUR 48 million and EUR 237 million respectively. These costs were covered by additional measures, one of which was an additional increase in excise duties on beer, cider and wine. This measure was to generate additional tax revenue in the state budget of EUR 25 million in 2017 and EUR 58 million in the following year. As a result, we have a number of questions. First of all, when the State takes on additional financial commitments, the Minister of Finance has a duty to state what sources these costs will be covered. The question is also that there have been other changes to the so-called budgetary impact table in the meantime, resulting in...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U5	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U6	...the sources of revenue have decreased. We have five questions to answer from the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U7	The inquiry was handed over. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group is pleased to hand over a draft decision of the Riigikogu, and more specifically a draft proposal to amend the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities'. In particular, we have a committee of concern for state reform, the vice-chairman of which, Arto Aas, is extremely capable and certainly able to perform the duties of the vice-chairman of both committees. However, we would like to allow Arto Asa to focus primarily on issues of state reform and to give Kalle Laanet the opportunity to deal with the issue of supervision of security authorities. That is how we propose the appointment of Mr Kalle Laane as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities in place of Mr Aasa. An alternate member of the same commission could be Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U9	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U10	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Eight members of the Free Party Group will use the opportunity to submit an enquiry to the Auditor General regarding the possible removal of the National Defence Academy. In a letter sent to Prime Minister Ansip in 2013, the Auditor General published his critical opinion on the removal of the National Defence Academy and the construction of a new building complex in Ida-Virumaa. At the time, the Auditor General wrote that, in the context of a shortage of public funds, it is not justified to plan large educational investments separately from strategic decisions on education. He was of the opinion that the transfer of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County was of little effect as a regional policy measure. We wonder if now that the issue has come up again in the government led by Jüri Ratas, something has changed. What is the current position of the Auditor General? We have four questions. In what way does the planned move affect the quality of education provided at the National Defence Academy and the achievement of the objectives of the higher education strategy? What are the costs? What additional sources of revenue does the Government of the Republic intend to finance this project? And while we all know that Ida-Virumaa needs to develop, the signatories ask whether taking the Academy of Interior to Ida-Virumaa is the best way to give a boost to development or if there are other, perhaps more effective ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U11	I have adopted one draft and three inquiries on behalf of the Bureau, and we will decide how to deal with them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the sixth working week of the V plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U12	Our first item is the inquiry by Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõm, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Andres Herkel and Andres Ammas. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U13	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good people's representatives! On 18 January, members of the Free Party Group submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The question concerns the administrative reform and, if it is specified, the name of a new merged municipality. In Tartu, the municipalities of Mäksa, Haaslava and Võnnu joined voluntarily, with pleasure, considering such a merger to be both reasonable and necessary. These three municipalities are known to be located in the historic parish of Võnnu. The parish of Võnnu is one of our oldest parishes. In 2009 the Estonian National Museum, in cooperation with the Road Administration, placed the labels of cultural history parishes across Estonia so that local residents could identify themselves with the historical parish and, if they so wish, familiarize themselves with systematic interpretations of ethnographic collections, folklore collections and cultural collections in all our museums. It is known that cultural historical parishes have been the basis for the systematization of our folk tradition throughout the ages. It was all very nice, and the local people, as far as they could, did not all agree, but to a large extent agreed among themselves that Võnnu would be the new name of the three municipalities. Võnnu is known to be a very old name. Our linguists, led by Matthias Johann Eisen, Wiedemann and Julius Mägistega, could still name these names, and they did very thoroughly study the name Võnnu, but they did not come to a very uniform understanding of the etymology of the name. It is clear that the name of Võnnu has history, is the sense of the local people themselves or their home. This is reflected in all relevant materials. However, at the will of the local authorities, only two names were given to the referendum: South-East Tartu and Kastre. Somehow Võnnu's name wasn't considered at all. The only reason I've heard is that one of the merging parishes now bears Võnnu's name, and it's like it's unfair to others that the name of the new parish becomes the name of one of the present parishes. This reasoning seems very sought, but it is very modern. Today, we tend very quickly to propose something new and unprecedented and forget that we have very respectable names that we have cultural heritage. All of us who are here today and are also doing administrative reform are obliged to learn, study, learn and respect what has been much before us. The parish government conducted a public survey quickly, but, as I said, only two names were proposed: South-East Tartu and Kastre. The cavities were completely discarded. The people immediately also voted for their vote, and the result was that 531 people still wanted to be called Võnnut. Here are our questions. There are six of them, and they draw attention to how much we respect our old, honourable place names and, at the same time, the will of the local people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U14	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U15	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! First of all, if I may, I would like to thank the members of the Free Party Group for having been asked a lot of questions, both to me and to the Minister for Public Administration, which will keep a close eye on an important issue such as the administrative reform. Through my response, I will be able, and, of course, other members of the government will also have the opportunity to explain this issue from this country's most important chair and to hold a discussion on administrative reform. Thank you sincerely. As the representative of the heirs did not read the questions, if you will allow me, I will read the question and then answer it. I'm on it. The first question: 'Why is it not consciously one of the objectives of administrative reform to preserve history, social memory and local cohesion names where possible, even though a strong tradition of place names is one of the beams of our traditional culture? ' I'm of a different opinion here. Namely, according to the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory Act and the Place Name Act, the municipality is designated and the Government of the Republic decides to change the name, asking for the opinion of the House Name Council in advance. The Board shall be composed of representatives of public authorities, local government associations and research institutions. It has to be said that § 71 (4) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act states: "The change of the name of the administration unit is decided by the Government of the Republic. ' According to § 5 (2) of the Law on Placenames, the local administration is designated by the Government of the Republic on the basis of the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory Act. In the merger application, the merging municipalities also submitted to the government a proposal for the name of the municipality to be formed, which was to be based on the name selection requirements of the Place Name Act. What are these? They are as follows: the name must be in Estonian, the same names must be avoided, the name must not be vulgar or derogatory or misleading, etc. And it was necessary to provide a justification on the basis of historical, geographical, natural and other conditions and to take into account the wishes of the rural municipality or city dwellers. In addition, the local naming council has drawn up guidelines for the choice of the appropriate name, pointing out that the names of parishes and old parishes, the names of rural municipalities or the territory of rural municipalities joining a prominent natural name should be preferred. The name of the municipality could be eloquent and short, but with history. Since the name of the municipality is determined by the Government of the Republic, the government decided to intervene only in the case of municipalities where the name agreed by the municipality was contrary to the opinion of the local names council. In most cases, the names of the municipalities to be formed are the place names related to the historical regions, the names of the parishes or centres and the names of the places known for a long time. Examples include Põltsamaa, Tori, Otepää, Põlva, Saaremaa, Türi, Mustvee. In most cases, 78% of the cases, the name of the merged municipality becomes the name of one of the merging municipalities, including those cases where the city becomes a rural municipality. For example, the municipality of Elva, the municipality of Valga, the municipality of Valga. For some of the municipalities to be formed, the merged municipalities are from several large parishes and it has been found that the name of one parish cannot be extended to the whole of the merged municipality. In some cases, the Centre's name has never been designated as a larger region, and this is not justified at the present time. The second question: 'Who is responsible for the conscious loss of place names bearing the history, identity and cultural history of the people for day-to-day policy purposes, as is the case with Võnnu? ' Võnnu's name does not disappear, although Võnnu's parish will disappear upon the merger. Võnnu as an administrative unit, Võnnu's village remains. The name of the Võnnu parish will also remain as an official place name. The third question: "Why is the wish of the inhabitants of the three merging parishes that the name of the new parish will be Võnnu not taken into account? Why do people go against the will of the local people, even though they speak for history and this day? " The Mayor of Haaslava Municipality, Priit Lomp, has explained that in the Steering Committee for the Accession Negotiations, which was composed of representatives of Haaslava, Mäksa and Võnnu Municipality Council, all parties agreed at the first meetings that the name of any existing municipality would not be used as the name of any new municipality to be formed. The purpose of this decision was to treat the inhabitants of the municipalities equally and to avoid a situation where the names of the existing municipalities are put to a referendum. After all, the advantage would be the largest municipality, because there are just the most residents living there. The committee voted on the choice of name at its meeting in December, where in addition to the name of Kastre, which had been selected as a popular poll, Võnnu and Kurepalu were also selected in a public poll. This is because the local residents had submitted signatures in support of these names. As a result of the Commission's vote, it was decided that the municipality to be created would be called Kastre. Since the chosen name of the local governments is not in conflict with the law on the name of the place, the choice was confirmed by the Government of the Republic. Question 4: 'Why are the panel of specialists, the recommendation of the House Names Council, ignored in relation to the name of the municipality? Who (please name it) takes the right to object to both the wishes of the locals and the culture of tradition, i.e. who owns our history and place names? " Indeed, the seat name council preferred the name of Võnnu rural municipality as the name of the municipality to be formed, which the surrounding municipalities themselves had ruled out. I stress that the municipalities that joined Võnnu themselves had ruled out the name of Võnnu. At the same time, the name of Kastre was accepted as an alternative name by the Council. I quote the decision of the House Name Council: 'The district of Kastre could be considered as a second option. It is also a historical name, a historical and landscape center of focus, not as a center of attraction. " In such a dilemma, the government considered it important to consider the name selection of volunteers. Municipal councils made a decision in favour of the name Kastre, confirming the Accession Treaty and the application for accession by the name of Kastre. The municipal councils therefore chose the name on the spot. Question 5: "How and by what is the place name more suitable for Kastre Ühtvalla than the name of the historical parish centre Võnnu? " The government took into account the opinion of the House Names Council, which gave the choice, and took into account the proposal put forward by the municipalities. Võnnu's name is historical and important, but it is certainly not right to claim that there was only one right choice. The recommendations for selecting a place name state that in addition to the names of the parishes and centres, the names of the smaller regions can also be used if they unite the parishes. Kastre has been named after the old Estonian fortress, a name bigger than that. Kastre is also the name of the old parish: at the beginning of the 20th century the parish of Kastre and Võnnu was merged and then the municipality of Kastre and Võnnu became the name of the municipality until the 1938 rural reform. Question 6: "How and in what way does this example of Võnnu express the Coalition's promise to take into account the opinion and democratic decision of the local population in the implementation of administrative reform? ' Allow me once again to use Priit Lomb's explanation. On 4 and 5 December, a public survey was carried out in all three merging areas to find out which name is preferred by local residents. Based on the regulations of the councils of all the merging parishes, the people were able to express their support for the names of South-East Tartu and Kastre. A total of 391 persons were elected, 86 of whom voted in favour of South-East Tartu and 223 in favour of Kastre. Repeat: 86 and 223 people. In answer to the question of why Võnnu's name was not in the vote, I say that the name of Võnnu could not be set up in the referendum, as the proposal was only received on 12 December, while the survey was already conducted on 4 and 5 December. As I pointed out above, Võnnu's name was also ruled out by the agreement of three local government councils. Thus, the three municipal councils decided to choose the name of Kastre and they confirmed the Accession Treaty and the application for accession by the name of Kastre. The government acted on the proposal submitted by the councils and since the name is not in conflict with the law on the name of the place and the merging municipality fulfils the criterion of 5000 inhabitants, the government confirmed the proposed choice of names at its meeting on 12 January. Thank you! I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U16	Andres Ammas will present the first of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U17	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! You spoke on several occasions about the lead committee that made these decisions on accession there. I hope you have well-informed materials prepared, and on this basis you can perhaps disclose to us, for the sake of history and the verbatim, who belonged to the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U18	Thank you. If you give me some time, I think I'll find those names. They're not available right now, but I'm sure I'll let you know who was there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The 537 people who signed Võnnu's name on their own initiative under the citizens' initiative very much want Võnnu's name to remain on the large parish. So, what are you gonna tell them? You mentioned that in the referendum 291 people voted for Kastre, but 537 people prefer Võnnu's name.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U21	Thank you. When I answered your question, I never opposed Võnnu and Kastret. I understand very clearly where this dispute point is. What do I say? The government can rely primarily on what the councils of the merged municipalities have proposed. At those government meetings where names were discussed, this was the most important criterion. When local government councils have proposed and, as I said, their proposal was Kastre and they ruled out Võnnu, that is what the government was about. I'm certainly not saying here to answer the question that Kastre is better than Võnnu or vice versa. We were guided by the decision of the three municipal councils, and also by the input from the local naming committee: he said that the best was Võnnu, but the alternative could also be considered for Kastret.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U22	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U23	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You have had the opportunity to distance yourself from this model of administrative reform developed by the Reform Party, which has been very narrowly based on the condition of 5,000 inhabitants and has been rejected by historical parishes. Why did you still step into the reform party boots and continue with this nonsense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U24	Thank you. That's a very good question. I began by thanking the Free Party Group for receiving the opportunity to clarify the administrative reform from this country's most important chair once again. With your question, you're giving me that chance again. What has been the most criticised for administrative reform? What we have to deny here, I have also made this criticism that the aim is only one number of 5,000, and we do not want to talk at all about other concerns that the associations of local governments want to talk about. What's the problem? The associations of local governments, both the Cities Association and the Association of Rural Governments, have raised the question of why their revenue base will not be restored every time they negotiate with the Government of the Republic since 2009. They mean both the percentage of the amount received by municipalities from personal income tax, which was once lowered from 11.93 to 11.4 and, of course, they also refer to the Equalisation Fund. The other thing is that local authorities are taking a stand, and it is also my sense that a merger cannot only take place on the basis of the 5000 criteria. Really, all tasks, all services must be distributed. As we know, the Supreme Court's decision in 2010 also said this. In fact, the administrative reform has acquired much more concrete content. First, the financial side. Local authorities have been given a clear signal: in 2018, 2019 and 2020 we will increase the income base of local governments by 30 million euros, which will ease the loss of a percentage of personal income tax. A precise financing formula is currently being developed by the Minister for Public Administration, and I think it will certainly be under discussion in the government office in the coming months. In my opinion, however, it is even more important what services and what quality the local authority will offer. I believe that if different organisations and third sector associations develop their programming documents in the near future, they will carefully consider what the central government's tasks are and what the responsibilities of these major municipalities will be. In my opinion, this is one of the most important issues of public administration. The current government wants more and more concrete commitments to go with funding to local governments. We dare say: yes, we trust local authorities. The government takes local governments as partners, not as anyone else. In fact, this request was also on the agenda a few members ago when the relations between local authorities and the state were discussed as a very important national issue. The main thing that remained at the time was that municipalities were taken as partners. It was even proposed to set up a committee to discuss relations between local governments and the state at the level of the Riigikogu. In order not only to have a general discussion, I will also bring out concrete steps. The residents of local governments have made many complaints about transport issues. It is very important that mobility opportunities become better. Now we have boldly agreed in the government that the state will provide approximately 21 million to local authorities and local authorities' transport centres, so that they can be organised free intra-regional public transport. Of course, the government will not make such a decision, but local authorities and public transport centres will have this possibility. The second issue relates to school food, which has been underfunded year after year. As we know, the price of a portion is 78 euro cents, but the government has decided that it will rise to one euro. It is up to the local authorities to ensure this. In addition, another concrete measure has been agreed, which has been on the shoulders of local authorities for years, but which has been lost by the state at central level. I mean universal funeral allowance. It has been decided, of course, that 4 million will be allocated from the budget and that this task will go to the local authorities. These are some examples of the claim that we have taken the footsteps of the previous Prime Minister's party. I say I haven't. We have given local governments real money and we have also added specific responsibilities to them. However, it cannot be said that the previous government did not work to implement the administrative reform. Certainly, the previous government took the first steps on this very important journey.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U25	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U26	Prime Minister! The government's wisdom must be commended for the careful preparation of the administrative reform to be completed. There wouldn't have been a better plan. Similarly, I believe that, as a principle, it is right to approve the name choices made by the municipality in the course of the merger. Rather, the problems have been caused by the fact that the government has not been very consistent in approving the names. In most cases, the selection of municipalities is approved, in some cases the decisions of the seat name board have been taken into account, in no case. This not very logical choice is why these questions and tensions arise. But what I'm asking you is that it's possible for local governments to change their name after a while. Why don't you explain to the audience what this should look like in the future? How can the municipality take a new name?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U27	Thank you. If you come to the names, you can indeed find some examples that the name requested by the council and the proposal of the Council and the proposal of the government are different. Let me give you an example. In Hiiu county, the name requested by the councils was Hiiumaa Parish, and the proposal of the local names council was Hiiu Parish, but this was because it could be expected that the municipalities of the whole island would join. But both the Sanctuary and Emmaste saw a different development. At the time, the government decided that it could still stay with the municipality of Hiiumaa, which was the wish of two councils, both the municipality of Hiiu and the municipality of Käina. So there are a number of examples of names. You used the formulation of a'carefully prepared administrative reform'. I didn't have any trouble praising it either, and I didn't say it wasn't the case that a new government came in and a hundred percent new administrative reform was made. However, as far as the word 'carefully' is concerned, I would like to dwell once more on the fact that the content that we have given to the municipal reform is, in particular, another. This, however, cannot be much blamed on the previous government, because it was just a different time. Now the time for change has just come. What else do I want to say about these name choices and the emergence of local governments? In fact, it has also been important what the local people think. I'll give you an example of Setomaa. At one point, the map of this area on the table was confused in the sense that it did not know whether or not to proceed with the rural municipality of Setomaa. And then Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration, took a very firm position that we would move forward as the people of the four municipalities felt appropriate. A survey was carried out with its contents, and most thought that the municipality of Setomaa might be formed. And that is the decision that has been made. In answer to your question, however, I assure you that councils can always discuss the names of local governments, including future councils. However, I think you mean what happens after the local elections, which are on 15 October this year. After that, these decisions will have to be made. However, the answer is: yes, these names can always be changed by virtue of the current law. At the same time, I do not think it is entirely practically right for us to name local governments in a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U28	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns public polls in general. A number of public surveys have been carried out in the context of the administrative reform, but generally they are very small and very often the results of the survey have not been taken into account. The questions of popular polls have also been relatively manipulated, with the exception of the four rural municipalities of Setomaa. There were numerous and effective participations in the public survey. To come to the example of Võnnu once more, Võnnus was a grassroots public survey with twice the size of the interview initiated by the merging councils. Do you not think that these public surveys carried out in the framework of administrative reform have been more of a game of democracy, such formal ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U30	Thank you. I will come to Võnnu for a moment, which was also mentioned by Krista Aru. The question is, what are we looking at? Are we based on the fact that local governments decide these issues as independently as possible and respect the decisions of local governments, or are we saying that the decisions of local councils on this matter do not matter? In a particular case, however, the issue is particularly complex, because, as the author of the inquiry has already said, many more people really participated in a survey where Võnnu was voted in favour. However, because of the competence of local authorities, I still think that final decisions can be taken by the council on such a matter. And the decision of the council was to choose the name of Kastre. As for the wider philosophical question of whether the local government leaders have tried to manipulate the people in the process of making referendums, I have met as you probably have with a large number of local government leaders, and I have a very strong feeling that the local government leaders, be they councillors, mayors or mayors, have set a framework for how to conduct the survey. No hard public propaganda to vote for one decision or another has been done. I would remind you that we had 213 municipalities before the administrative reform. However, if we look at how many problems there are still in the air, whether they concern the number of inhabitants or the names of the municipalities, I think there are still quite few of them. Consequently, the accession process has been very effective and very practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U31	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U32	Prime Minister! There are quite a number of place names in Estonia that come from foreign languages. For example, Rocca al Mare here in Tallinn comes from Italian. Castrum is a Latin word, which means castle-fortress, and there were dozens of Castrums in Estonia in the Middle Ages. In most cases, these names are part of two parts: the castle and then the place name. Now that a foreign name is chosen, there should be some very important reason for this. Shouldn't it still be the way the government went in 1922 when he decided that the village of Nuustaku should be renamed Otepää?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U33	Thank you. I don't know if I should go this way or go another way or a third. In any case, Mr Adams, I fully agree that linguistically complicated or non-Estonian names should be a very big exception. Speaking of Kastre, I repeat, Kastre is also the name of the old parish. At the beginning of the 20th century, the parish of Kastre and Võnnu was merged, and then the municipality of Kastre-Võnnu became the name until the rural municipality reform of 1938. Basically, but I totally agree with you. In this case, is it extreme or not? I don't think there's an extreme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U34	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns the mandate on which the decision was based. With what mandate could the three parish elders of the three parishes rule out its historical name? Who gave it to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U36	In my opinion, this decision is born on the level of councils. As far as the mandate is concerned, I think it is a mandate received by the municipal councils in the last municipal elections in 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U37	Prime Minister! No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Krista Aru! I would remind the Prime Minister that he still has the opportunity to speak, for example, to answer Mr Ammas' question, which was not answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U38	Mr President! Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Ladies and gentlemen, Gustav Suits has a poem called "The Motives of Võnu." It's a very long poem, I'm not gonna waste your time reading the whole poem, but there's a very beautiful idea. Man disappears, next people come. The houses even disappear, but what's left is Võnnu's name. When I read this poem, I was as sorry as the 537 inhabitants of Mäksa, Haaslava and Võnnu Parish, who understand that Võnnu Municipality bears our historical cultural heritage, and know the very important identity of this place name in the heart. I'm sorry too, because we don't know how to approach things in today's marketing. The municipality of Võnnu is much easier to introduce to tourists, even to talk about the first church in the Baltic countries, which Bishop Hermann had built there in 1236. You can talk about the local school because Võnnu High School is a valued and strong school. The name selection shall be based on the decision of the three councils. I don't blame them at all for choosing Kastre, but I'd very much like to ask them if they really know the etymology of Võnnu's name and whether they have an understanding of what kind of magic a place name is. We must not make such administrative reform decisions lightly and say that this or another name is not suitable today, even though it has been for centuries. Now let's pick it up and put a new name on one of the great merging parishes. This has already been done in Estonia once. On 1 April 1939 the Municipalities Act was enacted in Estonia and the boundaries of the rural municipalities were changed, the names were also changed. When you read the comments of Estonian intellectuals about what happened then, the first conclusion is that the sense of belonging of the local people and the knowledge of their own cultural heritage were greatly undermined. I am deeply sorry that these 537 people in favour of the name of Võnnu municipality had to listen here at times even to a very demagogic talk about why it is absolutely necessary to choose Kastre. In order to successfully implement the administrative reform, we need to take into account real democracy, the opinion of those people who keep the countryside every day on the ground. We're only listening to the councils right now, and we're following their decision. But have we ever thought, for once, that in councils people can rely more on day politics and regrettably little on what is required of every person living in Estonia. I mean knowledge, culture, and sense of what's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U39	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. We're done answering the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U40	The next item is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsse, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepse into the nonsense of administrative reform in the example of Vastseliina. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U41	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 24 January, on behalf of the eight representatives of the Free Party, we submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to understand unambiguously what the Head of Government thinks about the implementation of the administrative reform. Some times, it arouses doubts. And his point of view would like to know more in Vastseliina's example: what the present and future of Vastseliina will be. In the course of the administrative reform, the so-called voluntary merger has resulted in a number of geographically and historically illogical mergers, which cannot in fact be explained by the free will of the inhabitants of the merging municipalities or their elected councils. Throughout the process, the councils have had to take into account two important factors, which we have already pointed out repeatedly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, calling them a whip and a carrot. As we know, the whip has been a requirement of at least 5 000 inhabitants, which is very difficult to meet in sparsely populated rural areas. On the other hand, the carrot is money paid in the case of a qualifying merger, of which, unfortunately, new municipalities with fewer than 5 000 inhabitants will lose. But that money's pretty big. Often the accession preferences of councils and rural municipalities do not overlap, and as we have heard, the name choices do not overlap. Vastseliina has once been the heart of a parish with a much larger and prouder history than the current municipality. The parish of Vastseliina was located in the historic Võrumaa, which was probably settled in the Middle Ages. The parish of Vastseliina was composed of the parishes of Lasva, Loos, Orava and Vastseliina. Most of the parish areas remain in Võrumaa today, only the northern part now belongs to Põlvamaa, forming the rural municipality of Orava. Fortunately, the central part of the parish, where there is a church, is very much the same as the borders of the current Vastseliina parish, although, yes, pieces have moved to one side and the other. But even if all parts of the historical parish formed one rural municipality, the future Vastseliina rural municipality, it would still be difficult to meet the requirement of 5,000 inhabitants. In this sense, the various parts of the historical parish have joined other accession regions. Vastseliina Municipality decided voluntarily to join the rural municipality of Orava, which belongs to Põlvamaa, but only 2690 inhabitants would be there in total 396 square kilometres, making only 6.7 inhabitants per square kilometre. It is therefore an area of disunity which cannot be made subject to the same requirements as urban areas. The decision to join these two municipalities on a voluntary basis was approved by the Government of the Republic on 22 November. Unfortunately, on 9 February, the government decided that the new Vastseliina rural municipality, formed voluntarily, would be approved with Võru rural municipality, which already includes Võru rural municipality, Sõmerpalu rural municipality and Lasva rural municipality. The Urvaste parish and Antsla parish are added to it. So it seems that the government has taken the sole decision-maker's right from up here and from a distance to say what is right. It seems that this train has already left, but nevertheless, we want to know what must now be done by the people of Vastseliina and Squirrel, who are simply being run over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U42	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U43	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, thank you very much for your questioning, which bears number 297. However, the general view is that the services provided to local residents must become more accessible and their quality increased. And partnerships between municipalities and the state must improve. I think that is a general position. If you will allow me, I will begin to answer the question and do as I did last time that I will first read the question and then the answer to make it clearer. The first question: "What advice do you give to the leaders of Vastseliina and the municipality of Orava? " First of all, I want to make a clarification. The text of the inquiry refers to the municipality of Võhandu, but on 31 January, the decision of the government confirmed the name of the municipality Võru on the merger of the municipalities of Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru. In the meantime, there has been such a change. The parish council of Squirrel and Vastseliina has announced that they wish to join the parishes of Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru. They also proposed to these municipalities that accession negotiations be opened last year. Since the municipalities of Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru decided not to expand the round of accession negotiations at the stage initiated by the councils, the municipalities of Orava and Vastseliina joined together. During the negotiations, the municipalities of Orava and Vastseliina have taken into account the possibility that the Government of the Republic will initiate the merger of the merged municipality with the municipalities of Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru. They think it's the preferred way of connecting. Taking into account the objectives of the administrative reform, the high-quality public services, the use of regional development assumptions, increasing competitiveness and more balanced regional development, Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru municipalities are also the most logical way of accession, and this was proposed by the government to the councils. When Orava and Vastseliina rural municipalities join Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru rural municipalities, they also become more coherent with the natural centre, which is the city of Võru. The latter is a clear attraction centre for these municipalities. The solution will create better opportunities for comprehensive long-term planning. Greater territorial coherence with the Centre will help reduce regional disparities. The city of Võru is the main destination for the consumption of services for the whole of Vastseliina rural municipality and for most of the municipality of Orava. A large part of the jobs in this area are also connected to the city of Võru and Võru is also the best public transport connections. Thus, such a solution is best for the living conditions of the population. The second question: 'What role does the opinion of the local population play here for you, who has so far supported the joining of Vastseliina and Squirrel in the vast majority? ' On 21 December last year, the Municipality of Orava and Vastseliina approved the Accession Treaty and requested changes to the administrative-territorial arrangements. On 18 and 20 November, a local survey was conducted. To the question 'Do you support the merger of the municipality of Orava and the municipality of Vastseliina into one municipality? ' 80.3% of respondents answered yes. In total, 32.5% of the electoral age population participated in the survey. The government confirmed the merger of the municipality of Orava and Vastseliina on 26 January this year. For the two municipalities that are joining on their own initiative but still do not meet the minimum criteria for the number of inhabitants laid down in the Administrative Reform Act after accession, the government proposes to join Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru rural municipalities in this case. On 15 January, the Government of the Republic proposed the merger of Antsla rural municipality, Urvaste rural municipality, Vastseliina rural municipality and Orava rural municipality with Sõmerpalu rural municipality, Lasva rural municipality and Võru rural municipality. The recommendation of the Local Regional Commission was also such. According to the minutes of the Regional Commission, the Mayor Andres Kõiv stated at the meeting that the residents of the rural municipalities had expressed their wish to join Võru County, and at the meeting on 9 January the Regional Commission proposed to the Government of the Republic to join the municipalities of Vastseliina and Orava in the municipalities of Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru. Ilmar Ploom, Chairman of the Orava Vallavolikogu, has said in the press that the people of Orava and the council have preferred to join Võru since the beginning of the administrative reform and that Võru City is a bigger attraction centre for the residents of the municipality than Räpina or Põlva, for example. Question 3: 'Do you agree that the main cause of the confusion is the dogmatism of the claim of five thousand inhabitants and the ignoring of other circumstances, particularly the parish identity? ' The change in the administrative-territorial organisation has been based on the objective of administrative reform to support the greater capacity of the local government unit to provide high-quality public services. This is exactly the same principle I mentioned, a good questioner, when answering a question from the very beginning before we went to the questions. The aim is to improve the quality of public services, to make better use of the development conditions of the regions, to increase competitiveness and to achieve a more coherent regional development. The 5000 population criterion was not taken from the ceiling, proposed by the Expert Committee set up to prepare the administrative reform and based on the analysis carried out by Geomedia in 2015. And the requirement of 5,000 residents is not dogmatic. The government has the right under the Administrative Reform Act to make significant exceptions to its decision at the request of the municipalities, but they must be well-founded. These exceptions are enshrined in the law. The Government of the Republic may derogate from this criterion, i.e. not initiate a change in the administrative-territorial organisation of the local government if it is an area, sea or cultural distinction. In the accessions initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act allows for the submission of a reasoned position by local governments on the disagreement with the accession. If, in the view of the Government of the Republic, the objections raised are well founded, the proceedings against local authorities will be terminated, i.e. there will be no compulsory merger. I can assure you that these decisions will certainly be taken by the government after a very thorough debate, which will take into account all the substantive arguments. With regard to the municipalities currently under discussion, I do not agree that there would be a great deal of confusion in their merger, because the merger of the rural municipalities of Orava and Vastseliina has been confirmed as requested by the councils. In order to meet the criterion, it is proposed to join the merged municipalities Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru rural municipalities, which have also been identified as the preferred merger direction by the municipalities of Orava and Vastseliina. The parishes of Orava and Vastseliina have historically belonged to the parish of Vastseliina with Lasva and Misso parishes. By joining Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru rural municipalities, there are three of the four municipalities of the former parish in one future municipality. It is also historically part of the territory of Võrumaa. Question 4: 'If you agree, why didn't you take steps to rethink the fossilised positions you had so far when you became Prime Minister? " To some extent, I answered that question in the preceding point. If the minimum criteria are not met, I believe that the government will have ample opportunity to grant exemptions. But more generally, the Administrative Reform Act, which was approved by the Riigikogu majority on 7 June 2016, also has its own good and faults. But I would like to say for my part, as I have already said at the end of the previous question, that, of course, I congratulate the previous government, and certainly the previous minister of public administration, for preparing the law on administrative reform and finally putting reform into practice. I sincerely acknowledge that on this basis it has been good for the government in office to move forward and launch, after the first phase of the administrative reform, i.e. administrative-territorial reform, a phase of changing the financing model for local authorities and redeployment of tasks. It is these steps that are very important for the whole administrative reform. By financing model, I also mean restoring the municipal income base after the percentage of personal income tax passed on to municipalities in 2009. That concludes my questioning and I will certainly answer your questions as well. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U44	The first question about the future, possibly Vastse municipality, will be asked by Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U45	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! You spoke quite convincingly about what links Vastselina, Lasva and Orava, but please let's continue this geography lesson and explain what links Vastselina and Antsla.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U46	If you answer very briefly, one must join the Võru rural municipality on the west side and the other must join the Võru rural municipality on the east side. In the middle, they meet. If such a self-government occurs, there will be about 13,000 inhabitants or a little bit more. I guess this merger is a council decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U47	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! If you look at the map of Võru County and what's going to happen, we'll see that there are two huge estates. Below the city of Võru lies the municipality of Rõuge and up the city of Võru is the municipality of Võru, but in the middle lies the city of Võru. There will therefore be three municipalities. In answering the first question, you said that it is reasonable and natural and understandable that the people of Vastseliina and Squirrel move like Võru and start receiving services in the city of Võru. That's what made me ask. Namely, those municipalities that join and form Võru rural municipality go to Võru rural municipality, not Võru city. This leaves the feeling that we have only one large unit and a so-called centre, which is the city of Võru, and the rest are no longer so important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U49	I'm sure the rest are very important. I'm afraid I misunderstood you right now, you didn't mean to say that the residents of some of these rural municipalities are not important. Of course, everything matters. Yes, in some ways it is right that if there is a Võru rural municipality and, on the other hand, the rural municipality of Rõuge, this is how to say, ringvalla, which is around the town of Võru. Our recent history has quite clearly shown what will happen after some time from the cities within such a ringland. At the same time, for the city of Võru, the number of residents there is now more than 12,300 people. It is therefore a city of considerable size on the scale of Estonia. But in the course of this administrative reform, we are actually losing the city as a municipality in quite a few counties. This has already happened in Rapla, where Rapla is located, and also in Hiiumaa, where Kärdla has become a city in Hiiu rural municipality. I would not oppose the future Võru municipality, its inhabitants and the city of Võru. Everyone from that area knows that in the eyes of the people of Rõuge, the city of Võru is a centre of attraction. There are jobs, it's a place for many people to study and people go from country to city. I don't see a problem with that. And that does not mean that the city of Võru cannot continue to exist as a city. Today's idea is that Võru City will remain and Võru Municipality and Rõuge Municipality will most likely come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U50	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As far as I know, the residents of Antsla and Urvaste Parish would be happy to continue together. They have made a decision to be common to the municipality of Antsla. But that's it. If the government really joins Orava and Vastseliina, as well as Antsla and Urvaste with the vast Võru parish that will surround the city of Võru, I have a little concern about the city of Võru. In this case, this municipality will be considerably larger than the city of Võru, and the city of Võru will have to serve this large municipality, provide services to them and provide infrastructure. My question is this: are you planning to start financing such county centres under a different system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U52	If you don't mind, I did a very quick calculation, and if this isn't the case, the new Võru municipality would start to have a little over 15,500 people in 15600 and a few dozen people. Compared to the city of Võru, it is, yes, a little bigger, as I said, there are just over 12,000 people in the city of Võru. I don't see it going out of balance. Now, the question of whether a specific coefficient or specific funding could be foreseen for the regional centres in the financing model. I don't think that's out of the question. As I said in reply to the previous inquiry, the Minister of Public Administration is currently working on a financing model for municipalities. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is important to me that the central government is taking a step in the direction of local governments to restore the percentage of personal income tax to local governments. How much we can do that, the analysis will show. But yes, it cannot be ruled out that a specific coefficient is set for the funding of the county centres. This version of work is available on the desk of the Minister of Public Administration, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U53	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! For my part, as a brief comment, I say that it would be perfectly normal for Antsla and Urvaste to remain a separate unit, even though there is just under 5,000 inhabitants. In my opinion, there could be some distinction. But here's the question. We're always talking about Vastselina and Squirrel, but has anyone asked the three of them, i.e. Lasva, Sõmerpalu and Võru parishes how they feel about Vastseliina and Orava joining them? As far as I know, they've already made advance agreements with each other, even set the order of investments, etc. They, as far as I know, are categorically opposed to this right now, at least the leaders of the parishes. I've been talking to somebody in the parish about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U55	Thank you for this question. In fact, you have largely responded to this on your own question. What are you doing, but Antslas is really short of over 300 people at 5,000, and in Vastselina, over 2,000 people are short of 5,000. You also said that discretion could be exercised in the case of Antsla. What does the law provide now? According to the law, 15 February was the anniversary when the Government of the Republic had to submit its proposals for accession. Of course, the views of local working groups or committees on the direction in which accession could take place have been very much taken into account. It is now three months for municipal councils to give an answer as to whether they consider what they have proposed to be right, and if they do not consider it right, they must explain why. And then the government has one month to analyse these reasons. If we add up these three plus one months, it's almost Midsummer Day on June 15th. I also said, in reply to the previous inquiry, that the government has such a discretion. This is the stage at which the municipalities must be given time to reflect calmly on the proposals made by the government. There must be time to consult the local community and, of course, discuss everything at council level. After that, the ball is in the government's hands again; we must have our debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U56	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In response to the previous inquiry, you argued that you were clearly following the decision of the local councils. Twigs are no longer good, let's throw them away, Kastre's coming. That's right. Now that the local councils have clearly said that they would like to continue a little more on their own, that they can manage, are sustainable, they say: no, it is not up to you. So what's the base? Is it a council decision? If there is a council decision, why is it not being followed on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U58	Thank you, good questioner! I know this tone doesn't really fit when there's a discussion with honourable members of the Riigikogu, but... Dear Krista Aru, I have never said, even in reply to the previous question, that Võnnu's name is no longer fit and we will throw it away. On the contrary, I said that I thought Võnnu was a very honorable name. I didn't contradict Võnnu and Kastret at all. I explained why Kastre was elected. I also respect the 500 people you told me about. At least keep it here in the verbogram. Now, your question was built on the fact that when I answered the previous question, I said that it was important what local government councils decide, and now it is as if it does not matter. I replied to Mr Bridge in the same way as I am now answering you that this is the stage that the law provides for. Take the example of Pärnumaa, the municipality of Häädemeeste, where, as far as I know, there were 4982 inhabitants, i.e. 18 people less than 5,000. The law adopted by the Riigikogu provides that the government must then propose accession. And that's what the government has proposed in Võru County. Now the municipalities have three months to hold discussions and make their own proposals. From 15 May to 15 June, the government will once again have the opportunity to make a proposal to the local authorities' positions. We only rely on what the law requires. The government must propose membership to all persons with fewer than 5000 inhabitants, except maritime authorities. And without a joke, I am very happy to be able to say with certainty: Vormsi, Muhu, Kihnu and also Ruhnu, where sometimes you cannot go, when there is fog, continue as independent municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U59	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! As you can see, there's a lot of questions and confusion. There are a number of questions that come from me, too. Why, for example, has it not been taken as a basis for Võrumaa to be a single municipality when you say that the city of Võru is an obvious attraction centre? On the other hand, when Antsla is merged with Võru rural municipality, one should consider that Antsla has been a historical centre. In my childhood, when there was no other merchandise, Antslas still had it. But now they're going this way, that Antsla will die as the center dies. What do you want to tell them? And the third question is why Misso has been cut out of the historical parish of Vastseliina. Can you answer those questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U61	Thank you. Thank you. I'll try to answer with your help. First question. You can ask one question, and you have asked one beautifully. Question 1a: why isn't Võru one municipality? As far as I know, the strong desire of the Setomaa people is behind this. Secondly, what we are denying here is still a very special cultural space. I think it's a signicant thing. I didn't in any way lean on my opinion as to whether the Setomaa municipality could come or not, but in my soul, I think that Seto Municipality is the right idea. And that's what the polls showed. For this reason alone, Võrumaa cannot look at the whole. Now your question 1b: has Antsla's center been condemned to fading? It's not, it's definitely not! I repeat, the proposal had to be made in compliance with the law, so that the Riigikogu would not object to the government. The law provides that if there are fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, the government must propose accession. But the joke is, whether the population is just under 5,000 or a little over 5,000, the direction is the opposite of what you're saying. Municipalities must not fade away, but must gain more responsibilities at decision-making level, of course with additional money. Well, I guess that's your question, and that's how I answered it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U62	His right to submit an inquiry in the round of one oral question is used by Helmut Hallemaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U63	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! The issue of centres has been discussed here. When Estonia is taken up, one of the major centres is Tallinn. We have had a minister and a mayor who has said that there will soon be one government in the country. In fact, if we take South Estonia, then the clear centre is the capital of Tartu, the entire capital of South Estonia. It makes sense that Võru is the centre of Võru in Võrumaa. I am glad that when we went to Võru County on the weekend, the people of Haanja, Rõuge and Mist were completely satisfied that the new municipality would come under the name of Rõuge and that the centre would be Rõuge. In fact, I am asking what is the responsibility of both us and the government if we want to preserve both the county centres and the smaller centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U64	However, I know one former mayor of Tallinn and even one current member of the government who has said that not all residents need to move to Tallinn and that there are two centres in Estonia, only Tallinn and Tartu, but there are plenty more centres in Estonia and life must be possible outside Tallinn and Tartu. I really think so. If I understood Liina Kersna correctly, her idea was that the county centres might be Viljandi, Pärnu, Võru, Valga and Põlva. Mr. Hallemaa, I think your idea is that these centers should be looked at a little more widely. Figuratively speaking, when we are talking about Pärnumaa, is there, in a sense, the centre next to Pärnu city also Kilingi-Nõmme, the city inside Saarde rural municipality, and, in a sense, the Häädemeeste. I will start by saying that there has been much talk in the press recently about the government's plan so that certain public authorities can move out of Tallinn. Yeah, that's the plan. It is being prepared now, and it is not as extensive as one newspaper pointed out. All this information was a very original version of the work that was on the table several weeks ago. The idea has been that if these institutions move to regional centres, it will greatly contribute to the possibility of life in smaller centres. It is also to a large extent an educational policy decision. Are we saying that the entire use of education support could go entirely to the local government's discretion? Are we saying that the decision whether public transport within the county is free of charge or not is made by the local authority? The more functions we give to the local level, the stronger the smaller and larger the centres are. Everything also depends very much on the financing model and the development of the financing model has taken the direction to increase the income base of local governments. So that's what we're gonna do. I will, for example, take the decision taken last week in the government, which relates to the necessary training such as swimming instruction. Estonia is known to be a maritime state and we also have many rivers and lakes. Currently, the state supports swimming training in secondary and third grades of schools with around EUR 230000. Now we have decided to give another million more for swimming instruction, and this money will not go through ministries, but directly to the local government revenue base.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U65	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Listening to this debate, there are a number of questions: centres, administrative capacity, as well as education. Historical and other aspects are also at stake. That is the question: will the reform remain open? Is there a continuation of the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U67	Thank you. I would like to begin by congratulating you very much, Mr Lutsepp. In my opinion, you are not only listening to this debate, but you are also playing a very effective part in it. This, in my opinion, is participatory democracy, which is far more important than representative democracy. So, if you don't mind, I'll say in the name of the government, "Praise! Congratulations! ' Now, whether administrative reform can be expected to continue. I still follow the principle of separation of powers and the continuation of administrative reform depends on the direction the Riigikogu takes, the direction it takes in the Riigikogu or the subsequent formations. I myself think there will be mergers. Personally, I think there will be mergers in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U68	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U69	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I listened to this debate here, and I thought I'd intervene with one question. You mentioned free public transport when talking about strengthening local governments. I, as a member of the Coalition Party, have read the coalition agreement in one way or another, but I don't see the word 'free' there. There is talk of additional amounts for public transport. What is our transport policy anyway? Do you really believe that free public transport could be the magic wand that makes life flourish in Estonia's yard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U70	Thank you for such a very illustrative question. First of all, I have used the same use of words in meetings held under both four and six or eight eyes, as well as in completely public debates, as is the case here in the Riigikogu today. My position has been and will be next today. This 21 additional million will be allocated either to local authorities or to public transport centres set up by local authorities. As a result, they have the opportunity to organise free public transport within the county, but this is definitely not a government decision. The government also does not propose to the Riigikogu that you make a decision on this matter. It's just their chance. Perhaps in some counties, municipalities say that yes, this 21 million is, of course, needed to start buses more often. Maybe now the bus tickets are too expensive. However, you are absolutely right: there is no agreement in the coalition agreement. However, if a public transport centre considers that public transport is the most efficient, it is possible for them to organise it. Is that a magic wand? No, it's not. I don't think there's a single magic wand. But this 21 additional million, which has been found thanks to the Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party, will hopefully make the movement of people within the county more frequent, operational and comfortable. However, it is up to the public transport centres to organise all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U71	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the Prime Minister in this inquiry. Thank you, George Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U72	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some time ago, former Minister Arto Aas expressed the opinion that the draft which was born as a result of his actions, which was branded as a law, was a good one. The case we are discussing now shows how bad this law is. We are now dealing with what should have been done at least a year before the adoption of such a law as a preparatory work for the adoption of this law. We are now faced with the question of whether and if so to what extent it will be possible to reverse wrong decisions afterwards. The example of the Võrumaa is very vivid in the sense that it combines different decisions made at different times. Historically, all this has ever been the land of the bishopric of Tartu. This is the land called Ugandi. As far as we know, there has never been a very solid internal regional distribution, as is the case in most parts of Estonia. The fact that this once diocese of Tartu became the county of Tartu is a very long story, but we are now only interested in the so-called historical question of Võrumaa. The question of historical Võrumaa began to get confused because, when the Republic of Estonia was created, it was administratively rational that Valga county was formed separately from the southern part of Tartumaa, to which the south-eastern part of Viljandi County was added. If Valga was not in the county now, it would be much easier to change the administrative arrangements. The same thing happened to the northern part of Võrumaa, where the construction of the Tartu-Petseri railway resulted in the development of a meaningless parish centre called Põlva into a city at an extremely rapid rate. In the same way, several other previously insignificant places that became a railway station developed into a city. An example is the city of Antsla and the city of Võru as an economic centre. If we are looking at this artificial county created during the Soviet era, I have to say about Põlva County that, as a whole, in terms of economic success and organisational abilities, this region has stood out much more than many other historical patterns. But that's got nothing to do with this right now. This is because the northern part of Põlva County was part of Tartumaa before World War II and the southern part of Võrumaa. Administrative reformers seek to take account of this relative artificial boundary. After all, the border of Põlva County officially runs from Põlva County to Põlva County, perhaps I am wrong about five or ten kilometres away from Võru. It's more like five kilometers. And in that case, the southern parts of the county should be in the whole package of mergers or mergers that we are talking about today. I'll ask for more time if that's possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U73	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U74	The main question was the question of the fate of Vastseliina and Squirrel. However, the squirrel is part of Põlva County and it is historically well founded. It's perfectly clear. The parish of Vastseliina located on the eastern border of Estonia was from the surface of the area, I am not quite sure, perhaps some of the parishes of Alutaguse were larger than one of the largest parishes. At all, this once diocese area of Tartu has had extremely large parishes, just like West or Saaremaa. There must be an explanation. There was a different ecclesiastical system: there was no central parish church and there were many small local churches, which were usually called chapels in South Estonia and where the clergyman took turns, as in the village ceremony and giving communion. At the same time there is relatively compact and reasonably formed from the city of Võru in Eastern Võrumaa to the border with Setumaa, as well as the main centre of southern Võrumaa in Rõuge. There is also West Võrumaa, whose centre is Antslas. So we have to ask whether there is a Northern Võrumaa. And it is: namely, all the area between Põlva and Võru should belong there. These matters should have been discussed long ago in the process of preparing the administrative reform. The three-way division inherited from the Soviet era, the Võru division, the Valga division and the Põlva division, are probably one that cannot survive any reasonable change of administration in the historic Võrumaa. Any mergers and renormalizations that need to be carried out there must probably be done in such a way that this Soviet division is simply struck out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U75	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U76	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is certainly wider than Võrumaa. Mr Adams has already dealt with this, and I took the floor precisely because, historically, we cannot base ourselves on one stage, second stage or third stage. You can't base a parish division either, because life has just moved on a lot. Now, if you make the birth document of the Estonian state, the Manifest for all the peoples of Estonia, we can see that eight counties have been mentioned there. The Võrumaa is among them, but the borders have been left open. I don't think it's that important now either. At least right now, it is probably reasonable that we maintain larger centres for the provision of state services in those places where people are used to walking. The county is certainly one of the levels in the administrative division of the Estonian state, which requires reflection. Clearly, rural governments are no longer fulfilling the role they once played, even after regaining independence. I have had the honour of working as head of the Development Department of the Viljandi Rural Government. At that time, the rural government really was a coordinator, a sedator and a developer, and it also had the resources to do so. Now the county level has left representatives of the large cross-Estonian units, so the rural governments definitely need a new role. The municipalities' associations have not yet acquired this capacity, which has certainly been hampered by their current status as non-profit organisations. Under new circumstances, the county level sometimes needs to be thought out, understood. And as the Prime Minister has rightly said, I believe that the issue of borders will certainly remain on the table. But I think I do, and we all think that the limits are better than the limits. Sometimes in every way. The administrative reform will certainly continue. Today we are actually talking about the end of the first phase, or the administrative territorial reform, which should be done by summer. I think, like the Prime Minister, that the most important thing is to complete this undertaking with substance and really create opportunities for municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U77	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate. Is there anything the Prime Minister would like to add? No, I don't. This question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U78	We will go to the next question by Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukamm, Ain Lutsepp and Artur Talvik. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U79	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! It is actually natural that the Free Party is asking so many questions on the subject of administrative reform, because we were one of the most active groups in the process of revising the administrative reform law, who tabled 51 amendments to this bundle of packages. We have taken it to heart because the Free Party has been convinced from the beginning that changes are needed. But, of course, the previous speaker here also ended up with the fact that for some reason we have started from behind. The first objective of the reform could have been the distribution of content, i.e. responsibilities between municipalities, state and communities, or third sector, and the resulting revenue base. It was only after that that we should have started to see how the boundaries of the administrative units should connect to each other, so that these first aspects, which I was talking about, would more or less logically collide. That is why we brought Võrumaa as an example in the previous question, and I am now introducing the analogous question about Järvamaa. Järva parishes are geographically bizarre'solic' resulting from the merger of Albu, Ambla, Imavere, Kareda, Koigi and Järva-Jaani in Järva County, some also call it a bow tie. Since Dog has given up joining it and it is possible that he will join Lääne-Virumaa, this strange figure deepened even more. It is also very strange that the Väätsa sided with Paide is connected to Türi parish. Järva County Manager has said that if the administrative reform could start again, they would certainly not do so in this form again. I would also like to make a few observations on the example of Koeru municipality. The dog took a bold decision to propose the merger to the municipality of Rakke in Lääne-Virumaa. The problem is this (the same problem as in Võru's example above) that the only attraction there is the town of Paide. Therefore, one option that is considered logical is that there could be one great Järvamaa. The current options seem a little incomprehensible. The number of jobs in the dog is very high when you look at Järvamaa, there are more and more students coming to the first class of upper secondary school, and therefore it is unclear why on 9 February the government proposed that Koeru join Järva municipality. Where's the center, anyway, which are the arguments? I would really expect the government to have a bigger and bolder vision. The decisions of local councils may not always take account of local people and circumstances, since there is this double cookie: not only does the municipality receive remuneration for voluntary accession, but the local government leaders who have made these decisions also receive compensation. But they can largely rely on them not to remain empty - handed either way. The representatives of many villages have pointed out that these are sauna club agreements. I would like to remind you that we are doing administrative reform, still thinking about people and their motivation to continue living in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U80	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U81	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, let me thank you for your questioning, which bears number 299. I am completely in agreement with the representative of the heirs, and a big and bold vision is needed. I was starting to wonder what it might be. I think it's an Estonian map and people living here in Maryland. There can be no better, bigger and more powerful picture, in that sense, your theme raise is very correct. If you don't mind, I'll bring it to Järva municipality (it'll relate a little to previous enquiries, just in the sense of whether or not these polls are manipulated) just some figures that reflect, I don't know, a positive or sad picture. But that's what they are. We are talking about the accession treaty, Järva municipality and the public poll. I'll bring out some numbers. There were 727 people on the list in Imavere, but only 61 participated in the survey. Only 61. 'Yes' answered 32 and 'no' answered 29 people, there were no invalid notes. This means that only 8.39% of people participated. Järva-Jaani had a list of 1292 people, attended only 105. 'Yes' said 72 and 'no' 33. The percentage of participation was 8,12. 510 people voted in Ambla, which was 29.2% of all voters, together 1744. So there was a much higher percentage. 204 people said yes and 306 said no. Albus had 984 people on the list, but there were 28 notes in the box, or 2.8% of the people took part, 11 of whom answered yes and 17 in the negative. For example, 54 out of 812 people took a vote in Koig, with a percentage of 6.7. They're actually pretty sad numbers. But for this, it was just information. Now, honourable heirs, I come to your question. If you don't mind, I'll read the question first and then the answer. The first question: "What advice do you give to Järva County Elder and the merging municipality of Järva? ' First, until 1 January 2017, mergers took place on the initiative of local governments and their selected partners. Koeru Parish concluded negotiations for the establishment of Järva rural municipality on 16 December 2016, which is at the end of the negotiations, when the councils of the other acceding municipalities were already ready to confirm the accession agreement and application. I agree that the Järva municipality to be formed is not territorially holistic without Koeru municipality. A good representative of the heirs described this new domain in a geographical way. The expert working group and committee also describe it in the same way: 'After the municipality of Koeru has been abandoned, the connecting municipality is the municipality (Eht then Järva municipality). (J.R.) Unnatural shape, tall and narrow, wormlike. ' That's what the panel says. But let's move on. As the municipality of Koeru does not meet the minimum criterion as of 1 January 2017 and is not joining anyone in order to become a municipality meeting the criterion, the government proposed that the municipality of Koeru join the Järva rural municipality to be formed. This has also been supported by expert studies. For example, in Järvamaa, the University of Tartu survey treats Aravete, Järva-Jaani and Koeru as a logical service area, which, in cooperation, can ensure regional service capabilities. The direction of student migration also shows that Dog is migrating towards Järvamaa. In addition, the current public transport organisation favours the accession of Koeru to the municipalities in the Järvamaa direction. Joining the municipality of dogs and Rakke would not help to meet the minimum population criterion. When the municipality of Dog and Rakke joins, it is now a theoretically said unit with 3783 inhabitants. The experts who analysed the administrative reform have found that if Rakke, Koeru and Väike-Maarja were to be merged, Väike-Maarja would not act as a centre for the Koeru region. The second question: 'How do you explain to the Väätsa people their imminent accession to Türi? In this case, did the opinion of the local population be taken into account? ' Väätsa Municipality is joining Türi Municipality because this was the decision of local governments. As of 1 January 2017, mergers took place on the initiative of local governments and their selected partners. Yes, Väätsa municipality negotiated the merger with Paide city, Paide rural municipality, Kareda rural municipality and Roosna-Alliku rural municipality, but decided to terminate them and continued the accession negotiations with Türi rural municipality. The Väätsa Vallavolikogu agreed with Türi Vallavolikogu's proposal to open negotiations on the basis of the decision of 25 February 2016. Väätsa, as well as a large part of Türi rural municipality, are indigenous agricultural areas and therefore their concerns and joys are similar. It is true that the residents of Väätsa rural municipality have a location between two centres of attraction, I mean the city of Türi and Paide, because of the consumption of services and labour migration provided by these municipalities. 18.2% of residents with voting rights participated in the survey, 59% of whom were in favour of joining Türi and Käru rural municipality. In areas bordering Väätsa rural municipality, Paide city and Paide rural municipality, priority would be given, i.e. the merger with Paide rural municipality to be formed, and the inhabitants of certain areas are therefore dissatisfied. At the same time, it can be pointed out that the current territory of both Türi and Väätsa rural municipality is located on the lands of the former Türi parish. It cannot therefore be said that the accession had been overlooked in the historic parish. The county governor supported the merger of these rural municipalities and the change in the county of Käru rural municipality, pointing out that although Rapla County loses a piece of its territory due to the merger between Käru and Türi rural municipality, these areas are historically closely linked. These municipalities also have a close social and economic connection, daily intensive labour migration and the services of both municipalities are used. Question 3: 'If the municipality of Koeru does not join the merging Järva rural municipality itself, but for example there is a forced merger and Koeru loses the merger grant, what exactly is the Government of the Republic punishing Koeru? " Indeed, for the establishment of Türi rural municipality, the amount of the accession grant granted from the state budget is 1.9 million euros. The merger grant is provided for by the Administrative Reform Act for the municipalities in which the councils concluded the merger procedure. The government does not punish the unjoined parish by depriving it of the accession grant. Merger support has been a motivating objective. This is a bonus for those local governments whose councils reached agreement on their own initiative and completed the procedure. Merger support enables them to make additional investments after accession. Question 4: "What role has the so-called "gerrymandering" played in shaping new parish boundaries, i.e. the desire to become the most favourable position on the list of parties organising reform in the municipalities to be formed? ' The change in the administrative-territorial organisation has been based on the objective of administrative reform to support the local government unit's capacity to provide high-quality public services, to use regional development assumptions, to increase competitiveness and to ensure more consistent regional development. As a result of the administrative reform, local government units must be able to organise and manage local life independently and to carry out statutory tasks. Strengthening the position of political parties due to artificial changes in the borders of electoral regions has not played a role in the merger of local governments, nor is it known that such desires have played a decisive role in shaping local decision-making. Question 5: "What are the options for correcting errors? ' I don't see any problems in Järvamaa that need to be solved. In Järva county, the government proposed to the only municipality not fulfilling the criterion to join Järva-Jaani, Albu, Ambla, Imavere, Kareda and Koigi rural municipality, or the Järva rural municipality to be formed. Koeru vald is a historical Järvamaa municipality and is located within the boundaries of Koeru parish. After the 1938 rural municipality reform, the municipality of Väinjärve was located in the region, the centre of which was Koerus. This area has never been part of other counties. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U82	Questions for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U83	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! This is how I ask you at the beginning of your answer. What is the most appropriate solution in terms of administrative reform, a survey or an initiative? Quite a number of people have asked that if the poll is not binding on the council, why take part in such a case if there is no point of coherence. The initiative would have a much greater coherence because it has been done by the local community itself; people have worked themselves to collect signatures for the idea and idea on which the council should form a position within at least three months. Now Järvamaa has become a mess. What is the clear message of the Prime Minister, which is the most important or primary, questioning or initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U84	Thank you. You are right, the poll is not binding on the council, but, as you can see, we use it quite often if we have to justify something. We use the results of the poll as a fact. I, too, began to answer this question by pointing out the percentage participation in the polls, which, to say the least, were very, very small. I understand that the initiative you are talking about stems from the Local Government Organisation Act. As far as I am aware, it says (i shall say in my head) that the right to take an initiative is at least 1% of the elected population, but not less than five. I think this initiative is also a good example for the country. The local government council must take these initiatives to the process, either as suggestions for improvement or as entirely new proposals. I consider it very positive that the law on the organisation of local government grants local residents this right. You asked which one was more important, either the initiative or the interview. It's extremely difficult to contrast them. I think that if the local community takes an initiative in terms of the organisation of local government in the sense of law and this is at least 1% of the elected population, it is a very strong and strong message for the local government council to make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U85	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You did mention very small percentages when you spoke about participating in the polls. How do you personally think what's behind this little participation, whether people's apathy or involuntaryness, or if there's any other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U87	I very much hope that this is not apathy or involuntary. After all, the polls were about people in the neighborhood. The question can always be asked whether there could have been better dissemination of information or whether these interviews could have been more operational and convenient. Those questions are always up. But it is difficult to accept what you have said on your question, because it is because of the indifference of people, because I think that the people of Estonia are very interested in the future of their region. Maybe I'll bring in a little bit of an unexpected parallel here. I recall the articles in the nationwide media about the desire to change the name of a street. The people on this street stood up for the name of their home street. I think that the people of Estonia really care about their place of residence. But why is the percentage of participation low? I don't think there's one particular answer here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U88	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The people of Ambla and Käravet started a survey. They would like to join the municipality of Tapa because the municipality of Tapa has historically belonged to the parish of Ambla. This survey revealed that 43% of the inhabitants of Ambla rural municipality and 52% of the inhabitants of Käravete want to join Tapa rural municipality. So the people in this area have given a very clear message about what they want and cannot say, as mentioned above, that people are indifferent and are not part of the polls. The result was very powerful, I would say, very clear. How does the Government of the Republic take into account the desire of such a remarkable number of members of the community who wish to join the municipality of Tapa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U90	Thank you. The answer is not the same as it has always been: the government is guided by the decisions of the councils when making these decisions. Once the council has made a decision, it is the only thing that can be done in the voluntary accession phase in the eyes of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U91	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You've already been asked a couple of times to attend the polls on a low percentage, but I'll ask you again. Do you think one of the main reasons is that the law has already been written in, that people's opinion doesn't really count? The council will make the decision anyway, and the government will make the decision. At least I've heard dozens and dozens of times people say what they're supposed to do if their opinion isn't taken into account anyway. Isn't that why people don't come to the polls? You said now that if the name of a street was to be changed, the whole street would come and bravely argue or approve, but there would be so lukewarm and indifferent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U93	Thank you for this question. You said that what I would come to give my opinion if anyway, I don't know, council, municipal government, Riigikogu or government makes a decision and my opinion doesn't matter. Let's look at one area, the area of detail planning. They're very active there, aren't they? It is NGOs, third sector organisations, non-profit organisations that come up with their own opinion and mostly do so. That is why, I think, very many planning processes have had to change views, traffic solutions, etc. So these reasons, after all, vary from one thing to another and give one firm answer, that yes, that is the reason, is very difficult if not impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U94	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U95	Thank you. Prime Minister! The last coalition of government has cooked up the middle of the administrative reform, but the happiness and joy of implementing it remains with the government you manage. My question repeats the fifth question of the question of what correction options you will see. You said you couldn't see them. I ask you, then, if you don't see them because they don't exist, or because there are no mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U96	Thank you. The fifth question of the inquiry concerned the merger of Järva and Koeru. I don't know if the question was meant to be wider. If the question was meant to be broader, I can say that I have referred to these errors today in replying to both the first and the second questions. Local authorities have always expected that if we do administrative reform, we will also come up with a financing model. On the one hand, reference has always been made to the 2009 cut. On the other hand, I think that there has been a place that can be improved, and I do not want to say that this has been a mistake, but rather that it is a place that can be improved, that is, what are the tasks of the local government and what are the tasks of the state and what are the financing. I think this is the place to be fixed. I think this coalition has done it, he's fixed it. As I replied to the previous question, the next stage at government level will begin on 15 May, when, after the accession proposals made by the government as of 15 February, it will have to decide how to proceed, after listening to the local authorities. I think the law is flexible enough, precisely in terms of discretion. But, yeah, what could or could have done better? In some ways, it's a hindsight that doesn't have much to do with it, but it can always be improved. I am thinking of the financing model and the division of tasks and responsibilities with funding. I think they've been about the orphan from the start.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U97	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U98	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! My question is a little more general and perhaps driven by the whole afternoon when we have taken up the debate on administrative reform here. When did you mature into the notion that this 5,000-person limit offered by Geomedia is the best and most appropriate criterion? Did you reach this understanding as a member of the Riigikogu or now that you had to take the role of Head of Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U99	Thank you for that question. I never said that 5000 was an ideal criterion. I didn't say it was very fair today either. But I told you this 5,000 really comes from this Geomedia survey. I think this idea hasn't come to an end, in the sense that this 5,000 is like some red line that no local government can do when it's below, and that everyone can do when they cross. When it comes to guts and maturity, as I said before, I very much support the task of giving local authorities more tasks and responsibilities, of course, with funding, because I think they are the most operational in resolving very many issues. I really like this direction. I'd even say it's like the direction of trust, whether we trust or not. I think we need to trust local authorities, especially now that we know that there are many times fewer of them after 15 October and that municipalities are many times bigger and more capable. If you allow me, and if the President of the Riigikogu allows me, I will complete my answer to the first question. You asked for names. Now that I have made this clear, I can say that there were 10 people in this committee: 4 out of one municipality and 3 out of two. These data are available on the website, although they may be difficult to find. I am not going to read these names in the Riigikogu Chair, but I sent them to you about five minutes ago by e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U100	There are no further questions about this question to the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U101	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to make a clarification of the parish of Koeru as such. The dogs have been mainly part of Lääne-Virumaa. The dog itself has been part of Järvamaa, but the parish has largely been part of Lääne-Virumaa. Ambla has historically belonged to Lääne-Virumaa. That's what I said to continue with Monika's question. Now, some observations or thoughts. First of all, in Järva County's example, there is a very keen question as to which one should be first, either an initiative or a question as to whether one is more dominant. I don't quite understand it myself. We also asked the Chancellor of Justice today to come to this Chamber to explain this. Under the Local Government Organisation Act, at least 1% of residents, but not less than five residents, are able to apply to the Council. They were already presented from the spring of last year, i.e. before the administrative reform law came into force on 1 July last year. Unfortunately, when the appeal was submitted in May, for example, and in the meantime the new law came into force, the Council has now started to delay the formulation of the response. For example, in the area of Puka, they don't even know how to formulate it because they're a little confused. In Järva rural municipality, residents of Ambla and Käravete area have made an appeal concerning the circa's thousands of inhabitants. Allowing these villages to move under the rural municipality of Tapa, which is their common tensile centre, they are so close to it, I myself went there at the end of the late week and saw it, then neither the 5000 population criteria will therefore be met in Järva municipality. The number on the website of the Ministry of Finance indicates that there are a total of 7114 residents. If you subtract 1,000 people from it, it wouldn't be a very big tragedy. The question is whether people's opinions are also taken into account, even on the basis of their daily activities relating to work, school and also shopping centres. My request to the government is, however, that the position of the people of these villages be taken seriously and given them the authority to move forward with the municipality of Tapa. The second observation is that the correction of errors really does come, and not just in the case mentioned by the Prime Minister, that the issues of the revenue base should be resolved. You said before that the correction of errors must also be made in the case of those who could still join, but unfortunately we must also provide for the correction of errors to those who wish to separate and break up. Yes, the municipality is one territory, but this territory is dominated by people of different values. If you can't put them together, there's no point in keeping a lot of different units together. Of course, life sets things right. My message is also that the share of villages in larger municipalities is increasing, but if we startle these villages and not accept their contribution morally, then peripheralisation, moving to cities and moving away from Estonia will increase. The government should take into account that administrative reform must not be an incentive to empty Estonia. The third major request is that please step out of the boots of the Reform Party. In opposition, when the administrative reform was prepared, you were quite similar to the Free Party. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U102	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U103	You were absolutely in agreement that shifting borders should be the final step. What happened was what we didn't even want to admit. You were very quick to identify with the actions of the previous government and previous Heads of Government. Expectations and hopes for you have been very positive. So please drop this jacket and be the Centre Party, don't be the Reform Party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U104	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U105	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Good listeners! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm happy to come here, because as a resident of Järvamaa, I'm always happy to hear about Järva County. That's why I always like to say the word in these matters. First of all, thank the Free Party for asking about Järvamaa! Some things you might agree with, but some of them, of course, don't. First of all, listening to all the questions, I got a pretty weird impression at times. On the one hand, it is like a desire to talk about the self-determination of villages and their need to assert themselves. However, on the other hand, the Prime Minister expressed his wish that a stronger action should be taken and that the state should establish itself. These are slightly contradictory proposals. It has been dealt with local governments, and it is certainly very good that the Free Party has done so. But I'm coming to the administrative reform law now. The law can be good or bad, the Prime Minister may or may not be in the boots of the Reform Party. In fact, the question is not whether the law is good or not, but whether the administrative reform is coming or not. The question is that administrative reform is possible in these boots or there will be no such reform at all. The direct question now is: is it better if there is no reform at all or if it does? Obviously, the choice has been made on the basis that it is better for the administrative reform to come. This is the way forward. However, if you look at Järvamaa, the story of forming this parish, this so-called gut, is really poor. That's really the minus of this law. I think this is an example of whether the administrative reform will not stop yet, but it will probably continue for the next four or even eight years. It is certainly quite difficult to call successful such intestinal areas, where it is very difficult to find a common identity for people living in the parish of Järva-Madis in the Albu parish, and for people living perhaps at the other end of this gut, in the former Pilistvere parish of Viljandimaa. It's very hard to imagine one identity. It is much easier to imagine a single Järva identity, on which it is like building a municipality. But I also remember what made these differences in Dog County. At first, these municipalities, in an effort to avoid Paide as a county centre, decided that they would make a centre for Kareda, near the smallest rural municipality. Then they all agreed. But when we got to the end of the line, it turned out that Dog as the biggest would still want the center, and Järva-Jaani would also want it. Then they got into a fight, actually because of such a small and simple question, where is the rural municipality centre? That's why the Dog's division took place. It was such a sad move. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U107	That's how the story went. The dilemma is now: whether it would be more reasonable to say by order that you make a county-based municipality, whether in Võrumaa or Järvamaa, or whether the municipalities should have the right to take an initiative, or whether it should remain on the village level. It is clear that it would have been quite reasonable for Saaremaa to have been able to agree with each other, and perhaps the county is one municipality. Such options would certainly have been good in many other counties, including Järvamaa. Although in Järvamaa it should be borne in mind that the people of Türi municipality do not support a single Järva municipality. The business of Türi and Paide is almost the same as that of Tallinn and Tartu. There's probably more places like this. So it wouldn't be very likely, because Türi people certainly do not support a single Järva municipality. I think that time will demand it, and at one point it will certainly be achieved, whether in four or eight years' time, if the county dimension comes back more strongly across Estonia. I'll look at the questions of the Free Party. Much has been dealt with by Järva County Elder, this is very positive! A political motive has also been introduced, namely, the fact that no political party organising the reform has made choices in the interests of its better position. I'm gonna bring a little political vignette here, too. I am pleased that the Free Party supported the NPO of Järva County Elder with EUR 5 000 for roofing money, which includes two people who are registered in an apartment and have not worked very hard. There are malicious people who say it was somehow politically motivated, but I do not believe it, I do not support that idea. I believe that the Free Party has not always identified itself as a party, but rather as a party-like association. That's why I don't suspect anything like that. I think it is very good to support local culture with one, two or fifty members and local development. That is why I think, in conclusion, that the administrative reform is going as reforms often tend to go: the idea is one, but the result is another. However, there was probably no way of leaving the decision-making power of their governments. In that case, there would have been a completely different debate here. Then, in any case, the opposition and the coalition would have turned out to be in a position to be impossible if local authorities were not taken into account. That might have been even worse. So we just have to pay this fee today so that at some point we can reach a more reasonable administrative arrangement with a more territorial dimension, whether in Võru County, Järvamaa or any other municipality or region. So let us go ahead boldly with the administrative reform! Time will tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U108	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I am pleased to say from this remote point of view that the administrative reform is going forward, even though it has been said both the same and the other way around, that it should turn back or not do anything. I am also quite excited to be here, because I am a resident of Käru rural municipality and the municipality of Käru is about to become part of Järvamaa. So in that sense, it's really nice, but I didn't come here for a remote not to let you know. I just wanted to respond to Külliki Hatter's speech when he called for Prime Minister Ratas to step out of the shoes of the Reform Party. I think Prime Minister Ratas has certainly done it with a great arch, there is no doubt about it. But to the Free Party, I'm just saying, although I know that you have much more opinions than the Külliik Hatter's, that this type of appeal is exactly like that, if there is nothing else to say, then the Reform Party will be called and mocked. Let me remind you that we are in opposition with you. The role of the opposition is to hold debates and talk about content, not about any form. I think Jaanus Marandi here gave a good example of how to share the money from the roof and everything you and your moral beacon Artur Talvik have been looking at for years. You'll be full of being in the Riigikogu for two years. Start being a party, start making politics, don't blame it on me all the time. If your entire mission was to get the Reform Party out of the government, as Artur Talvik put it that day, then your mission here in the Riigikogu may have ended, or at least the mission of Arthur and yours, Külliiki. At least stop this shit in this Riigikogu, that there is always a party to blame for all the troubles in the world! But thank you and congratulations to the government that the administrative reform will be completed, because it has indeed been expected for years both in local governments and in the wider electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U110	Külliki's Hatter's name was mentioned in his statement, and he probably wants to say something as an objection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U111	Thank you. It was named twice. My message was that the previous government coalition started very clearly from behind the administrative reform, and it has in no way contributed to Estonia's development. What is more, because we had a party ruling our country for almost 17 years, because of the tax and bureaucracy system, we started to take our country back into decline. I would have expected the Prime Minister's party to take a little time off in the course of administrative reform, to slow down the pace and to look at the substantive issues that are forcing the correction of errors in one way or another, and only then could this last process, which has now begun, have begun. This criticism of the party of the previous Prime Minister is justified in this sense. We should grow up politically and also suffer from substantive criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U112	The negotiations are continuing. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U113	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good people's representatives! Administrative reform is probably important for the whole of Estonia. The fact that we are discussing this here today is only to be welcomed. It makes no sense for us to start tagging one side or the other. After all, we are all responsible for making Estonia better with administrative reform. There are individual questions about Järvamaa's guts, Alutaguse's rural municipality or the very, very old and respectable parish name Võnnu, which we must talk about, express our opinion and try to find the best solution together. The fact that Kalle Palling started blaming the Free Party immediately scared me. It scared me so much that I got up and I wanted to say that there is no need to label one, another or third with one or another label that you are it or that's it. This is not the level that the XIII Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia could afford. We have differences of opinion and they are completely natural in democracy. We have differences of opinion on a wide range of issues, but when publishing them, we must not lose courtesy against each other. Thank you and the strength to complete the administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U114	The speaker, Kalle Palling, now named the name, so Kalle Palling has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U115	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister, it is a real shame that you have to listen to this debate here. I, above all, responded to the call of Külliki Hatter to step out of the shoes of the Reform Party and make a sensible administrative reform. Of course, I take all of this personally, because at a time when the Reform Party was under government responsibility, the administrative reform was one of the most important things agreed by the then government coalition. This is indeed a reform that has been awaited for years. I say to Krista and all my other friends from the Free Party that I really apologize if this speech of mine somehow came to your heart! But to me Külliki Hatter's saying about the great shoes of the Reform Party, from which it was recommended to step out. Indeed, once again, Jüri, to the government, that the administrative reform was continued. I think it's time to grow up. It is not possible to blame the Reform Party for all things that are bad in this country, because there are even six political parties in Parliament and one of these six parties is the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U116	There is a desire in my soul to give the floor to Helmut Hallemaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U117	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! There is a desire in my soul to speak. Let us become friends and remain friends, although the administrative reform is certainly this issue, not to mention the reform of the state, which triggers emotions and forces us to fight. It's natural. But I'll bring out a few dates. It's February 20th. On 24 February we will celebrate the 99th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia and in a year's time the Republic of Estonia will be 100. On 15 October, we will select new municipalities within the new borders and they will work on 1 January 2018. In fact, we are completing an administrative-territorial reform today, which means reshaping borders and, unfortunately, drawing them on some sides. But we have a year to complete this administrative reform here, to give more money, tasks and functions, and to leave as many places in the country as is necessary and possible. I think we really need to act quickly, but there is plenty of time, even more than ten months. So, on 1 January 2018, when new municipalities actually start working, they are stronger, more capable and more substantial than they are today, and they really have rights and money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U118	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests for speech, nor does the Prime Minister want a word. This item has been exhausted. The enquiries have been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U119	Free mike. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U120	I'm going on about the same subject we've been talking about here for the last few hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Last week, I asked the Prime Minister what he was planning to lose. The Prime Minister replied to the question, at least this way I understood that since the beginning of next year, the country's governments are definitely going to lose. With regard to the positions of rural elders, he said that it was not yet certain whether they would be abolished or not. As far as counties are concerned, they are not to be lost. These things, however, are all connected. If the ruling coalition loses the land government, then the question arises as to what happens to the land elders. If they remain in office, there may in principle be several solutions. Maybe they're special officials outside the capital, or they're being brought, on the contrary, to some ministry. But in any case, there's a way to think about how it could all be. As far as the remaining counties are concerned, my main point now is that the counties will disappear in themselves as a result of all this. It may be written somewhere that they exist, but they're losing meaning. It must be very clear which counties we are talking about. There have been at least four county systems in Estonia which differ significantly. First there were ancient counties, there were seven major counties (in the north of Harju, Viru and Järva, in the west of Saare and Lääne and in the south of Sakala and Ugandi), and through Estonia a series of small or single parish counties went. The second system was in the Russian Empire at the end of the 19th century. The memory of it will persist until now. The counties of that time were called the üjezds in Russian, while the German was used to call them the Prussian. It is important to us that the city of Valga belonged to the district of Valga, which was mostly located in the Latvian language region. Then the counties of the Republic of Estonia came. In 1921, Valgamaa was created, and as a result of the War of Independence, Petseri County came. The current 15 are descendants of the Soviet districts. The most remarkable thing is that the three current counties have emerged around the successful railway stations of their own time, they are the counties of Rapla, Jõgeva and Põlva, and it is completely incomprehensible why our second largest island of Hiiumaa was considered worthy of a separate county. The existence of rural governments has so far held back the tendency that most state institutions are not located within the county's borders with one institution, but are predominantly grouped into four parts of Estonia. By the way, already in 1993, a committee of the Riigikogu recommended such a quadruple. They're talking about four regions. I call for us to find a name in our own language against the dangerous attack on the word'region'. But if it goes the way it is, the counties in their current form will soon lose all practical content. They are no longer needed for the Estonian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U122	Good manager! Colleagues! In fact, the Riigikogu does not have to be very large, seven pagans are enough. But I would also like to intervene on this subject, which has been under discussion all day. Yes, the cupcake was launched during the last coalition, and I, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have been very close to baking this cupcake. I would remind you that we are now in the coalition, and I am now a member of the Prime Minister's party, but in fact our group voted as one man against the administrative reform law. Our good friends, the Social Democrats and the IRL voted in favour at the time. These problems, which were already present at the time of the cookie, are well known to me and my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You remember the whole dogmatic approach, the 5,000 inhabitants. Even the coalition members at the time, Toomas Kivimägi, Andres Metsoja and Mark Soosaar, appealed that this criterion could be met by 90%, but the coalition voted it down. I voted in favour of it. These problems persist to this day. The same question of Võnnu that kind of cut me in the ear because I myself am a resident of this future tripartite. Most people expressed the opinion that Võnnu municipality should be, but a small group of councils decided that there would be a retirement home in the municipality of Kastre vald. Everything that Mr Aru spoke about here very wisely is very common. A little company of officials actually did it. Why aren't people participating in these interviews? These percentages have been tiny and ridiculous, as Mr Arno Bridge said here. Of course, we have written in this law that yes, it is three months before it can be asked, but the results of the survey are not mandatory. It's playing democracy, fooling around. And the results are here. Or we could look at the Tartulands. We have this kind of weird formation. We have such a blind-solovalve, centred on the Tartu parish, the Laeva parish is at one end, and the punktina i-i still has Piirissaare. In fact, the plan was to make it to Peipsi Beach, Lohusuu, one of the giant parishes, but it didn't come out. Then there's all the "bombhole" that nobody wants. The current government is trying to see how to weld them somewhere and what to do with their huge debts. So the problems are very serious. By the way, Jüri Ratas does not have to step out of the shoes of the Reform Party. I would remind you that the previous president of the Reform Party's shoes were small, but his predecessor, Andrus Ansip's shoes were much bigger and they were very well aligned with the opinion of me and our group when we voted against the administrative reform. After all, Andrus Ansip said that there was no need for such a reform. But what's the most important thing? We're trying to put into practice this piece of cake or cake that was put into effect during the previous government. But the most important thing is the content, the financial capacity of local authorities, so that they are really decision-makers. After all, the current situation is rather sad, with 25% of the funds available to local authorities, while 75% is used by the state. Our current goal is to increase the proportion of municipalities by 5%. Although it means hundreds of millions, it is very, very far away from Nordic and European levels, there is a percentage of 50.60. Just a few more minutes, please! But if there's no more, the day will be over, and I'll say hello to everyone! So good night!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-20_U123	A very reasonable ending, at least. There is no further wish to speak in the free microphone. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 5.47 p.m.
