ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the V plenary session on Thursday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to a consensual decision of the National Defence Committee including 18 April, the National Defence Committee initiates a draft law amending § 7 of the National Defence Act. The State Budget Act, which is a general law, defines the requirements for drawing up, implementing and amending strategic development documents. According to the new draft, the National Defence Act is a special law and lays down the special nature of the procedure for the development plan in the field of national defence. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U3	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! By paraphrasing a classic, it can be said that the opposition, whose goal is to lower the price of beer, will not last long. This is what the Reform Party will draw from when it submits to the Riigikogu proceedings a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws aimed at lowering the price of beer and wine. Our proposal is to restore the rates of excise duty, which were confirmed by the government and approved by the Riigikogu in 2015 as the highest possible in terms of the state budget, public health and the Estonian economy. We do not see any negative consequences for the state budget when these rates are restored. The forecast for the income of alcohol excise has already been reduced due to the reduction in border trade and turnover; Estonian producers and Estonian merchants are already suffering because these rates are too high. We do not see any danger to public health if these rates are lowered. On the contrary, it will stop tilting consumption in favour of strong alcohol and will certainly help resolve this constitutional dispute that is currently in the Supreme Court. The government can start making a budget based on legitimate tax rates. I believe that, thanks to all this positive, there is a great consensus on this issue in this Chamber between the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U5	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U6	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party, I will give Prime Minister Jüri Ratas an inquiry into the programme of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. As we all know, Estonia has been taking over the leadership of the Council of the European Union from Malta since July. Estonia's European Union policy was adopted on 10 December 2015, but the situation in Europe has changed a lot since then. There is no certainty that this document, on the basis of which we have established our programme for the Presidency of the European Union, meets current needs. The document, which was approved in 2015, does not reflect the latest developments in the European Union, highlights neither the crisis in EU governance nor other existential problems. It is therefore reasonable to ask whether the Government of the Republic is going along with time, whether it is able to ensure, at such a difficult time, the effective conduct of debates that are important to the European Union. In this regard, we have asked the Prime Minister seven detailed questions, to which we are awaiting answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U7	Thank you. Please, a procedural question, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Here's the procedural question. We've got the meeting materials on our desks and some railroad commercials with them. Was it born on your own orders? Are these books part of the agenda? And can we expect to be given condom ads, whiskey ads, or something else, along with the hearing materials? How can such literature be included in the case files?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U9	Thank you. The time for the announcements is actually coming, and I was going to talk about it, but since you asked me about it, thank you for the opportunity to explain. These publications, which have been distributed on your tables, are not part of the hearing material. These have been shared by your colleagues from the EKRE Group. In general, it is not a good practice to share materials, invitations or leaflets on the tables of members of the Riigikogu, but these are materials distributed by the members of the Riigikogu themselves, and I believe that the board does not need to apply censorship in the interaction between the members of the Riigikogu. Each of you can decide what to do with this publication and whether or not you like the views expressed in it. At the same time, whether we can share any of our colleagues' materials in this Chamber could be discussed among ourselves so that the rules can be well established. For now, however, you can decide for yourself what to do with this publication. Do you have a procedural question, Jaak Madison? Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vasilyev, I believe that this is a very useful literature to expand your horizons as well. As we have heard, prior to the beginning of the sitting, the order had already been given to collect these materials from the tables, but thanks to the operational decision of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and a reasonable attitude, this did not happen. There's been an incident like this once in this hall. In our opinion, however, freedom in relations between members of the Riigikogu is necessary and so we could be able to share the materials that we think are necessary. Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U11	Thank you for this addition. This was not a procedural question, and I generally invite members of the Riigikogu to uphold the good manners that have prevailed in this Chamber. Last time the drink was shared here, but, as I recall, it has been good practice for a couple of decades that there is no trouble between tables with food and drink in the Chamber. I think it's a practice worth sticking to. So in that sense, I'm certainly not going to opt for the decision to pick up these bottles. I believe that members of the Riigikogu can share leaflets and other materials outside the hall. However, there is also reason to discuss in a calm manner what material can be distributed in this Chamber, either in the board or in the body of elders, so that customs can be found in a nice place. But this time, since it was an initiative of members of the Riigikogu, I did not think it was necessary to prevent members of the Riigikogu from communicating with each other. At the same time, I hope that this will not happen too often, that flyers and other materials will not be constantly distributed here. A procedural question, Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U12	I would like to say that I do not need any help in dealing with the EKRE Group. I don't want any flyer and Madison pictures on my desk or anything that's been taken for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U13	Thank you. This was not a procedural question either, but thank you for explaining this. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now the messages. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, my announcement is about the publications that are on your desk and in the drawer. I suggest you take them with you, because your tables and chairs will be used by other people on the day of the open doors. You will be able to do so even after the hearing. [[Big buzz in the hall.]] I understand the anxiety in the ground, but everyone wants to see what's in their drawer. You do not have to do this; this is a recommendation from the Riigikogu Board. The members of the Riigikogu are competent to decide for themselves what to do with their materials, whether or not to take them with them. But there's a suggestion. Now, please, let's do the presence check. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U14	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? Martin Helme, on behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U15	I'm not going to the remote, I have a short speech. Firstly, we are going to vote against this law because it strengthens and increases a big brother that is not right for us. Secondly, I want to get rid of Kristen Michal before the sound of it. This brochure is not made for taxpayers' money. I want it to go to the verbatim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U16	Are there any other requests to speak? Doesn't look like it. Then I'll close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 383. I am voting on the draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 383. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, with 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Bill 383 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-20_U17	Today's second item is the third reading of the Bill 384 on the Amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the groups want to open negotiations? No, I don't. In that case, the negotiations shall not be opened. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 384, and we will start preparing the vote. I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 384. Please take a stand and vote. May I have your attention, please? 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 384 has been passed as a law. We have no further items on today's agenda. The sitting is adjourned. I wish everyone a good day's work! Closure of the sitting at 10.16 a.m.
