ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. I am opening the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the VI plenary session. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Incoming check, please! 66 parliamentarians will take part in the meeting, 35 will be absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U2	Today's first item is the second reading of the draft Act 528 on the ratification of the 2016 Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Meelis Mälberg, member of the Environment Committee for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated this draft law consisting of a single sentence on 23 October including. The first reading in this Chamber ended on 22 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 29 November 2017. No amendments to the draft law were tabled. The content of this draft is that in 2016, hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, were included in the Montreal Protocol in Kigali, the list of ozone-depleting substances. During the period between first and second readings, the draft was dealt with by the Commission on one occasion: 4 December. As there were no amendments, only procedural decisions were taken by the Commission at the meeting. For the sake of accuracy, it should be pointed out that the draft has, however, made linguistic and technical clarifications which in no case alter the substance of the draft. The Commission's decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be put to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, i.e. by 12 December, and to propose a final vote on the draft. As usual, the Committee on the Environment made its decisions in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not Meelis Mälberg's job to talk you out of it, but even less to talk about you. Please listen to the waitresses with more attention. Meelis Mälberg had no questions. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, everyone will be able to negotiate. That is not what I want, and I will close negotiations without opening them. No amendments were tabled on draft 528, so we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on draft Act 528 on ratification of the 2016 amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The bill had 75 votes for and 4 against, with one abstention. Draft Act 528 on the ratification of the 2016 amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U5	Secondly, the second reading of the draft Act 523 on Support for Enterprise and Amending the National Guarantee of Loans, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Raivo Põldaru, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U6	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Law on Support for Enterprise and Guarantee for Loans, including on 9 October. As a reminder, the purpose of the draft law is to ensure that business and housing loans guaranteed by the State continue to be issued. Given the growth in demand and the increase in previous volumes in 2016, the limits allowed for both business and housing loans will remain small in the near future. The growth in the loan portfolio has led to the KredEx guarantee portfolio close to the statutory limit, so the issue of guaranteed loans should be stopped in the near future or could be continued in very small volumes. However, there is still a need for guarantees. Due to the expected increase in the portfolio of guarantee loans over the 2017-2022 period, there is a need to increase the maximum volume of guarantees for business loans in force by EUR 60 million, i.e. EUR 220 million, and the maximum volume of guarantees for residential loans by EUR 74 million, i.e. EUR 170 million. The amendment will make it possible to guarantee loans to a larger number of companies, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, and to a larger extent. This will contribute to setting up businesses, expanding their activities or making the work process more effective and finding new solutions. Continuing to issue loan guarantees will help to alleviate the market failure and sub-optimal investment situation, where companies have insufficient access to loan capital, and to further secure loans for the purchase of housing or the improvement of living conditions, ensuring better living conditions for Estonian residents with limited financial means. The main objective of guaranteeing loans is to improve access to capital. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 22 November. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed sending the draft to second reading at its meeting on 4 December, where no proposals were made. However, the draft text was editorially edited between two readings. Technical and linguistic changes have therefore been made to the draft. The decisions of the commission were as follows: it was proposed to send the draft to this second reading today, 12 December, and it was proposed to close the second reading. It was also decided that, should the second reading of the draft be completed, the final vote on the draft should be taken within a week, i.e. on 19 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U7	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. As you have heard, no amendments have been tabled to this draft law. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 523. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U8	Third item: Second reading of draft road haulage law 488 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The draft law on road transport was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 19 June. The first reading of the bill was held in Riigikogu plenary on 10 October and the first reading was closed. The draft was already submitted to the first reading as amended. The provisions concerning the professional and continuing training of taxi drivers were deleted from the draft Road Transport Act, as the Riigikogu had also adopted on 14 June the Act amending the Public Transport Act, the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act (188, SE), which excluded provisions from the current law that obliged taxi drivers to undergo professional training. The purpose of the draft law on road transport, compared to the current law on road transport, is to specify a number of conditions laid down by law as regards access to and pursuit of the activities of the carrier and the liability of the carrier for the organisation of road transport operations. The draft legislation harmonises authorisation procedures with those laid down in the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act, but also sets out some differences arising from European Union legislation and for which the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities cannot be implemented. The consignor is subject to certain obligations, as well as to liability in the event of non-compliance. The rights of the national supervisory authority in the control of established requirements, in the prevention of non-compliant road transport and in the imposition of penalties shall be extended. It will also facilitate the use of documents necessary for road transport. For example, the obligation to carry documents whose existence can be verified by national registers is waived in national transport operations. During the procedure, representatives of the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, the Association of Car Companies, the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, the Institute of Logistics, the Estonian Association for the Management of Shopping and Supply Chains and the Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association approached the Economic Commission with proposals and opinions. Representatives of the professional associations in the field of transport were also involved in the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which took place on 4 December. The special purpose vehicles proposed to amend § 34 (4) of the draft Road Transport Act with a view to clarifying the obligation for the consignor to be responsible for compliance with the requirements laid down in the Road Transport Act as regards the mass and dimensions of the load when the load is placed by the consignor. The representatives of the professional associations also proposed that § 34 (6) be deleted from the draft, which provides for the responsibility of the driver for placing, securing and covering the load, if the driver carries out these tasks on behalf of the transport manager, since the responsibilities of the transport manager are set out in subsection 5 of the same section. In addition, the representatives of the professional associations proposed that § 72 be deleted from the draft, which follows from the previous proposal. The debate on 4 December was quite long and thorough. Jaak Kivisild, representative of the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, introduced the proposals. Eda Rembel, the leading specialist in the transport and traffic services of MKM, said that according to MKM, there is no need to include a reference to § 80 of the Traffic Act in § 34 (4) of the Road Transport Act. This would be a repetition, since the same reference is made to § 34 (3) of the Road Transport Act. It would be problematic for the supervisory authority to determine whether the requirement arises under paragraphs 3 or 4. Jaak Kivisild quoted the second sentence of § 34 (3) of the draft and stressed that the transport chain is a long process with many parties where the distribution of responsibility can vary considerably depending on the contracts concluded between the parties. The amount of the load is determined by the person who fills the truck with the goods. According to current practice, the driver is usually responsible, although he cannot determine or measure the quantity of goods. Modern loaders measure the mass of the load at the time of loading and the meters are in the possession of the charger. Sven Sester asked whether MKM considered that the law clearly and fairly laid down liability. Eda Rembel said that the current version is appropriate, but it is important to train supervisors when the law enters into force. Transport organisations have allowed training to work together. Ain Tatter thought it was unwise to impose an obligation on the police to search for cargo chargers. A professional carrier will understand if the cargo is too heavy. Jaak Kivisild said that an opinion was sent to the Economic Commission from the representatives of the Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, the Institute of Logistics, the Estonian Association for the Management of the Shopping and Supply Chain, the Estonian Logistics and Freight Forwarding Association, the Association of Car Companies and the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, where the position of MKM on the division of responsibility was overturned. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked who should be held liable when the carrier has loaded the cargo onto the car after receiving the cargo. Jaak Kivisild explained that responsibility should be shared in the logistical chain on the basis of who must fulfil the obligation. According to practice in Europe, loading is the responsibility of the consignor and the carrier is responsible for compliance with traffic law requirements. According to Estonian law, too much responsibility falls on the carrier. Eda Rembel said that MKM considers that the carrier and the shipper must agree to the contract of carriage on the responsibility for placing, securing and covering. Ain Tatter added that if the safety requirements were not met, the car should not be driven out, regardless of the terms of the contract of carriage. Mr Tori explained that it was not possible to measure the cargo with the eye as accurately as the weight. The weight of the load may depend, for example, on the moisture level of the load. Electronic accompanying documents could ensure transparency and clarity of responsibility for the entire supply chain. If loaded, the data would automatically be transferred to an electronic delivery note. The police would get access to the accompanying documents through the X-Road. Ain Tatter said that police practice usually allows visual identification of the overload and that the load is generally exceeded to a large extent. The law does not require the police to have access to accompanying documents. In that case, the law should be supplemented. Eda Rembel presented the Ministry's views on the proposal to replace the words 'filling of accompanying documents' in § 73 (1) of the Road Transport Act with'mass and dimensions'. MKM accepted the proposal in part. The corresponding amendment is made to § 72 (1), the wording of which is amended as follows: 'The failure by the shipper or freight forwarder to submit accompanying documents or false declarations concerning the weight or dimensions of the cargo shall be punishable by a penalty of up to 200 fine units. ' MKM is interested in an amendment as described by transport organisations. Jaak Kivisild said that the Police and Border Guard Board has expressed the view that they are not going to control foreign carriers in the case of road user charges. Due to the opposition of the Ministry of the Interior and the PBGB, it has not been possible to include in the Road Transport Act the necessary provisions to ensure the control, fine and collection of fines for foreign carriers. This wording is acceptable to carriers but is unlikely to be supported by supervisory bodies. Ain Tatter added that the police cannot be obliged to carry out supervision activities on a continuous basis in the companies accompanying cargo, as this would be an overly burdensome obligation. Villem Tori said that a similar system works well in the case of log transport. Carriers and cargo transmitters use Timbeter, a mobile app that can estimate the volume of timber transported on the basis of a picture taken from a mobile phone. The monitoring bodies will be able to obtain information from Timbeter's mobile application. Jaak Kivisild added that this amendment would not solve the situation because the form of the consignment note had not been established. This means that for the quantity of cargo, you can choose whether to indicate the weight or volume of the cargo on the delivery note. If the volume is given, the weight may vary. Ain Tatter asked why this issue would not be resolved by means of transport contracts. Jaak Kivisild explained that there is an oversupply in the transport industry, which is why there is always a supplier who is willing to comply with the contract of carriage even in breach of the conditions. Sven Sester proposed to amend the fourth amendment and to formulate § 34 in accordance with the wishes of the stakeholders. Erki Savisaar suggested that one possibility was to include a requirement that the accompanying document should bear the weight of the consignment. Ain Tatter said that the accompanying document is a document of debt law whose content should not be governed by the law on road transport. The purpose of the Road Transport Act is to ensure road safety on Estonian roads and not to regulate civil relations between the sender and the carrier. Sven Sester thought it was reasonable to assume that the carrier had the necessary information on its cargo. Eda Rembel pointed out that the supervisory authorities would not be able to deal with the infringements under this amendment. Sven Sester said that this is not an insurmountable problem because the provisions are compatible. In the end, the Economic Commission supported the proposal of the professional associations to amend § 34 (4) of the draft Road Transport Act with a view to clarifying the obligation for the consignor to be responsible for the compliance of the mass and dimensions of the load with the requirements laid down in the Road Transport Act when the load is placed by the consignor. Consequently, the fourth amendment was supplemented by sub-proposal 4.2. In addition to lengthy disputes, decisions were taken: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (consensus), secondly, to propose that the second reading be stopped (also by consensus), thirdly, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, 19 December (consensus) and fourthly, to propose that the final vote on the draft be (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U10	To the waitress of the round of questions, Toomas will open Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! My question in the Committee on Economic Affairs is also a very highly debated issue, i.e. the limitation of the responsibility of the shipper and the carrier. You also mentioned in your report that a professional carrier will understand if the weight of the load is greater than it should be. That wasn't your argument, you quoted the position of MKM's representative. This is certainly not the case in reality. I think that the professional carrier is more or less able to assess whether the volume of the cargo is as much as it normally has or not, but the weight of the cargo is very difficult for him to estimate due to moisture and other circumstances. Why is it still not possible for the state to define the form and content of delivery notes? If it really was said clearly that there must be weight on it, then it would be very clear. And the shipper often has substantially more accurate information about the weight of the cargo than the carrier.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U12	Thank you. I completely agree with you that an eye evaluation is very subjective. It is also very difficult to assess the speed of the vehicle with the eye. It is equally difficult to estimate the mass of the vehicle because it depends on a wide range of technical parameters. We had a debate on this extension of the journey form. The Ministry's position was that it was the wrong law to regulate it, referred to the Law of Obligations Act. I think it's worth discussing and thinking about. Perhaps it would be worth changing the relevant clause of the Law of Obligations Act so that this mass can be written there. From the point of view of traffic law, it is this mass requirement, not so much other requirements, that is very important. The load gauge can be assessed very well: if it goes over the car gauge, it can be clearly seen, including in terms of height.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U13	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. I don't see any negotiation requests. There are 13 amendments to the draft 488 and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The same decision and the same proposal are made for the second amendment. The third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, 10, 11, 12 and 13 amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The amendments to the draft 488 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 488. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U14	Fourth item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Jaanus Marrand, Member of the Economic Commission, would like to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you, at second reading, draft 381, i.e. the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 February. The first reading took place on 22 March and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 5 April. By this time five amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups. Further reading of the bill was interrupted in spring. The draft relating to alcohol policy needs coordination from other EU Member States, which is why the draft has become entangled in further reading after the first reading. They returned to the reading of the bill in the autumn, on 14 November. Discussions were also held on 7 December and 11 December. The topics related to this draft were also discussed between these dates and renegotiated when a number of working meetings took place between the initiators, members of the Riigikogu and officials. I now come to the discussions that took place before the second reading, and above all to the debate that took place on 14 November. This was a public hearing, where a number of interested companies, associations, representatives of local governments, etc. were heard after a long period of time. Since this break was really very long, it made sense to have a public hearing in order to hear again the opinions of all the organisations and companies concerned. More than 30 were formally received by the Commission and more than one was received from some of the Community. I will highlight five framework themes that were under discussion at the public meeting on 14 November. First of all, the debate on restrictions on the display of alcohol. The second issue: restrictions on sales in catering establishments. Thirdly, restrictions on the content and form of advertising. Fourthly, the single price for alcohol in larger and smaller sales packages. And the fifth theme: restrictions on alcohol advertising on television, radio and social media. These were the five topics that were discussed more widely by all the organisations, companies and also the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I am not going to read all these companies and organisations here, since there are really many of them. I call them 'from the edge': the Estonian Traders' Association, the Association of Beer Producers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Foundation of the Student Association, the Society of Grass Science of the University of Tartu, the Abstinence Movement, the Society of Estonian Medical Students, as well as Tallink and Tallinn Airport. So there were representatives from the wall to the wall. The debate on all these issues was very long and it is more sensible to report in detail through the drafting of amendments. During this long debate, the Committee on Economic Affairs chose a relatively consensual discussion. We tried to find a common part of healthy behaviour and more restrictive organisations, alcohol producers and merchants, as well as the initiator, the Ministry of Social Affairs. This resulted in a total of 16 amendments. Speaking about these amendments, the content of the debate that took place at this meeting actually emerges. The debate on the amendments was reached at the meeting of the Commission on 7 December, which was the result of a debate on 14 November and of 16 amendments put together by several letters, meetings and meetings. As I said, five of them had been presented earlier by the political groups of the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu; the other 11 had, on the basis of lengthy discussions, been put together by the Economic Commission itself. First of all, one of the most serious points of dispute was related to the topic of visibility and the area of the sales hall. So the area of the sales hall was one of the issues that was more debated, and this is covered by Amendment 1. It is recalled that in the case of a store, the draft had set 450 square metres in size, from which more restrictions would have to be made, the visibility of the alcohol changed and more allocated. In the course of the draft proceedings, the Committee on Economic Affairs concluded that it would actually be reasonable to abolish this limitation on square metres. On this basis, it was also proposed that alcoholic beverages should not be placed in such a way that the consumer should inevitably be exposed to it when visiting a shop. Such a restriction would apply to all shops which are not exclusively specialised in the sale of alcohol or which are not exempted under Section 40 (4) of the Alcohol Act. It is expected that shopkeepers will think through the placement of alcoholic beverages in the sales hall and, if necessary, make changes and transfers in accordance with the stated purpose. In larger shops, it is wise to set up a separate alcohol department. In general, alcoholic products should not be placed on the road to which the trader directs consumers from other goods or behind or in front of the boxes. Smaller shops should also, if necessary, restructure on the basis of the possibilities of their sales hall. During the debate, we also raised the following question. As we know, alcohol policy in the Green Paper is one of the principles of limiting the availability of alcohol. Consequently, it is said that alcohol should not be readily available or visible to avoid spontaneous purchases. During the debate, the existing restriction was removed from the draft and a new concept was introduced that alcohol should not be "slightly visible'. There were very long discussions in the Commission on this: what does 'visible' mean and what does 'extremely visible' mean? As a result, such an understanding was formed. "Invisible at all" means a total limitation of visibility or separate spaces. 'Remarkably visible' means that alcohol bottles appear somewhere between shelves or that in large stores there are no alcohol boxes on the people's way of travel for a cheap offer. So, "extremely visible" means you can see alcohol bottles somewhere. This situation is actually present in many major shops, such as Prisma stores. Very many Selverides and Rimides also have alcohol placed separately. In order not to be "extremely visible', shops probably need to analyse their activities and relocate certain shelves or alcohol differently. This was the final outcome of the debate, i.e. a position on visibility was reached. I wouldn't talk about it again. We come to Amendment 2. This is the proposal of the Reform Party to remove the limitation of square meters from the draft. It was left out in order to take a flexible approach and not to create a possible constitutional interpretation that this is an unjustified restriction. With regard to this amendment by the Reform Party, it can be said that this has been partially taken into account and that the representatives of the Reform Party that was present at the Commission meeting agreed. Amendment 3 was drafted by Mr Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu. This is exactly the same as the previous one: delete the limitation on the visibility of alcohol from square meters and the requirement that the display of alcohol should not be noticeably visible outside. Since the Commission's proposal No 1 included the deletion of the sqm limit, this proposal was also partially considered to have been taken into account. Amendment 4 had been drafted by the members of the Riigikogu, Olga Ivanova, Andrei Novikov and Martin Repinski. This, too, concerns a limitation based on square meters. I have already described the debate on the draft at length, so it was decided that this proposal, too, would be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 was proposed by the Free Party Group to increase the number of square meters for shops from 450 square metres to 800 square metres. This proposal was not supported by consensus as it links to the concept contained in Amendment 1, which was taken into account. Amendment 6 was from the lead committee. This proposal was prepared on the basis of comments received from several of the organisations involved and was considered. Under the proposal, the presentation of an alcoholic beverage is permitted for the sale of alcohol in shops if the activity is not clearly visible from the rest of the sales hall. Perhaps if there is a demarcated area of alcohol sales, there may be a presentation of an alcoholic beverage, not in other places. It was found that, since such a presentation can only be organised in a larger shop where the visibility of the display of the alcoholic beverage from the rest of the sales hall must be limited, the presentation should not be too intrusive for consumers who have not come to buy alcoholic beverages. We come to Amendment 7, which applies to institutions such as Tallink and Tallinn Airport. According to this, the provisions of the second sentence and paragraph 13 of Section 40 (12) of the Alcohol Act, namely restrictions on the display and trade of alcohol on board water or aircraft used for international passenger transport and on a point of sale in the area of security restricted to an international airport and port, would not apply. The debate on this amendment concluded that alcohol trade at airports around the world is exactly the same: in countries such as Finland, Sweden or Norway, but also in severe, Islamic countries that require total alcohol isolation, with separate alcohol stores. It was also taken into account that more than 50% of passengers passing through the airport are foreigners and polls show that a significant proportion of alcoholic beverages are bought as gifts when going abroad. The airport can also enter the enclosed zone only with a valid boarding ticket and 99% of the buyers of alcoholic beverages leave Estonia. Drinks purchased at an airport are usually higher than the price range and are certainly not administered in large quantities as soon as possible. The airport stores also have consciously limited choice of lean alcohol and the whole trading concept is actually different. The proportion of underage buyers is relatively low, etc. The same reasoning applied to Tallink. Ships are known to move from one port to another and trade there is actually quite different from what is happening in ordinary stores. Moreover, this is a situation where ships from several companies operate on the same line. If, for example, both Swedish and Estonian-flagged passenger ships sail here, the different conditions would clearly create unequal competition in the trading market. That is why we in the Committee on Economic Affairs reached a common position so that it would be reasonable to grant an exception to both airports and ports. Amendment 8 is based on the proposal of the Tallinn Enterprise Board and Tallinn Old Town Society. According to this, it would be possible to limit the retail supply of alcoholic beverages for local consumption in a certain area between 23:00-06.00. It means the whole administrative territory or the restricted area. It is also expected that the imposition of such a restriction will have been thoroughly discussed and considered in the local government in relation to the proportionality of the related breach of the freedom to conduct a business. Perhaps the corresponding time limits must be clearly justified in the entire territory of the municipality or in the demarcated area. Amendment 9 was from the lead committee. It was prepared on the basis of the grounds set out in the proposals made by several organisations that have addressed the Commission. The amendment was formulated by the initiator's representative and was also taken into account. Under the proposal, alcohol advertising is permitted, inter alia, to show the service of alcoholic beverages. This means that a bottle and a glass can be shown on the TV screen, for example, where the drink has been poured out. However, this means that'serving' and'serving' are different concepts. Serving is a process when, for example, beer is brought from a factory with a wagon and finally it reaches the bottle where it is poured. However, this process is limited according to the draft concept. Amendment 10 was from the Reform Party Group and according to it, advertising could also show the original components of the product, the method of production and serving. On the basis of the above, this proposal was not supported. Only 2 members of the Commission were in favour of it, 6 opposed it. Amendment 11...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U16	Honourable waitress, your time is "extremely visible." Would you like more time? It's possible. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U17	... prepared the commission and it was adopted by consensus. This concerns alcohol advertising, which is subject to the principle that it must not represent a positive atmosphere. The proposal contains a list which may not be shown in alcohol advertising. Amendment 12 is about the social media account. However, the introduction of a product could be allowed in social media. This amendment was supported by consensus. It was also proposed to remove from the draft the principle that the unit price of the alcoholic beverage contained in the package should not be more favourable than the price of the individual product from the association of brewers and Tallink. It was found that the restriction did not fulfil its purpose, since it was quite easy to miss. It has been referred to as the so-called Six Pack amendment. According to Amendment 14 and 15, alcohol should not be a prize in lottery and prize games. The last proposal concerns the dates of entry into force. According to this, the amendments relating to paragraphs 12 and 13 of Section 40 of the Alcohol Act would enter into force on 1 June 2019. Part of the paragraphs would also enter into force on 1 June 2018. We have now completed the list of amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session for the second reading on the 12th day of this month, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to the third reading by 20 December and put it to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U18	Tarmo Kruusimäe, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that this local government's ability to restrict the sales of alcohol in catering establishments from 11:00 p.m. in accordance with law enforcement law does not extend to casinos or other establishments where food is not provided in itself, so-called purely cup bars? I'm taking advantage of the opportunity. I have another question. There were different organisations mentioned here, but I didn't hear anything about those representing the rights of alcohol users. It is strange, we are dealing with the traffic code from a pedestrian perspective, but only drivers and cyclists take part in the debate. We assume that since each of us has walked a little, the interests of pedestrians are also protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U20	Because of Estonian folk culture, all people are alcohol users to a lesser or greater extent. As a result, the perceptions of alcohol users were certainly represented. This concerns both the good questioner, the speaker here and probably the other participants in the Commission meeting. But so much of these restrictions that, in certain areas of the administrative territory, it is really possible to ban alcohol consumption in catering establishments at certain times and on specific grounds, and this really does not concern casinos.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U21	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I am pleased that this bill has received a completely different face from the original one when it came out of the government. But my question concerns the issue of visibility. Here, too, this is an important relief: if the bill had previously stated that the display of alcohol must not be 'visible', then it has now been replaced by a much more confusing definition of 'notable visible'. Thus, compared to the original version, the costs incurred by undertakings are significantly lower. But have you seen any impact analysis that tells you how much alcohol consumption will decrease as a result of this administrative measure, which will still entail additional costs for businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U23	The entire draft has been drawn up on the basis of data from a strategic document such as the Green Paper on alcohol policy. The preparation of this Green Paper on alcohol policy in general started in 2011 and a large number of organisations, companies and stakeholders participated in the preparatory work. This book was prepared for three years, so it was ready for 2014. In designing these measures, one very important issue was the availability of alcohol, including visibility. The less visible he is, the less accessible he is. This was one argument and all proposals were drawn up on the basis of the relevant world practice. In this sense, there is nothing new here: it was discussed at various meetings and just as it was at public sessions. This draft has been drawn up on the basis of existing analyses and world practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U24	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U25	Mr President! Honourable waitress! I often doubt the effectiveness of the restrictions, but I have to say that if this number of square meters is still measurable in any way, then this 'visible visibility' is very difficult. That probably makes everything you're telling us from this remote control very important when it comes to the interpretation of this law. Here's my question. If an inspector enters a store and begins to determine this "visibility" what instructions do you give him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U26	I think that a series of guidelines will be accompanied by an explanatory statement and by this whole debate, the course of which is actually known. As I described and the minutes show, the debate was quite long. What the legislator and the initiator of the draft have meant by all of this is also very clear from the debate. I did not open this whole debate to you. As we know, the time was already short, so I didn't start to spread the whole debate on this'showfully visible' and 'visible' here either. I say that this was a very much discussion. At the same time, established practice and guidance materials for certain traders are also a very important factor here. There was also consultation on this wording with the Traders' Association, from which feedback came to suggest that this proposal is appropriate for them: they understand the difference between this's noticeably visible' and 'visible'. But in fact, it is still necessary to take certain steps, to draw up guidance materials, this is a matter of practice. As regards the enforcement of the law, this section of visibility will enter into force at the latest, i.e. in 2019. So there is, in fact, time to complete the relevant practice, including redeployment and expenditure diversification. This change should not go beyond what is necessary for most businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U27	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, If I've been paying attention correctly, basically we should do the third reading of this draft before Christmas. At the same time, we know that there should be a large meeting of three committees during the first week of January, with small merchants. And one of the issues there is what we are discussing right now in this Chamber. Is this an example of good practice in inclusion? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U29	I think that the debate on this draft is quite certainly an example of good practice in inclusion. Before the first reading of this draft, there was a public hearing with over tens of representatives. Just as there was now a sitting with about thirty participants. In all this process, how this draft has been achieved during several governments, a good questioner has himself been involved. In 2011, your party minister worked on this in the Ministry of Social Affairs and a Green Paper on alcohol policy was completed in 2014. So this subject has been discussed for a very long time. I understand that this debate, which takes place after the winter break, is not only about alcohol and tobacco. I would not like to agree that the whole good course of trade relates only to the consumption of alcohol or tobacco. I understand that this is why there are a number of committees represented there, that are trying to discuss a broader aspect, the issue of how to manage the market for small traders. Perhaps other conclusions are reached that do not concern, for example, the law on alcohol or the law on tobacco. So obviously, this is a wider issue than just the two laws on alcohol and the advertising law that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U30	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U31	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not going to discuss noticeable or absolute visibility. But in the preamble to the Coalition Treaty, there is such an order that every bill must contribute to resolving the population crisis and curbing emigration. And my question is how this bill contributes to resolving the population crisis and stopping emigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U32	That's a good question. For the third or fourth time, I come back to the Green Paper on alcohol policy, one of the objectives of which is to reduce the consumption of alcohol among young people, which is very clearly written. The later alcohol consumption starts and the less it does, the more viable the Estonian people will undoubtedly be, the healthier they will be. There is definitely a link here; it is certainly linked to the health and sustainability of the Estonian people. And I would like to emphasise once again that this has been the relatively consensual policy of several governments and coalitions that the current coalition is implementing. But, yeah, there's definitely a connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U33	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your comprehensive review, you also touched on the changes that await the advertising of alcohol. Would you please repeat these more fundamental or major changes once again so that they are clearly stated and distinguishable?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U35	Alcohol consumption should not be seen as "creative" and "positive" activities. Alcohol advertising should not include animals or humans, even in animated form. There are also limited time limits. Alcohol advertising, for example, has been taken to a later time on television to prevent children from seeing it. After all, we have often observed that alcohol consumption is depicted as a relaxing and pleasant activity: large vineyards, fun attractive women who trample grapes in barrels, foamy spinning beer, etc. This kind of mood-building should be taken out of advertising. It's one of the broadest issues. In addition, the voice of a well-known person or character, mainly a film for children, television, music, entertainment, or a person or person who is known through an event, should not be imitated. These measures are a series of measures. I would recommend that the good questioner look at Amendment 11, where this list is well available.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U36	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U37	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have also been present in these discussions and I am looking at the powers that have been given to the local government. For example, Paragraph 42 (1) states that the municipality has the right to 'limit the retail supply of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the spot throughout the administrative territory or in some of it during the period laid down in Paragraph 56 (2) of the Law Enforcement Act'. There is no mention of catering establishments in this wording. I understand this in such a way that the municipality has the right to restrict the sale of alcohol for consumption in all establishments during the night's rest, i.e. it does not matter whether it is a bar, a restaurant, a casino, a cinema or any other establishment. Let me get this straight, or are we gonna get this over with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U38	Yeah, you get it right. I admit my error in this matter. A good colleague misled me with his question. The answer is that retailing can be restricted in all establishments, including casinos.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U39	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It seems to me that at some point in Estonian society we should reach the point where we can talk about the culture of alcohol consumption. Every time we come into contact with the drafts, we talk about abuses where people have to say 'yes' or 'no'. It was only recently that we talked about the need to limit the availability of alcohol in shops in time. Now, in turn, we are talking about the fact that purchases made at the moment need to be reduced by limiting its'sighting visibility'. But my question is what the owner of the country store has to do. The next time I go to the country store in my neighborhood, he might ask me if the counter behind his back has to get out of there. What solution does the legislator literally see in his case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U41	Each store needs to analyse whether or not it is possible for it to place alcohol as separately as possible. And if that's not possible because of the spatial solution or the size of the room, there's nothing to do. The previous concept of the draft, which had this 450 square meter limit, also provided that small country shops did not really need to undergo major changes. But I absolutely agree with the description in the first part of your question that everything begins with a culture of alcohol consumption. Let us be honest, the culture of alcohol consumption begins with the attitudes that exist in society. And in any case, legislators need to deal with how to shape these attitudes. Let me give you a good example. The same question was raised several times at the Commission meeting. In fact, tobacco consumption in society is a good example. I remember the discussions in this hall when smoking was banned in bars, cafes and catering establishments, what a dispute it was about that the bars, cafes and pubs in Tallinn are now going bankrupt. In reality, when we think about this very long ago and now, there have been major changes in the social attitudes associated with tobacco consumption. The level of tobacco consumption has increased significantly. Also in the culture of alcohol consumption, the same changes that this hall and the political forces have agreed on in this very Green Paper cannot arise differently from the fact that in society there is no alcohol consumption in and there are no anti-alcohol bottles everywhere. It all begins with the formation of attitudes, and this bill certainly serves this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U42	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U43	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I actually agree with the end of your answer to the previous question. If we look back in history, we now have a very active civil society and we appreciate it very much. And the first societies in Estonia were still abstinence societies, which is now more of a word of incrimination. So it needs to be dealt with. In fact, the restrictions have not killed entrepreneurship in our northern neighbours, whom we set an example in many things. But my question is also about the same visibility, so it's either "remarkable" or "unobservable." Our laws are indicative, guiding and policy-making. Was this point also discussed how to check it and whether there will be any sanctions? Well, in that case, there should be some meters. Did this come up during the discussions in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U44	I'm sure he did. It was quite an important part of the whole debate that is the difference between 'visible' and'sensiblely visible'. However, as I pointed out in reply to another question, there is a very large part here of the practice and guidance material that is still being developed, which can be clarified in itself in cooperation with merchants. Laws are not only harsh paragraphs; laws also express established practices and attitudes. In this case, these paragraphs show a certain direction or attitude. Any law-abiding entrepreneur should review his shop with an "analytical look." It is also likely to be possible to do so with controlling officials, for whom the first thing should not be to punish. So all of this should be made clear in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U45	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! When you answered the question of a good colleague, Urmas Kruus, you slightly lowered the meaning of alcohol and the proportion of sales in the country stores. Whether we like it or not, the share of alcohol in the sales turnover of land shops is 15 to 25%, so it would have been reasonable to wait for this meeting on 9 January before this law can be enforced. But my question is driven by the problems of football players. Indeed, one of the additional changes introduced by this law is the extension of the ban on alcohol advertising on TV for an hour, i.e. from the current 9:00 p.m. to 22:00 p.m. As you know, many football friends love Champions League, one of which is Heineken. So there's always a little Heineken commercial at the beginning of this transfer. Are we in danger of losing live broadcasts of Champions League games?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U47	I understand that this draft does not concern these cases, including the example you have given. These transfers have been made according to a different principle; they are not programmes drawn up here. And it will probably not be possible to terminate or cancel these transfers either. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U48	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U49	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, could you please clarify this ad thing the other way around? This list of restrictions is very long, but give a positive example. In that sense, it's positive that what's allowed. I understand the manufacturer's trademark advertising is allowed. And what about the concept of outdoor advertising? Very popular are all kinds of labels at the front doors of bars, umbrellas and similar things. You can probably imagine A.Le Coq, Viru White, whatever. Is it going, or isn't it going under the field commercial?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U50	I think if the store says it's a place to buy Viru White, it's probably not a common definition of alcohol advertising. It's linked to the name of this company. But I can also bring out one very simple paragraph in the law: the information contained in alcohol advertising must be presented in a product-oriented and neutral manner. That is the basic principle, and service is permitted. Basically, as I described here, if there's a bottle of whiskey and there's a glass of whiskey next to it, it's okay. However, it is not allowed to reflect the smell of peat, some smoking North Scottish bourbon houses etc., the work of which leads to the tastes of this whiskey. In short, alcohol advertising must be neutral and product-oriented.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U51	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have referred three or four times to the Green Paper on alcohol policy from 2014 when you answer questions here. My question is why this is exceptionally selective from the Green Paper. That's how I appreciate it. For example, on the issue of price and tax policy, it also states a steady slow increase in excise duty, programmed at 5% a year, but this has not been the case at all. Since this approach has been selective, what is the status of this Green Paper in our policy making?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U53	It would be very easy for me to reply that this issue was not discussed in the Commission and that excise policy is not covered by the Alcohol Act or the Advertising Act. However, the availability of alcohol, advertising and all of this have indeed been addressed in the Green Paper. So this agreed political principle is in any case the basis of this draft. Unfortunately, the rest that you spoke about in your question was not dealt with in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U54	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm a little confused now. There is a certain structure in trade, and one part of the turnover is alcohol, which is particularly relevant to land shops. You can begin to believe that the large merchants have achieved what they have wanted to do, so that the small shops go to jail and their turnover increases. But what really amazes me is how you described it in a very personal way, how alcohol advertising should not offer an experience, and then you spoke with complete calmness about how an international beer producer could advertise the experience with sports games, victories and emotions before the football match. I think that means another blow to our alcohol producers who have to advertise their products behind the black box. Isn't that a two-faced and Phariseeic act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U56	In fact, a distinction has to be made between sponsored advertising and alcohol advertising. There's a difference. In this case, it is a sponsoring advertisement. That's one. Secondly, I didn't understand the meaning of your question when you were talking about preferring large stores to country stores. As I said here in reply to another colleague, the classic country store does not need to make any special transfers within the framework of this law. Alcohol can be sold exactly as it has been, so to speak, with no distinction. Rather, steps must be taken in larger shops with spatial options for containment. So on the contrary, little shops don't have much to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U57	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, as the alcohol damage in Estonia is huge, it is very welcome that alcohol policy is tightening. My question is whether a type of advertising such as product placement was also discussed in the Commission. This means that alcohol and related products play an important role in films or shows. For example, a few years ago, during a master's thesis, alcohol consumption was studied in the latest soaps in Estonia. There are very many of them, there is a favourable atmosphere created and, for example, they drink Saku beer or taste some Estonian vodka. Was that a story?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U59	Undoubtedly, this was a rather brief discussion, but we did not have a very good advertising expert on the spot. It is very difficult to highlight the origin of the advertising of alcohol or some brand in some kind of television series. And the question is also what are the Estonian series and films and what are the western TV series, where in fact, the same goods are often displayed, which are also in our stores. So this is quite a fine art that we did not deal with so precisely in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U60	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm going back to the subject of advertising. I really did read all these points, but my question is still, who is going to check and evaluate, all this advert, in the sense of whether alcohol advertising shapes the mood or creates an appetite. What authority should monitor this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U62	It is the same authorities that have done so so far, because there are certain restrictions on alcohol advertising. This is about the same bodies that show alcohol advertising on TV or make it sound on the radio. First of all, these authorities themselves must monitor this in the context of self-control. But yes, alcohol advertising is still limited, so it is the task of the same institutions that have done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U63	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U64	Thank you. Good waitress! We fought the same bill for a long time in the previous government. Evgeny Ossinovsky came in with a bill where all the thoughtless restrictions were in very harsh shape. We didn't agree with that. Tell me if the current government and the Committee on Economic Affairs have reached the same conclusion that no matter what restrictions can be written in the law. Although, on the one hand, the alcohol policy is being tightened, the original plan is in fact quite relaxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U65	Politics is, as we know, the art of compromises. It was not intended to seek a solution that would be as acceptable as possible to the wide range of players on the one hand and, on the other hand, would still fulfil the objective that had been set for this draft. I don't know what else to say here. There has been quite a lot of talk about the objectives here, and it will certainly help us to get a step closer to them, too, with the implementation of this draft. So the severity or gentleness of such measures is always a matter of consideration. The Commission, together with the initiator, has reached those positions which are reflected in these amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U66	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm gonna go over that advertising thing one more time. I once saw a beautiful billboard on the Grune Wochel Bavarian booth, and I think it's beautiful. There was a father and a daughter in the picture, one drinking beer and the other drinking milk. Both had a bracelet around their mouth: one with foam, the other with milk. I ask that if the owner of a country store, or even of a city store, wishes to have such an alcohol promotion, a mood designer, I do not know how to use it as public advertising material in front of his shop door, whether or not he is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U68	Shouldn't be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U69	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U70	Thank you, good speaker. Good waitress! I'm asking about the local government's ability to limit alcohol consumption. I understand that the city of Tallinn has taken the initiative here and, of course, it will immediately impose this restriction, either only in the Bermuda triangle or throughout the administrative territory. I'll ask what happens on New Year's Eve. After all, this restriction is in the interest of the city of Tallinn itself: at 11 o'clock most people celebrate the adoption of the new year and at 12 o'clock everyone is silent as stockings. Is that the goal? Has this been addressed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U71	The honourable questioner himself has been present at all the meetings of the same Commission as I have. This was not the case. At the same time, I understand your concern about certain times and important dates when alcohol is consumed more widely. This is a clear concern for you as a full-bodied man. But in people's lives, some of the anniversaries are a little out of the law's control, too, one day we'll just have to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U72	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U73	Thank you. Please tell me what the numerical purpose of this bill is! The numerical target of the Green Paper is, as far as I know, 8 liters and no more alcohol per capita. I'm saying it's gonna be full this year. Last year it was very close to eight liters. Without any hysterical efforts, this figure has always been in decline. And I have data that this year's forecast is going to be less than eight liters. I'm very interested in the prognosis. Tell me if you have discussed what actual consumption is and what is now the final goal when 8 liters are full when you set your goals. It probably can't be zero, that is, a ban on alcohol. What task is the bill currently in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U74	In this draft explanatory memorandum, I do not, frankly, pay attention to a very clear numerical objective. However, it has been going through a lot of discussions. The Commission's meetings have also set out the same objective, which you mentioned, so that alcohol consumption can reach this level, as is the case in the Green Paper. That's eight liters, if my memory doesn't fool me, but it's still eight liters. So a one-year-old run doesn't necessarily mean that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U75	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U76	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question relates both to the last question and to the questions asked above and to your answers. I am also personally interested in the impact of this bill on health, on healthy behaviour. You yourself replied by stating in the explanatory memorandum that this would take place in practice. What, then, is the role of the Riigikogu if it has to adopt drafts whose explanatory notes state that the impact will be felt in practice? How serious are we in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U77	Whoa, whoa, I haven't talked about having an effect on health during practice. I have told you, in answering these questions, that the practice and the preparation of guidance material will reveal what 'extremely visible' means in stores when the alcohol is separated. 'Smartly visible' and 'visible' I have said that the content of these concepts is formed in practice. I have never talked about any health effects of alcohol consumption in practice. The fact is that when alcohol advertising is less intrusive, when alcohol is less available and young people's drinking habits change, it also has an impact on health indicators. This was not discussed in the Commission, but in the event of a deeper interest, I suggest that you go to Google and read the words 'Green Paper on Alcohol Policy'. It shows what these goals should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U78	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U79	Thank you! Good waitress! Listening to these answers, I understand that the content of the two new concepts that we want to insert into the law'showfully visible' and'reasonably feasible' is not quite clear to the drafters and the authors of the amendments at the moment either. You just said that what will be the content of the terms will be clarified in practice. Let me get this straight. We're going to bring a new concept first, and then we're going to figure out what that means?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U80	No, you didn't quite get it right. I also said several times, when I answered the previous questions, that the Commission's discussions had a very long discussion on the terms 'visible' and 'visiblely visible'. And actually, in my original presentation, I also mentioned the notional difference between the "visible" and the "obviously visible." Everyone understands that if the term is "extremely visible," this means that steps have been taken to limit and separate something from the rest of the sales hall. What's the difference between "slightly visible" and "visible" is what develops in practice. This is particularly the case for larger shops. The notional limit continues to be 450 square metres in the case of shops with a larger service hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U81	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U82	Thank you. It is clear that the ideology of the initiators of this draft, the ideology of the social democrats, is to govern the state and the people by means of prohibitions and orders. It detests the people, their judgment, and their resistance to all temptations, all must be strictly regulated by law, for you are wiser than the people. But I want to ask if a respected speaker really falls into an alcohol trap when he sees these bottles in a shop somewhere. Do you believe that we in this Chamber and all the other people in this country who pass some shelves in a shop, just go and take this bottle without people being able to decide and act normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U83	Dear questioner, thank you for this very emotional question. It is very simple and easy to answer. First of all, I would like to remind you that the initiators of this draft are not social democrats. The draft is initiated by a coalition with three political parties. That's one. Secondly, this draft is based on the Green Paper on alcohol policy. This is the fifth or sixth time when I say that it is a broader strategic document that shapes the alcohol consumption of Estonian people. It has been developed by a number of organisations: consumer organisations, the Institute of Conjuncture, health organisations, merchants, etc. A consensus was reached in the Ministry of Social Affairs over a three-year period and this is a national strategic document. We are very often accustomed to talking in this Chamber about the fact that development plans and strategies cost nothing, they remain dusty on the shelf, etc. It's different with this document. As a result of a broad debate, steps have been taken and these objectives have been pursued. This was started by the previous or previous government, probably already the previous government. That's one. Secondly, I would advise you to examine the nature of this draft and these long discussions, even through a verbatim, if you are seriously interested in this subject. The Estonian people are not so appreciated, i.e. the Estonian person is not so weak that he immediately takes a bottle off the shelf. That's definitely not what he's like. However, alcoholics are such that if there is a bottle of alcohol in their face, they are ready to grab the bottle. It is precisely on the basis of their habits that certain limits on visibility have been introduced. And these are not some imaginary measures of their own, but are still based on international practice, on the perceptions of others. At the same time, we must admit that there are quite a few people among the Estonian people who suffer from excessive alcohol consumption and problems. This is a fact that no nation-thinking person will possibly fail to think about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U84	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U85	Good manager! Good waitress! My colleague Ligi has already pointed out that one measure of the Green Paper, 8 litres per person of alcohol, has been completed. I come back to my previous question that every draft must contribute to resolving the population crisis. I ask that, if we already have 8 liters, what should be the goal, for example, in five years' time, of several liters per person and of several children, on average, for every woman. And more specifically, what would these two figures have been according to the original version of the draft, and what are they now, in the case of the so-called diluted version, if 16 amendments were also proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U86	First of all, as regards the objectives of this draft and the Green Paper, the Green Paper is a broader document. It is quite a large document, and the only objective that is not recorded is that the consumption of absolute alcohol per person is 8 litres. There are many more goals. It is quite clear that alcohol is certainly not a commodity that would have a positive impact on the health and sustainability of the Estonian people. We still have a long way to go to change the culture and attitudes of alcohol consumption. But the link that you have spoken about here is not set out in the Green Paper, however, about how much alcohol there could be per person and how it affects the number of children. This was not discussed in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U87	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U88	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, There are quite a number of widely interpreted restrictions on the sale, advertising, marketing, etc. of alcohol in this draft. The most vivid example is this's noticeably visible'. How do you predict how much work will come to the Consumer Protection Board, which will have to monitor compliance with these conditions? And how effective will this work be in interpreting these determinations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U89	First of all, the fact that there is a pretty long transition period for'slight visibility': if I remember correctly, this provision will enter into force on 1 January 2019. As we know, there's more than a year left. There is a great deal of work to be done by the Consumer Protection Board, trade organisations and perhaps also the Ministry of Social Affairs in order to give the concept of 'extremely visible' more precise content during discussions. The more preparatory work is done, the less the Consumer Protection Board needs to deal with control and supervision. Everything depends on the activities of the respective authorities in fulfilling the content of these terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U90	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U91	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! I have a question about the control of online advertising. I will take blog environments, for example. For example, the WordPress page comes quite uncontrollable with banners. It reflects advertisements for both alcohol and strange medicines. How do you react to these banners? I've realized that ordinary consumers don't even know how to turn them all off. Will they be instructed? Does the Consumer Protection Board have additional resources to control the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U92	Thank you for your question. That's a good question. This, too, was indeed discussed at the Commission meeting as to the extent to which social media can be controlled. Based on the views of the initiator's representative, it can be said that some kind of attention-management is still possible in social media. For example, even on Facebook, you can point out that certain laws apply in our country, and the company will take appropriate steps. At our committee meeting, it was argued that it would be possible to gain control, to make certain precepts and to hope that they would be complied with. They are also remembered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U93	Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U94	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I still want to knock on Henn Põllea's conscience. We must think about our young people and the survival of the Estonian people. And if you look at this Green Paper, which was created on the basis of the strategy adopted by the World Health Organisation, we too started with certain restrictions in 2002 to reduce health damage. For example, alcohol sales disappeared from stalls, in 2008 the sale of alcohol at night ended, alcohol consumption can no longer be consumed in schools or kindergartens, etc. But did the Commission mention any other measures that the Green Paper still contains? Are there plans to implement them, too, and if so, when? After all, alcohol policy must be consistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U95	The Commission, of course, discussed mainly the issues of the Green Paper, which related precisely to this draft. But since much has been said about this Green Paper here, I would point out that one part of the availability of the same alcohol is the price. This, too, is a topic in our society that is very widely debated: how high excise duties are, what excise policy is, etc. These are also the steps resulting from this Green Paper. We will certainly find other health promotion measures. If we look at what is true, it was not discussed at the Commission meeting on the amount of income tax exemption for entrepreneurs (sport circles, etc.) related to youth activities and health promotion, all of this is part of the agreed policy. These measures, too, can be considered conditionally as part of this Green Paper. But I repeat, this was not discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U96	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U97	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We often take over the good experiences of our neighbours, especially the Nordic countries. We know that specialized liquor stores have been in practice for years in Sweden, Norway and elsewhere. Did the Commission mention that we could not, of course, switch so suddenly to think about it, start preparing laws to switch to specialised liquor shops in larger towns and cities? The grocery stores would then be able to remove alcohol at all and trade it in specialised stores.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U98	Thank you for your question. In the form you presented it here, it was not really discussed. However, there were indeed references to Swedish and Finnish alcohol policy in our committee's discussions. Here a colleague from the Reform Party recalled that there was still a tougher version of this draft in the previous government. Well, he's gotten a little lighter in the discussions now, since this is the understanding of society and the opportunity to agree. That's probably the reason. I am pleased that, as the representative of EKRE, you support a Finnish and Swedish-like alcohol policy. Estonian society is probably not yet ready for such a long step. This is a simple finding, which was also achieved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U99	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U100	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Please tell me how much this issue was being discussed in the Commission from the point of view of the importance for an alcoholic of whether the object in question is visible or noticeably visible. Or is he gonna find that bottle with his eyes closed? Or is it all aimed at shaping young people's attitudes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U101	In fact, however, the initiator's representative also mentioned that in the case of alcoholics, this spontaneous idea of taking one bottle would obviously increase the momentum when the alcohol display is very clearly visible. That was the position of the initiator. On the other hand, of course, this is also important for young people. But above all, alcohol advertising, which has often been popular and youthful in the case of particularly thinner drinks, is important for them. It's like you're a progressive young person when you're using cider at a youth event somewhere. But this reduced availability of alcohol is ultimately in the interests of all members of society: it should not be in front of us at every moment when we go to the store to buy milk and bread.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U102	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U103	Thank you. First of all, thank you for knocking on my conscience, Mrs Heljo Pikhof! But you don't have to do that because I've raised my own children, and none of them have a problem with alcohol. I still maintain the view that society cannot be governed by prohibitions and orders, considering the people foolish and self-impressed. However, I was asked by the honourable speaker's statement, as if the Socats were not behind this draft. Yet, even during the previous government, it came directly from Ossinovsky's pocket. And now you're saying it's the coalition that's behind this bill. So you must be ashamed of what you've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U104	No, the questioner gets it very wrong here. Neither the waitress nor anyone else is ashamed, I'm just being precise. The question is that this political principle is enshrined in the coalition agreement. This political principle was, in one way or another, also included in the agreement of the previous coalition. As we know, coalition agreements are written on the basis of principles, and it is clearly not known at that time which party holds the position of which minister. It is natural that, once agreed in consensual politics, it will be carried out by the Minister of Government, the Minister of the party who is in the process of delivering it in the respective ministry. I would like to remind you once again that the Green Paper on alcohol policy was launched in 2011. If I remember correctly, then this ministry was headed by the current chairman of the Reform Party and a little later, when it was finished, there was the previous president of the Reform Party. The contents of this draft are currently being implemented by the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. So it is very clear that this is a policy with a broad core. And if you read this bill more carefully, there are not so many orders and prohibitions. For once, one ban, one order, one state, this is the principle of another ideology, which is more understandable to you and from which you have now asked. This bill doesn't forbid or forgive, it directs. If it said no and told, it would happen the way it was in the Soviet Union when a health drink was rolled back and forth under the table at the wedding table. Then alcohol was banned, and there is no such situation. This bill is quite softly directed, just as many people have said here, to a different alcohol policy, to the idea that alcohol consumption is unreasonable, it is not reasonable to advertise such a way of life. This is a soft direction, not a ban or an order to understand these accents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U105	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U106	(Something buzzes in the sound system.) I don't want to talk when it's so loud in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U107	Reminds me of the American Voice, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U108	Yeah, it does. I'll try to talk if you give me more after 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U109	I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U110	I also think about their orders and their prohibitions. To be honest, I cannot keep up with you here if you say that this is not an order that alcohol advertising must contain a warning text or that alcohol advertising is prohibited, and then there is a list. If that's a suggestion, then put it in the law: Whoever wants to follow, who doesn't want to follow, doesn't follow. Such a soft suggestion would make more sense. But actually, I have a question about something else. In developing this bill, the original plans were pretty crazy. There's a lot of stupid shit left out now. This bill isn't as stupid as it was at first, but there's still a lot of stupidity here. Didn't you ever get the idea in the Commission that we should cancel this bill at all? In fact, he's already got a lot less than that, but he still hasn't gotten quite reasonable. If we don't go any further on this bill now, maybe someday we'll have a better idea and we'll be able to move forward in life without this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U111	Mr Randpere, if you are going to ask again today, please let me know. So the manager takes a break and we'll fix your microphone so you can use a high-quality microphone to ask. But I'm sure the waitress can answer your question right now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U112	Thank you for your question. I still come back to the fact that there are restrictions on advertising, there are no prohibitions or orders. The ban is when they say that alcohol ads are zero, they are forbidden. It is also a ban if there is no selling alcohol in the country, just as there is in the Islamic countries. It is the task of the state to govern politics and to guide certain habits. That's what this bill does. By banning and ordering it, it will certainly not change the whole society very sharply here. And to think that it is unreasonable to use any kind of restriction or guiding policy for certain addictive substances is not targeted either. The question was whether this bill could not be dealt with at all. I have a very simple answer to this: no, there was no such debate in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U113	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U114	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In fact, I am surprised by my fellow Members' claim that we should not, as if, deal with prohibitions or orders. If we look at the laws in the general plan, we might say that in fact, every law prohibits certain things, provides for certain things, regulates etc., etc. So we do this work every day, all the time, that's our problem. The way we execute all these orders and refuse is another matter. My question, in the light of all these orders and prohibitions, is whether there are any groups in society who are very good at thinking that such draft laws will come to this Riigikogu. For example, social workers have argued that it is very nice that someone is taking the first step towards tightening up alcohol policy. Was there any mention of this in the Commission: have some social groups given positive examples that we are moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U115	Thank you for your question. I also pointed out in my report that not only alcohol producers, distributors and suppliers participated in this public hearing. There were also many representatives of health promotion organisations and the abstinence movement, medical students, etc. around the table. There was still a whole spectrum represented. And indeed there were opinions in the direction you pointed out, and I would say not a little. It is a fact that, in rhetorical planning and discussion, the examples that apply to certain restrictions remain more pronounced. They have played a greater role in reflecting the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U116	Valdo Randpere, who changed seats for technical reasons, now presents his position. Please, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U117	I hope the mic wasn't broken because of me, but because of this place. Looks like this is where it works. I have such a question for the honourable Jaanus Marrand. I have another plea against this bill in itself. I monitor media from other countries, such as Sweden, quite regularly and closely. It is quite surprising to me that in today's Sweden, which is a well-restrictive country with a lot of refusals and orders about alcohol, where there is a national monopoly, Systembolaget, etc., the advertising law is more lenient in terms of alcohol than what we want to introduce. Swedish television already sees more alcohol advertising than we do, and according to this bill, we are not going to see it at all. Doesn't it make sense to yourself that maybe we're going too far? There is no point in introducing a very dry law here in Estonia. We do not, in fact, have a problem with not reducing the concentration of alcohol. It's shrinking pretty fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U118	The Commission did not deal with this draft in such a way that alcohol advertising in Estonia would be more intrusive or more limited than in Sweden, for example. However, it was pointed out in one of the group's discussions that Lithuania, for example, will in the near future stop showing alcohol advertising at all. So different ideas can be found about the countries around us, including the share of alcohol control. If the Swedish state has chosen specialty shops, i.e. imposed a very strict restriction on the availability of alcohol, but promised more ads, Estonia will restrict more ads, but it will be easier to get the alcohol than in Sweden. Different countries have different practices, different paths. But I think that the aim of both countries, and of all civilised cultural countries, could and should be to fight addictive habits rather than to advertise and promote them. In this sense, both countries have chosen the same path.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U119	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U120	Thank you very much. I heard here that there were, in general, a lot of alcohol ads on Swedish television, that is, of course, not true. The truth is, on Saturdays at one o'clock, the liquor stores are closed and closed this weekend: you can't buy alcohol. But I want to ask too. Jaanus Marrandi, if you sum up with one sentence the idea of restricting this ad, what is the most important thing for you personally? What is this message to our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U121	There has been a lot of talk about this message in answering questions here. It is a way of shaping the attitudes of society in such a way that alcohol consumption is not in. It shouldn't be popular or youthful. This should not be part of our lifestyle. In fact, designing such a social attitude is more important than direct restrictions. Such a social attitude is perhaps the most important thing in the whole. And this cannot be done in any other way, it requires legislative guidelines. I have also given an example here that there have been very important changes in tobacco consumption in Estonia. The share of smokers has decreased significantly, and only due to the adoption of legislative amendments restricting smoking in public places: catering establishments, etc. The same way we have to go in the case of alcohol consumption. We're used to watching movies where people smoke in their homes, but there's not a single authority that smokes these days, all the smokers are on the street somewhere. I remember that in this house, for example, it wasn't possible to go to the men's bathroom without you going through the smoking room, maybe you were supposed to be a compulsive smoker. This was an example of another area, but we could also move towards not being such a large part of our society in the case of alcohol consumption. However, the fact is that alcohol consumption associated with certain customs remains to some extent in our lives anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U122	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U123	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I have a relatively neutral relationship with Sweden, but at the request of my benchmate, I want to make such a statement that in Sweden alcohol advertising is still allowed on commercial channels. It is indeed prohibited in public law or in the state channel, whatever is there. That was Mr Randper's explanation for Marianne Mikko's speech. But I also have a question for you, dear waitress. Iceland has very quickly achieved very good results in reducing the consumption of underage alcohol. Are you familiar with this experience? By the way, it was introduced to people who are dealing with a very interesting programme of crime prevention, it is worth getting acquainted with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U124	Thank you! I am pleased that at least 3% of the members of the Riigikogu are working very intensively on Swedish alcohol policy. However, when it comes to positive practices, I think it is important and worthwhile to learn from the practice of other countries. Yes, I have also heard that Iceland has very good examples to give. We may have a similar Nordic mentality (e.g. the effects of cold and dark times), so maybe we can take the same measures when we move young people away from alcohol. If there are good ideas, they can certainly be implemented and highlighted in the next draft procedure. I believe that society is only grateful for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U125	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U126	That's probably the last question. I would like to express my thanks to the Reform Party and, in particular, Urve, who assured us that we could follow suit from other countries where alcohol policy has worked well. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U127	I have stressed here several times that this is, in fact, a widely-agreed policy, the direction of the alcohol policy that we are now moving towards. In developing this, almost all the political groups have spoken and probably agreed to it. Only two smaller groups have not directly participated in the development of this policy and have not assumed the responsibility of the executive. So it is a common policy for all of us, and it must be like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U128	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Please, Heljo Pikhof! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good thought mates! Estonia is among the European averages in terms of alcohol consumption, but the harm caused by alcohol is significantly higher than the average. It is estimated that approximately 11% of men of working age are addicted. 28% of the deaths of men of working age and 12% of the deaths of women of working age are caused by alcohol. The Estonian state, together with 192 countries in the World Health Organisation, has adopted a global strategy to reduce alcohol abuse. We have recognised the principle in this strategy that alcohol policy must be consistent and cross-sectoral. In our own alcohol policy paper, the Green Paper, we have reflected all ten areas in which action is needed to reduce alcohol-related harm. We have made progress in many areas. We have annual campaigns to raise awareness, we consistently introduce early detection of alcohol abuse and counselling at the primary level of health care. Since 2015, we also have a new treatment guide for alcohol abuse disorder, and we are implementing the "Kainem and Healthier Estonia" programme, which invests 10 million euros to improve the quality and availability of addiction treatment. We have increased alcohol duty and fines for misdemeanours committed intoxicated. For some time there was silence in two areas of alcohol policy: advertising and access to alcohol. Today, the Riigikogu is preparing a bill that significantly strengthens the requirements for alcohol advertising, making these ads less attractive. In Estonia, alcohol consumption is restricted and the harm caused by it is tried to be reduced by increasing alcohol excise duty consistently. Alcohol excise duty has increased steadily since 2008, and since 2012 it has been increasing annually. In 2002, the sale of alcohol from kiosk stopped, and in 2008 the sale of alcohol from retail stores throughout Estonia was banned. The consumption of alcohol by minors and the sale of alcohol to them shall be prohibited. The awareness of young people themselves and parents will be raised through various activities, such as the "Smart Parent" information campaign and the "Wonderful Years" programme. In 2008, the Advertising Act entered into force, which imposed restrictions on the content of alcohol advertising and on the possibility of exposure to alcohol. Since 2009, information campaigns have been systematically organised to reduce risk consumption, prevent drunk driving and get drunk. The impact of the current steps is evidenced by the following data: While almost 15 litres of pure alcohol per capita were consumed in 2008, this figure is now a third lower. The impact of some individual steps can also be illustrated by the data. For example, according to the Health Insurance Fund, 48206 people needed help in August 2002, but in September of the same year, when the sale of alcohol in kiosks was banned in Estonia, 2737 people were treated less under emergency care. The loss of damage has also been observed in Estonia due to the time constraints of alcohol sales. In 2007, when the city of Tallinn restricted the sale of night liquor in shops, the number of irregularities related to drinking in public was reduced by one fifth and the number of irregularities related to the consumption of alcohol by minors was reduced by half. The national ban on nocturnal alcohol sales in 2008 reduced the number of irregularities related to the consumption of alcohol by minors across Estonia. The present draft reduces the exposure to alcohol-inclined agents for more vulnerable groups by minors, young people, families with children, people with alcohol dependence or alcohol abuse disorders, whose drinking results in higher than average losses. The major expected impact of the changes concerns minors. Alcohol consumption is the most important risk factor for the development of alcoholism in the age group 10 to 24 years. People who have started regular drinking as teenagers are at greater risk of both risking their health in adulthood and the abuse of alcoholic beverages. Alcohol is directly linked to three more common causes of youth death: road accidents, involuntary injuries and killings. The impact of alcohol advertising on children and young people has been well demonstrated by research. The impact of advertising on the values of young people and therefore on later consumption in adulthood has been demonstrated. The draft amends the advertising law in such a way that only neutral information on the essential characteristics of the product may be provided in alcohol advertising. The aim is to reduce the impact of alcohol advertising on the development of values and social standards common in society, especially among minors. The draft strengthens the retailer's obligation to identify the age of the buyer when selling alcohol and complements the possibilities of appropriate national supervision. To make it harder for minors to access alcohol, the police are allowed to carry out control transactions. According to surveys, young people feel that it is easy to get alcohol despite the ban. As already indicated, studies carried out by the Institute for Health Development through the use of tests show that in most cases sellers do not ask young people for a document for the sale of alcoholic beverages. The same was proved in Tartu by the purchases made by minors during the journalistic experiment in autumn 2015. Nine out of 14 shops sold alcohol to a minor. On the entry into force of the amendment, sellers will be obliged to determine the age of the buyer on the basis of an identity document, unless, of course, the buyer is clearly of age or known to the seller. We know that there is a very strong economic force against this draft. However, we hope that it is the interests of children and young people and the health of the whole public that MEPs have in mind, which, in the long term, is also beneficial in economic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U130	Thank you. Next, please speak to Toomas Kivimägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U131	A very respectable full-bodied President of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! By paraphrasing the classic, it could be said that when the Government of the Republic reached the Riigikogu with an alkoholist bill, alcohol consumption had already decreased. Indeed, it has actually been pointed out repeatedly in this Chamber that it is not some kind of leap in one year, but rather a tendency. While in 2014 an average of 9.3 litres of absolute alcohol per capita was consumed in Estonia, the figure was 8.7 years later, and in 2016 it was already 8.3 litres. As Mr Jürgen Ligi has already pointed out, we are likely to reach 8 litres or a little below this year, in fact, the figure that has been repeatedly mentioned. After all, there is an average of 8 liters of absolute alcohol per capita in the Green Paper. Consequently, it can be concluded that there is no cause for rape. Or another fact. If we look at public opinion I am far from the point of view that alcohol is not a problem. Yeah, it is for certain people. In this sense, a whole series of provisions in this draft are very welcome. For example, banning lifestyle advertising and soft alcohol outdoor advertising makes perfect sense. There are also a number of other measures that must be said to have succeeded in every way. At the same time, we believe that the main focus in alcohol policy should be on minors, smuggling and now the problems relating to Latvia must also be included. These are three components that should be given the most attention in alcohol policy. At the same time, I really share the EKRE values in the sense that we should not take away the right of grown-up people to decide their own actions and their freedoms. I am, of course, pleased that this draft has received a completely different face in the Committee on Economic Affairs compared to what the Government of the Republic presented on 6 February. On the question of whether this is a draft of the Social Democrats, the answer came that this is a draft of the coalition. I would rather say that this is, in fact, the draft of Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. The most controversial of all was the issue of the visibility of alcohol. If the original draft provides that the display of alcohol must not be visible in the sales hall and in shops with a sales area of more than 450 square metres, then a step has now been taken towards mitigation. There is now a formula for 'not to be noticeably visible' in the bill. As a result, the investment that businesses have to make is no longer 10 million which would have been required to comply with the rules of the original draft. This amount is certainly significantly lower. However, I am very disturbed by the extreme uncertainty of some of the provisions of this bill. What does it mean to be noticeably visible? I think that if we had 101 members of the Riigikogu to write an essay on how they understand the word pair 'extremely visible', we could certainly read 101 different concepts. This must not be legislation. Legislation must not be such that today we are raising our hand and approving this draft, and then we will begin to explain what we actually meant by the term 'extremely visible'. That's what bothers me the most. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U132	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U133	It is very positive that we have got a little lighter by restricting visibility. It is positive that the bills will not be EUR 10 million. This, too, is an obvious overexploitation, as if it were a magic wand, with which we are greatly reducing alcohol consumption in Estonia. There is no impact analysis showing how much alcohol consumption will decrease as a result of this measure. None! I think that, rather, the measures I have already referred to have borne fruit. The previous speaker also mentioned the policy of alcohol duty. Indeed, it is one of the tools to reduce alcohol consumption, but to a certain extent. I would argue that by increasing the excise rates of alcohol excessively, we have done a disservice to the people and the country. Despite the fact that the excise duty rate has increased, the tax revenue from alcohol duty is lower than a year ago at the same time as compared to a certain number of months. If the government coalition is saying that the lower receipts are because people have started to consume less because of the higher excise duty, then indeed one could go to Latvia some weekends and see what is actually going on there. People are buying massively, and if someone's already going to Latvia, they're not buying a couple of bottles, they're still buying boxes. This means that the sum of the sum of the amounts we have done ourselves a disservice: people do not consume less and, in addition, the tax revenue does not come into the budget of the Estonian state, the money goes to the state budget of Latvia. In this sense, it is a completely incomprehensible excise policy. It's something to pay attention to, not to rely on forbidding it as a "explorably visible" magic wand. And there's only one more line that's short on time. It was completely incomprehensible why there was a provision in the original draft aimed at restricting the sale of alcohol at airports in the same way. Nowhere else in the world I know it is. Norway is a country with a very conservative alcohol policy. Oslo Gardermoen Airport has all the goods together. This is not a minor economic argument. The non-aviation income also accounts for 61% of the revenue of Tallinn airport, including the rent for liquor stores and other shops. We must not underestimate that. If we draw the border, it will be reflected in our airport charges very quickly if we want to fly somewhere. You can't go overboard and make such changes. Finally, however, I would like to conclude with a positive note. It is reasonable that, as far as this limitation of visibility is concerned, a transitional period has been granted not for a year, as Jaanus Marrandi said, but for a year and a half. The requirement that alcohol must not be noticeably visible applies from 1 June 2019. At the same time, the Traders' Association wanted a three-year transitional period so that it would be reasonable to do so. Once again: restricting alcohol consumption among young people, smuggling and Latvia are issues on which emphasis should be put. It is not reasonable to impose obligations on undertakings without knowing the extent to which they have a positive impact on alcohol consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U134	Erki Savisaar next, please! Also three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Riigikogu! We discussed this draft very long in the Commission. I am not going to address this issue of "visibility and lifestyle" here at the moment, really, you could talk about it endlessly. However, a rather important subject was a limitation based on a certain number of square meters, which eventually went out of the draft as a compromise. And it went out because it found a wording for which there was no technical norm in square meters, but there was a little bit more vague but with the same point. And when we reached this wording, we went through a number of concrete scenarios in the Commission. It is clear to all members of the Committee on Economic Affairs that small country shops must not be subject to any excessive requirements by this law, which could pose a greater risk to them than they are now. In addition, the Traders' Association, in cooperation with the Consumer Protection Board, is willing to put together a handbook of best practice on how alcohol can be sold in different shops. Now specific scenarios. One particular scenario was where alcohol is sold behind the counter. We found together that this is the best way to sell. This is the most restrictive of emotional episodes, since specific alcohol needs to be asked. This is the kind of sale that has alcohol bottles on the counter behind the seller's back. Secondly, we were talking about refrigerators. We discussed that if we generally have refrigerators at the shops by the wall, full of beer, cider, or other lean alcohol, could they be in a small store? We've come to realize that there may be. These doors may be transparent, but it would be better if they were not transparent but neutral. At the same time, we concluded that there is no big problem when the doors are visible, but there must be no lemonade or other non-alcoholic beverages in the same refrigerator. The third issue was whether, in such a small shop, for example, a euro base could lift beers to a shop corner or, if there is no room in the corner, to the centre of the shop. We found that if you can't put it any other way in the store, it makes perfect sense. There must be enough drinks in the store for sale to serve customers all day so that you do not have to close the store with one seller in the meantime in order to bring more goods. Finally, we also came to the conclusion that if the store needs to use all three methods at once to maintain a sufficient margin of sales, then that too is okay. So, in my opinion, this wording protects small country shops well, and they don't have to make any adjustments. As far as larger shops are concerned, the word 'weakening' is extremely important for visibility. We realized that if that word isn't there, then that means that a door should be made in the area where the alcohol is sold. The word "remarkable" means that this finite area does not have to be a doorway area. This may be an open-access area, such as Tallinn Prismades, where some walls have been made around the alcohol area, but there are large openings inside the wall, where you can get in and out and where you can see some alcohol bottles. That's okay. The subject of the walls, however, has never been in the draft. There has always been talk about limiting visibility, and our understanding is that visibility can also be limited by shelves. If the shelves are so crossed that not all gaps are visible at the same time, the visibility is limited enough. So the word that restructuring costs millions isn't right. It simply means crossing one or two counters and it does not require any additional investment. If we now come to the consumption of alcohol in society, the methods used to calculate this percentage are very different. Indeed, one figure is around 8 liters, but the entire population, including infants and other children, has been taken into account. If we only consider adults who actually consume alcohol, according to WHO, this percentage is 9.9 and we still have a very long way to go to 8%. Nor has the alcohol that we are going to export been taken into account, it is purely the consumption of Estonian people. In summary, I believe that this draft law offers a number of additional measures to reduce alcohol consumption and is, overall, a reasonable compromise that takes into account proposals from various stakeholders on the Commission's table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U136	Thank you. Next, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Whenever we do something, we have to ask ourselves what the purpose is. On the one hand, it is as if everyone understands in the same way that we are now talking in this Chamber about the fact that overall alcohol consumption in the country should decrease. One concept is, and this is confirmed by peer reviews, that advertising is a force, that advertising is the root of the evil that attracts us to alcohol. I did not understand, however, the honourable Marrand's talk on the remote, which concerned the distinction between sponsoring advertising and the advertising of the mood and the usual product. Why is a clearly larger output allowed for one advertisement in this light? I am one hundred percent convinced that if young people look at their top athletes' idols and they show a Heineken beer ad, its effect will certainly not be less than the effect of one experience ad. It is a matter of course whether both of these are wise to ban it, that is another question, but I really don't understand that one is made of Goliath and another is made of an angel. If you look at the matter from experts, they claim that with advertising restrictions such as those currently imposed on Estonian producers, advertising will disappear from television and advertising money will disappear from television. Of course, it could be said that we are not interested in the economy, and perhaps the pressure of economic men is particularly high in the world of alcohol. However, I did not think I ever heard it say in this debate how we would increase the volume of reverse advertising. If alcohol advertising is banned, how can it be replaced by healthy lifestyle, healthy product advertising? In fact, it is particularly strange that we do not want to think economically. I suggest that, if we had banned half the volume of alcohol advertising, the other half could have provided, on the basis of a contract, for advertising promoting a healthy lifestyle, for various forms of activity. Advertising could be balanced. But right now, we're just raising that money out of the TV channels, and we think we're going to influence alcohol consumption. As far as young people are concerned, I do not know exactly, but I think the statistics say that getting certain information from television is primary for young people. It's not primary! Their information comes from somewhere else, it comes from the Internet or whatever. None of the presentations were presently heard, which is an alternative to alcohol and whether everything is balanced in terms of public health. Yes, indeed, the alternative to alcohol could be an activity of interest, but in fact we know that it is also a substance of pleasure, both chemical and natural. And that is a topic that is not reflected here absolutely. In my opinion, the coalition should not be ashamed if it wanted to do a harsh alcohol policy. But as we now hear, there is nothing left of the harsh alcohol policy. It was always apologized that somebody else had already started to work out the green book, that we weren't behind it. At the same time, it is certain that the Green Paper, by its very nature, created the basis, but specific decisions are still taken by one or another government or Riigikogu. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U138	Please! Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U139	Now for ban policy. There is an objective here that we want to reduce the availability of alcohol. One thing is that we don't make it visible and physically change sales points. At the same time, there is also the idea in this hall that every country store does not have to sell alcohol to anyone who needs it. It is not considered that there are many other goods that people want to buy at a country store. In fact, it has been the case that alcohol has been brought closer to people than ever before by the current policies. Well, maybe at the end of the Soviet era there was a similar situation. People have started stocking up bottles at home. This, of course, is about South Estonia, where it is not far from Latvia. And if you've noticed this, you've noticed one more thing: these buyers are no longer from the Valga region and from other parts of the border, this trend is becoming more and more common in Central Estonia. Thus, the impact of excise policy will be increased. You all realize that if you have a supply of alcohol at home, there's nothing easier than going to the closet or to the basement and taking the bottle with you. And if anyone claims that this policy has a healthy effect on any Estonian person, it is just nonsense and absolutely cannot be believed. I am convinced that if half of the money that has literally been sent to Latvia had been used for positive propaganda, the long-term effect would have been a hundred times greater than that of the current policy. Inaragi referred to activities of interest and other reasonable activities. Some people have said, by the way, that it is rather strange to watch the Minister speak vigorously about alcohol and tobacco policies in this remote area. Mr Marandi very nicely said that look at how well we have gone with tobacco, the measures have had a big impact. Unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that some ministers have had no effect at all, some also smoke in public places. And then you come and tell the common people that you understand that we want you to take care of your health! We make orders-to-language, but the ministers walk in the public space of the city, with the bushes in their mouths! Congratulations, coalition! What the fuck is this?! That's ridiculous! In the old days, it was called Phariseeism or duality, whatever. I'm not here on the remote to say, "Let's make a crowd sport and drink more! But let's just take the same set goals. As Mr Savisaar said, in fact, this figure is, on average, 10 litres per capita. Honourable Marrand says that this figure is 8 liters. In fact, we have achieved a certain level, and I would argue that this is the result of constant work in shaping attitudes. In doing so, we must not make unreasonable decisions and then try to show that something has been achieved with these unreasonable decisions. I think this insane decision doesn't work the way people get smarter and start drinking less alcohol. There's no such connection as the proposers hope. I think that we must never forget whether one or the other measure is effective when setting targets. Let us always consider reasonable alternatives. If we turn over, as we have done with excise duties, we will achieve that the aim of the Green Paper becomes ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U140	Jaanus Marrandi would like to say a rejoinder to Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U141	Thank you! Since my name was named, I would use my right to a rejoinder. First of all, I would point out that international sporting events are nothing more than the fact that international transfers cannot be prevented and sponsor advertising is allowed there. As far as statistics are concerned, however, it is true that according to Estonian statistics, we drink alcohol on average per capita, i.e. infants included, 8 litres per person. According to WHO estimates, this figure is 9.9 litres, since they account only for adult populations. So we should look at the facts and acknowledge that we have not achieved the objective set out in the Green Paper. And further work is needed to achieve this. As far as the Green Paper is concerned at all, it is the basic document that sets out the basic policy, the basic principles on which the drafts on this issue are drawn up. Regardless of what the Government of the Republic is and who is currently the Minister of Industry, this basic document is a mandatory basis for shaping certain policies into laws. And in this case, it's been done and it's done right. This agreement is exactly what society is prepared for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U142	Now, Jürgen Ligi is expected to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I've often argued against those who say orders-nos don't help, but of course there's a limit to orders-nos. There is also a limit to taxation, especially if the limit does not hold, as we do. The order bans have been crossed. Jaanus, of course, blurred when he claimed that if it was written 'no', it wasn't a ban. Of course, there are bans in many places in this law. This policy of prohibition and command, which sometimes makes sense, has been thoroughly compromised by Evgeny Ossinovski. There's nothing to do. This law has been initiated and discussed several times by the previous government, but the entire initiative is not just a restriction on alcohol consumption, but an obsession with Evgeny Ossinovski ego-trip and political technology. We have already put a border on a number of prohibitions, which is why this ban did not move forward. We have to admit that the Committee on Economic Affairs has done a good job and has prevented a lot of trouble. For example, the restriction imposed at filling stations has not been considered reasonable, as it would have too many negative consequences. The entry into force has also been delayed in order to allow time to react to the new restrictions, there is no longer a six-pack price reduction restriction, which has been a complete nonsense, and the requirements for the presentation of partitions and goods at regular shops and airports have been relaxed. In itself, it is a move towards normalisation. Now, what is the purpose of this law is the right question. Some people have already asked here, and one of them is talking about it right now. It is unwise to set the goal of tightening something indefinitely. We're gonna make a mistake at one point, cross the line, and there's a break. In this case, of course, it is a question of substitute goods and substitute channels. There's gonna be other scum, and the drug's gonna be in place of alcohol. Drugs certainly play a role in reducing the consumption of young people's alcohol. It is likely that attitudes have changed in part, but unfortunately not only. And the result of excessive restrictions is, among other things, economic damage. If the shops are going to close because the turnover is shrinking, it is not a matter of grinning and grinning, which I have noticed very much. It's even thought there's no need for small shops. In fact, the store is often the only economic world on the spot other than cultivated land, as much as there is, and livestock. The question is whether or not people can get the groceries close to their homes. This depends on whether there is sufficient turnover in the shops. It is simply a matter of turnover; it is not a concern that if turnover falls by a percentage, profit will also decrease by a percentage. No, actually, the point is that fixed costs are ticking regardless of turnover, and then variable costs come into play. If there is not enough turnover, both variable and fixed costs cannot be covered. It is simple economics and it must not be underestimated. Whether you have a turnover above the payback point or you go down and close the store. In this sense, the availability of milk and bread also depends on us not making alcohol trade too difficult. But right now we are making the sale of alcohol pointless because, thanks to the smaller excise duty, alcohol is more cheap in Latvia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U144	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U145	However, I think that excise duty is not the only reason. Of course, sales costs, purchasing power and, in fact, tax discipline also play a role. But excise duty still has many times the impact of normal in all of this, and it is a very big economic problem. This could be seriously discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, there is nothing to laugh about. We were seriously discussing what it means to be noticeably visible here. In my opinion, we have the obvious unnoticed fact that the trend in reducing alcohol consumption has been severely questioned by this overemphasis. It was noted that last year the average consumption of the total population was 8.3 litres per person. The prognosis said that this year this figure will fall to 7.5 litres. But I doubt it will be possible if such clear rivers of alcohol flow across the border. Even if the average figure cannot suffer so much, I dare not check these figures or offer them out of my own mind, it is clear that it is the vulnerable groups who go to Latvia. These are people who consume more, who are more price sensitive and who are forced to go there for cheaper stuff. So let's be reasonable! Neither must there be a fake in alcohol policy, and we must not think that we are turning more and more on every law. I think it was Heljo Pikhof who read these historical achievements here. Where else can we go? Will it soon be the case that we ban shops because they have no turnover, and then we ban alcohol completely? There could be a limit to anything. We could simply support the trend of a fall in consumption, which is accompanied by a change in attitudes, the influence of young people and, indeed, the measures we are discussing today. I'm not fighting against these measures, but I'm fighting against the attitude that the tougher, the better. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U146	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a philosophical problem of the relationship between freedom and restrictions, which may also explain why this debate is so long today, with questions and speeches. This is very important on this subject. We've gone too far in some direction. And it is not of little importance that we have now discussed less of the proposed increase in excise duty. These things have gone a little wrong. Of course, the Free Party is not so free that it thinks that alcohol policy must actually be free. But it is not possible to lead a society with restrictions and penalties alone. In this respect, some truths have begun to arrive and this is reflected in the current shape of this draft. All these obligations, which were originally intended for quite small shops, have been removed and are being taken another way. Pretty sensible regulations remain. However, I cannot let go of the much-spoken 'visibility' problem. This term has been introduced into the law as a substitute. Yes, it is certainly a better solution than the initial big investment limit, but I fear that there will be a number of problems with such concepts. One thing is, the interpretation gets pretty complicated. I did not understand in this discussion what would happen in a year and a half and how this concept would be furnished. And the other danger is that the law simply retains one such dead declaratory provision. I would certainly like to address the Green Paper on alcohol policy. In my opinion, this was a sympathetic document in 2014, setting a clear target for reaching out and also showing how to reduce average consumption to 8 litres per capita per year. There are very different provisions. Some provisions or some recommendations are in rather non-categorical form: consider creating partitions in shops, for example. But some things are very specific. In my opinion, the ladder for an increase in excise duty, to be at a reasonable pace and at most 5% per year, is a specific regulation. What has happened in our actual alcohol policy? This particular ladder was discarded, and the effects of budgetary temptations have been directed towards excise rally, with very bad consequences. The measure, written as an option in the Green Paper, was decided by Minister Ossinovski to bring before us a categorical, rigorous measure and it has been realised. Dear Social Democrats, it seems to me that what you have done in your declarative alcohol policy can be classified in a category called following one bad PR book. That we're gonna take some social problem that we all understand is bad, and then we're gonna beat it. That we are the most powerful opponents! But we should have enough experience in life to know that it is not possible to solve such problems in an open society by raising restrictions, bans and taxes alone. And now we have become a gift of the fact that in 2016 the share of alcohol imported from Latvia to Estonia was 4% compared to the volume of legal alcohol sold in Estonia and this year it will grow to 11%. Nor does the partial exclusion of excise increases reduce this; rather, so-called excise trade is expected to increase further. These measures, which we are implementing in our own country, will perhaps be more sensible with this draft, but they will not be very effective. At the same time, alcohol consumption has decreased.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U149	I'm not asking for extra time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U150	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Henn Põlluaasa, I announce that the Central Party Group has proposed to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. It makes sense to vote on this now. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party has proposed to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. We must vote on this proposal. I shall put to the vote the proposal to extend the sitting until 14 p.m. if the agenda is not over earlier. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 6 members of the Riigikogu. We'll work until 2:00 if the agenda isn't over sooner. Hammer strike too, of course! Otherwise, it will not be confirmed. Next is Henn Põljaala. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U151	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today, in this Chamber, there have been a lot of questioners and speakers saying that the time for refusals and orders should be over, that, under the leadership of the state, the people, the society as a whole, the smartest one, belongs to a different society. Estonia should be a Western, democratic, free society where everyone has the right to decide freely on their own behaviour, their own steps. And here, too, we should respect this principle and do everything we can to ensure that it is. Of course, alcoholism is a problem. You can't close your eyes to it and you have to deal with it, but not with a tough hand and essentially with a substitute that doesn't solve the problems. Alcoholism is primarily the result of social problems. To the contrary, alcoholism poses social problems. This is also true, but it is still alcoholic for certain reasons, and these reasons must be addressed, and these problems must be prevented so that such a thing does not arise. In the area of alcohol policy, instead of national regulation and prohibitions, which, unfortunately, we see a great deal and which is included in this draft, the emphasis should be on changing people's consumption patterns and promoting a healthy lifestyle. Unfortunately, we see too little movement in this direction. Young people need to be dealt with, raised and influenced in a reasonable way. Hiding bottles somewhere around the corner creates the opposite reaction to what you want: it creates curiosity, the will to try it. Everything that's forbidden is interesting and good. Construction of partitions, roll-over of shelves, hiding goods out of sight, this is actually an unreasonable substitute. If we look at established trends in Estonia, we will see that the objectives of the 2014 Green Paper have already been almost met. We have an average consumption of about 8 litres per capita. So we can be content with the situation that is now. We do not need new radical languages and orders, there is no need to start repressing anyone. However, there is reason to deal with the impact of the steps preceding this draft, the same excise policy that has made Estonia purely crazy. People are already buying alcohol from all over Estonia in Latvia. Eight large liquor stores have emerged along the Estonian-Latvian border. Five of these are Valkas and nearly 80% of the alcohol purchased is brought to Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U152	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U153	Let's deal with it! Let us deal with the fact that we are lowering it instead of raising the unreasonable excise duty. This will restore a situation where excise duty receipts were significantly higher. But let us specifically talk about this bill! I took a look at the list of people invited by the Commission and also interviewed at the Ministry and expressed their views, and this is the interesting thing that caught my eye. Young Social Democrats and the Estonian LGBT Society, for example, were represented and invited. Interestingly, I did not see the representatives of our abstinence union among those with whom this bill has been discussed. The arduous movement has not died in Estonia; it is entirely there; it exists. But interestingly, their opinion was not asked, even though they are a group that directly deals with alcoholism and its consequences, as well as its prevention and elimination. So the choices to listen to have been rather strange. When I listened to the introductions of the bill, I was also surprised that the Social Democrats were strangely trying to wash their hands of this bill. They are not the reason that Ossinovsky is not out of his pocket or based on his ideas. It's all about the government. It's all about the coalition agreement. But where did it come from in that coalition treaty? It just came from the Sats! Why are you spinning? Why are you lying? And why don't you just say that you're doing a pointless substitution? Your goal is clear: to enclose Estonian society into a network of totalitarian prohibitions and orders so that people cannot decide for themselves. It's like people are stupid, indecisive, involuntary, etc. Such ideological trends of the sots are very regrettable and we are colliding with them at every step of the way. In the end, it is extremely unpleasant because you deny people's free will, human wisdom, judgment... Unfortunately, my thought was lost, and time has come to an end. I hope you can't handle such stupidity. But I thank all those who have proposed improvements, because the draft is still much better than the original one. However, we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U154	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U155	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! I will pick up where my colleague has just finished. Good Henn, I'm telling you, there was one abstinence movement representative, I don't remember exactly who he was representing, but it was a surprise for me when he was proud to tell me that being 42 years old, he's been sober for 42 years. Very relevant! It's been said that alcoholics find it extremely difficult to resist when they see a bottle of vodka somewhere. Oh, they're going through it! I'm telling you the truth, I haven't had an abortion in 50 years, but I could still talk at some conference about the complications of abortion. But that's it. A good colleague here used the word 'like' five times. When I was communicating online with young people, young people did not understand what kind of alcohol we were talking about in the Green Paper. My simple suggestion would be to forbid it. Because young people asked me what it was like for alcohol to have a green policy book. Is that where you do these laws, drunk, and what have you been looking for in the Riigikogu, Kruusmäe? I said, luckily, there are other men here who don't drink, and that the laws we make here are sober. However, I do not believe that our results are such as to make it possible to assess that we have done all the laws soberly. We are talking here about the culture and attitudes of alcohol consumption in society. The situation is that we prefer alcoholic beverages to non-alcoholic beverages. A few examples. You can go to a store in hot weather and have cold cider and beer to cool yourself, but you cannot have cold, nonalcoholic cider or nonalcoholic beer. Moreover, a number of supermarket chains have reported that they do not sell alcohol - free beer and alcohol - free cider and energy drink to under 18 - year - olds. So I don't have the chance to tell my 16-year-old daughter that it's okay to buy me an energy drink or a non-alcoholic beer, I'm 50 years old and I decide what I drink. No, it's up to the store. 16-year-olds may choose a local government body, but they may not buy alcohol-free beer. Where is this devil hidden? How do merchants do shopping for us? I was in Poland, and I wanted to buy non-alcoholic beer, and I was offered 3.4% beer. According to their understanding, beer is 8% and 3.4% is alcohol-free beer. I and many others are forced by circumstances to drink 0% beer. For us, the choice isn't that I'm gonna have a cold, lean cider or a lean beer. Some attitudes and a culture of alcohol consumption among young people are being shaped, but the attitude is being shaped that they are total freaks who drink nonalcoholic beer. I've heard from a lot of guys outside this hall that, no, no, no, no, alcohol-free beer, is the next step a rubber woman?! I haven't tried, gentlemen, but maybe somebody can describe what this rubber woman is like. I can tell you what a good cold nonalcoholic beer is. Another thing I want to mention in this remote control is that gas stations could also sell alcohol-free beer. A driver should not necessarily drink water. The receptions could also offer alcohol - free drinks, not recommend that you take water from the tap. But this is our present culture. It was extremely bad to listen when my colleague Urmas Kruuse spoke about the poisons of the mind. It's the mind poisons I want to talk about, too, when I get three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U156	If that's what you want, you have to have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U157	Yes, I have such a strong desire and will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U158	Then please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U159	In Norway, where alcohol policy has become so conservative that the price of beer has risen to quite high levels, the trend is now that young people are actually consuming mental poisons. It's more affordable and it's more accessible. Smart learns from the mistakes of others. Stupid never learns. I hope we take that into account. We have the warning signs. I want to put it to you that, if there is such a tendency in Norway, we should think carefully about what the alternative we offer to young people and other people is. It was, of course, nice to hear everyone talk about me and many of my friends having a very big problem when we see alcohol bottles, alcohol ads and whatever at the store. I'll tell you the truth: an alcoholic doesn't just hang out between his pantyhose and his toothbrushes, and he doesn't just hang out and chill out until he sees that the vodka is on the market, he's gonna start moving like a zombie that way. When an alcoholic goes to the store to buy vodka, he goes to the store to buy vodka, and he doesn't care about gumdrops or toilet paper that is clearly visible. And when an alcoholic goes out to buy toothpaste and he doesn't have any money for vodka, he only buys toothpaste. Vodka can be visible or noticeably visible, drunk people sometimes do not even notice what is very well seen, and run head to head against the wall. We're talking about a society with 30 students in class, and they all see each other every day, but nobody notices that there are big problems in some young families. It is as simple as that: we notice what we want to see. I see some colleagues here, but I don't see him. He's not really visible sometimes. It's a question. In general, I'm assuming the inspectors don't go shopping to break hair. Perhaps this bill, when it becomes a law, will still shape the right culture of alcohol consumption in young people and the desired attitudes in society as intended. So, merchants, understand that alcohol-free beer and non-alcoholic cider are not Satan! Allow them to drink cool and the same energy drink! Yes, I know that the Social Affairs Committee has received a proposal from the youth of the Centre Party that it should be banned from being sold to under 16-year-olds. Even if it's passed as a law, can my 16-year-old daughter buy me an energy drink? What do we do?! What do we do?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U160	We missed 26 seconds. Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U161	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is sensitive, and although we are talking about the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, alcohol policy has mostly been talked about here and I am not going to limit myself to the advertising law alone. First of all, I thought I'd do it again, and the best way to do it is to do it with a classic. I quote the second part of Anton Hansen Tammsaare 'Truth and Justice'. Wolverine Tiit tells him about vodka and beer coming from town to visit Indrek. And this is what Wolves Tiit says: "I can't stand fear, for yet I want to drink the beer even during the holidays, and when I come from the table church, I want to make a good booze on the watery heart, and I can't live without it. " Today, the Wolfman Tiit cannot be quoted as an opponent of alcohol policy. The reason is simple: figuratively speaking, alcohol policy does not try to limit the habits of people like Wolfepalu Tiidu. After the day's work, they want to get a sip stronger and then start reading about Postman. Older men do that from time to time. However, alcohol policy is slow to move towards less Valu Pearus, who, when he comes from the tavern, drives the gate to pieces and whose wife has accepted constant beatings. That is the goal we are pursuing. And when Valu comes home from Pearu's tavern, he'll have bottles on the counter that he'll take with him. Once again, one of the ideas of today's draft is that alcohol does not get in our way at the store and that we achieve a general effect. To this end, other measures, such as the promotion of recreational activities, must, of course, also be dealt with. For example, a year and a half ago, 17.02.2016 the actor and local politician Merle Jääger wrote a very interesting article in Postimees entitled 'Holding Parents, Let's introduce drunken ethics to children'. I recommend! In many places, there has been talk about what else we are striving for. I think it was yesterday when one news report announced that Estonian families spend most on alcohol in the European Union. It shows that we have somewhere to go. At the same time, we also have certain things to show for ourselves. In 10 months of this year, we have 52 fewer alcohol deaths than last year, 20% fewer alcohol-drinking crimes, 40 fewer people have been injured because of drunk drivers. This has been achieved in one year, and that is something! Now that I'm trying to generalise the issue of alcohol and find solutions, I think it's a place to talk about generosity. Yes, alcohol policy requires generosity from producers to keep in mind the principles of the Green Paper on alcohol policy. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U162	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U163	Alcohol policy requires generosity from the opposition so that they do not merely emphasise the problem of border trade, but compare the health indicators of Estonia and Latvia before criticism. This requires responsibility from the coalition, because it would be easy to blame the opposition for not caring about lives lost in a literal or spiritual sense on the basis of health indicators. This requires generosity from the media, because there is no doubt that the reduction in alcohol advertising in media publications will lead to reduced incomes. This actually requires the whole of the country, and we are all part of our country's humility to recognise other countries where things are actually better. An example of Iceland went through the round of questions and answers. I've been on the middle street of Reykjavik on Saturday night in the 1990s. Now I know these things have gotten a lot better there. It was said here that people are smart, control themselves, control themselves. On that point, I want to quote another classic. I'm sure each of us has a friend whose life has gone on in the same depressing scenario as a drunk in Saint-Exupéry's Little Prince. I'll read it to you: 'Why are you drinking? ' asked the little prince. 'To forget,' answered the drunk. 'Forgetting what? "a pretty little prince who already felt sorry for him. 'To forget his shame,' confessed the drunk and let his head go. 'What kind of shame? ' researched a little prince who wanted to help him. 'Shame to drink,' answered the drunk and finally closed to silence. '' Ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us is a small piece of the whole that strives for fewer of the stories described in Estonia. It is therefore reasonable to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U164	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U165	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We've all seen a lot of Hollywood movies where, among other things, there's an anonymous alcoholic meeting, and there's a person who says my name is whatever Jaanus is and I'm a drunk. And this is my first step on the road to recovery. At a meeting like this, I should be honest with you that my name is Valdo, and I don't drink alcohol. I've almost never taken it much, I've been taken a little while in college, but as long as I remember myself, I've still been a sober driver in the company, and I have no conscience pain or anything like that. But I have experienced that there will be no embarrassing moment in Estonia not because you accept glass and drink it empty, but when you say thank you, I do not drink. Then people start speculating about whether you're sick or you're an ex-drinker. I, too, have drunk a glass a few times just to avoid rumors that I have an ampoule on my feet or that I have a stomach or a liver sick, whatever. There's nothing wrong with me. I just don't drink. And why am I not drinking? I think the one and very big reason is that I never saw my mother or my father drunk. Never! My children have never seen me or my mother drunk. And I think that's where it starts. Alcohol consumption and growing in this direction begins at home. It does not begin with any of the Riigikogu's orders-prohibitions, huge rain and brutality. It starts at home, it starts at home, it starts at home, it starts with our own example, it starts with someone doesn't want to drink, we don't ask him why you don't drink, you have stomach or liver disease. In the round of questions, I gave an example of Swedish television, where today more alcohol advertising is seen than on Estonian television. After the adoption of this law, Sweden will certainly have significantly more of this advertising than Estonia. But yes, in private channels. There are two public channels in Sweden, they do not show, maybe show in the same way as the ERR shows the sponsor ad. But I watch these ads when there's a movie. During the movie break, there's a message that Johnny, who wants to remain anonymous, is behind this movie. Black Label, I'm watching this commercial and I think it's pretty nicely done commercial, and it doesn't make me drink. I now wonder what it is when a person who drinks a little bit, a normal Estonian man, an Estonian man, if you want to watch this film without advertising. Does he drink? He's probably drinking. Because in every decent Estonian household, alcohol has been brought from Latvia in deposits, and there is no need to go far after it. You need to stretch out your hand, and you've got it there. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U166	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U167	But it's not really what I wanted to talk about. I actually wanted to talk about the fact that in our politics, there have been such twitches over a longer or shorter period of time where we have gone from one extreme to another. We all remember that once Res Publica dragged a huge hurrah from the Riigikogu through the law banning election ads. A few years went by, and eventually the free parties even went to the Supreme Court with it, and during the last election campaign I saw that the representatives of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union were also happily driving around in cars that had their name written on them. And now we are already talking about the fact that the restriction on election advertising should be lifted, but that we could have prevented it from ever becoming a pagan, that is too little we are talking about. But here's a nice example of the same bill. February 4th, 2016 was a great day. And not only because it was my birthday, but I've already had several of them, but also because on that day, the next news came from the government press conference in Delfi. I read: 'The Ministry of Justice, headed by Minister Urmas Reinsalu of the IRL, has failed to coordinate the so-called 'Alcolaw' draft. According to Reinsalu, his aim is not to blow up the war against alcohol by Evgeny Ossinovsky. On the statement made at the press conference of this government, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski and Reinsalu's party partner, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, laughed. The main theme of the press conference was the body language of two ministers, Reinsalu and Ossinovski: one another's speech was poisonously; Marko Pomerants made sharp remarks; Ossinovski repeatedly shook Reinsalu's head on another avalanche of words; Reinsalu, in turn, had something to say to all of Ossinovsky's comments. ' 'No! ' was mostly what he said. It has not been for less than two years. I know IRL politicians are one of the most flexible people with spines at all, but this flexibility... Honestly, I don't know where they're standing. I would not be surprised if they were somewhere between themselves to measure, who voted, who supported this draft and who did not support it. I want to call on us to be modest. Instead of hitting the pendulum from corner to corner, all of this is banned and then, in a few years' time, come back with the notion that it is unconstitutional and restricting our rights maybe to take it at a calm pace and deal with what I was talking about at the beginning. If children don't see their parents drinking and if mothers and fathers don't ask each other, "Hey, why don't you drink? ', then maybe it helps more than banning some kind of advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U168	Laine Randjärv, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U169	Good manager! Dear colleagues! I had no intention of coming here to talk, but listening to all these speeches from one extreme to another, I thought I would also talk about a couple of points relating to this subject. First of all, I would like to point out that the forbidden fruit is very sweet. I think there's a lot of people sitting in this hall who have a specific experience of the 1985 ban on alcohol. Some people, who have now come up with the wording of the current laws, must have just been born. In this sense, young people may be forgiven for their blue-eyes because they lack life experience; for example, they have not sat at a meeting of the abstinence society, where a coffee cup was offered or poured into a glass under the name of walrus. All the regulations that set limits create a much greater appetite. But the older coalition ambassadors who are cheering with the Minister of Social Affairs today could admit that they remember the interesting adventures that accompanied weddings and anniversaries in the 1980s. I have one memory of my being mayor when the city of Tartu was tried to sit on the bench for not submitting to the Order of the Southern Prefecture on the day of our volbrian night, or 30 April, to ban the sale of alcohol in Tartu on that day. I was then with the Chairman of the Council at the time, who, by the way, is currently part of the coalition ambassadors, agreeing that this ban would be foolish and would make young people buy large amounts of alcohol last day. We went against the Southern Precinct at the time. And I am proud that there were no accidents in Tartu due to excess alcohol that day. At the same time, it is known that in Finland, our so-called sister country, there have been major bans and restrictions on the sale of alcohol at petrol stations, for example, for many years, only lean beer is sold, but what is happening on that Volbrian night is scary. There are bodies and other accidents caused by drunkenness. So the more you ban, the more you prepare yourself for some sort of event: more is bought than you really need. And if that stuff's in your corner, you're gonna have to drink it. I'm not calling on anyone to drink insanely. I call for a rational approach to drinking alcohol, even since I was in school. How can you use alcohol wisely so that it does not cause accidents or health problems for yourself or your family? I totally agree with Valdo Randpere, who confirmed that everything starts from home and childhood. We cannot actually reduce the number of traffic accidents with the proposed restriction. Yeah, it's harder for a person to get ahold of alcohol, but if he really wants to, he'll still find a way to buy it and drink it. Or if his principles are that he doesn't care about the life of another person, the restrictions that we are talking about will not help. Helps with upbringing and helps with teaching you how to drink right: how to drink so that you can keep the limit. Any absolute ban will give rise to a counter-reaction. And this wisdom does not come from the previous or the previous century; it is tens of thousands of years old. My proposal is that, in order to achieve good results, there is no need to cross every thing red. You have to talk to your children, teach and train them in a healthy spirit, so that they do not reach out for this forbidden apple even more impatiently than it would otherwise be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U170	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U171	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject is extremely topical, and it could be said that even more than topical, this is undoubtedly very important from the point of view of society's health. I am 68 years old and have lived a long, varied life of adventure, 22 years of which passed as a musician. One of my colleagues at the time, and one of my fellow parties today, loved to say that alcoholism is a serious disease, which, fortunately, is going to be fun. I can therefore say that unlike many wise guys, I know what I'm talking about. I know how dangerous a friend is alcohol. I know how many reasons people have to drink. This is an extremely difficult problem, and if someone imagines that it is possible to regulate all this with some directives and drafts, it is a very serious mistake. And if anyone tries to talk so stupid about this remote, that banning our party is particularly close to their heart, it's completely wrong. We don't want to ban anything. If anyone wants to talk about us wanting to lock up some theater, that's a lie. We have said that this theatre, like many other theaters, should not receive money from the state. We're not talking about shutting anything down, fellas! So choose your words and think! Turn on the thinking machine before you start talking! That's my very strong recommendation to all the MPs. Now for alcoholism and a specific bill. A specific draft, I would say, is a step in the right direction, but a half step, maybe a rooster step. Alongside this step, there should be other steps, which would be reflected, among other things, in the state budget. And from the state budget, instead of all the LGBTs and human rights associations, which are not really human rights protection, but some kind of society muzzles, banning and tying organisations, could finance, on a much larger scale, the circles of interest. The Centre Party claims that in Tallinn, for example, all children can go to free circles of interest. That's a lie! They're not getting anything! They can go in free circles in their schools, where they have still been free. But they can't go to Kullo, for example, and any other private interest centres where children are provided with recreational education. We won't find money for that, but we will, of course, find money for the ban. Let's deal with the kids! We're dealing with young women! Let's not teach young women to drink, and let's end the stupid campaigning activities this bill offers! There is no point in supporting such a campaign proposal. Every sane person realizes that this is a step in the right direction, but this step ends with tripping and falling because it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U172	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. There was no plan to come here, but still a few words. First of all, I recall the guideline in the preamble to the current Coalition Treaty that any draft law must contribute to resolving the population crisis and curbing emigration. My question now is this: how does Bill 381 do it? What am I reading? Alcohol must be stored separately in the store. Excellent! Secondly, alcohol must not be noticeably visible. On the one hand, the drink must not be noticeably visible and, on the other hand, the presentation of the drink that beautiful girls do in shopping centres. In short, it is permissible to be visible, but it must not be noticeably visible. And the third measure I read from there: on a ship and at an airport, it is not all valid. Second reality! Someday my distant ancestor, Villem Ernits, was involved in the fight against alcohol. Once upon a time, Mikhail Gorbachev dealt with it in the country where we lived back then. What was the result of this campaign? Mortality decreased: 1.6 million Russians died less alcohol and more children began to be born. When I asked my colleague Marrant how this bill would increase the birth rate, he could not answer. Mikhail Gorbachev has said that the birth rate increased. Shops were shut down especially in Moscow at the time, sugar disappeared because they started making sweaters, and some shops were only open from 2:00 to 4:00 because they had a drink. What did Gorbachev say was enlightening afterwards? That they actually made a lot of mistakes back then. The main lesson, however, was that this activity should not have been campaigning but long-term. What is the state of Estonia now? I went to Latvia this weekend. What do you think? At 8:00 a.m., Alko 1000 was already full of Estonians. The conclusion is the same as everyone knows: in fact, the large quantities of alcohol in people's homes are no longer only in South Estonia, not only in Valgamaa and Tartu County, but the border is already approaching Harjumaa. This is the result of this policy. What about this bill? I think this is a step in the right direction. And compared to what was originally written, he has improved considerably thanks to the 16 proposed improvements. But I come back to the beginning of my story and I refer once again to the preamble to the Coalition Treaty, which states that every bill must contribute to resolving the population crisis and inhibiting emigration. But the gauges involved aren't, what do we measure it with? There's just some sort of feeling that things are gonna get better. There are no metrics that say how many liters of alcohol per face, for example, in five years' time is our goal. We talked about the Green Paper. We've already got a target of eight liters. Nor is there a measure that says how many more children should be born in five or ten years' time under the influence of this bill, how many children should average a woman of childbearing age and how many people will not go abroad. But briefly, I think this is the right thing. However, by referring once again to Mr Gorbachev, I stress that these objectives are not achieved in the form of campaigns; they should be pursued for a long time. And at the same time, we should try to figure out the metrics with which real results can be measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U174	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U175	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I must also say that when this draft came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, many people did not like it. But I assure you that the Committee on Economic Affairs, along with many other interested parties, has tried to make the draft as good as possible. Is everything that's left in this bill, everyone likes, of course, a question of their own. But one goal is for all of us. Alcohol consumption isn't positive from the end. A moderate amount of wine with food is not the worst, some say it is very good for health. I don't know, we don't use it in our home. I also have to admit that I have never been across the border to buy alcohol. But maybe one time you need to go when there's a bigger event, who knows. We make decisions here, and every decision needs to look at the wider picture. So far, we have tried to take global trends into account with our country. We will see how something is done elsewhere in Europe and around the world, how it is done. You see, the trend of the second half of this year around the world is that, even with the new President of the United States, we are beginning to see a wave of protectionism emerge, or the protection of the internal market translated into Estonian. If we are to adopt some laws, we need to see how this affects our business and not only big business, but also small business, because this is the most important thing in the survival of our Estonian state and our economy. Let us be honest: it is just a little smarter and bolder people who are going to do business. This is a risk and this risk dares to take about 5% of the population in Estonia and around the world, not more. And if we do everything by law to shut down the shop and become a regular employee, we will lose a lot in our economy. We lose people who dare to risk and try to help develop the Estonian economy. When this bill came to our committee, we saw that this risk was very high. The small merchants' association was on their hind legs, not to mention large merchants, alcohol producers, and advertising companies. But I am most concerned about the survival of entrepreneurship. I hope that, for all the laws that we accept in this Chamber by imposing commands and prohibitions, we will take into account entrepreneurs and the people of Estonia at all. If we count these two sides, then, I think, the laws adopted are good. If we forget this, we can create a situation that has prevailed in recent decades: many have left this place, and it is those who want to do something. Bans and orders don't always help. But I want to congratulate the Economic Commission. When this bill came to us, there were four topics that even screamed. One thing I would like to suggest that all the chairmen of the Commission bear in mind: we often have drafts that have been lacking in analysis. For example, the Finnish Parliament has carried out all kinds of research when introducing alcohol law. We got one thing right away, it touched on the price of beer for six-pack and one jar or bottle. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U176	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U177	Finland's example showed that after the introduction of a new regulation, sales of beer increased several times. And the hat off in front of the Ministry: five minutes after we sent this analysis from Finland to the Ministry, the subject was taken off. The advertising law became more or less what seemed reasonable to all parties. The last topic that was dissected in the Commission until the last night and a little later were the walls. I'm looking at Sven here and thank him for fighting until the last minute and for finally finding a compromise. When we sent the found solution to the owners of the shops, we received the answer that this compromise might solve the problem somehow. At the same time, we all still have a question of what it means to be 'extremely visible'. Thank God it's unwritten in this law. The way it is now is that the merchant says it means it, and consumer protection thinks it does. The dispute remains, but it gives the company the chance to survive, and the costs, which at first seemed to be inevitable, are missed by shopkeepers. I believe that, as a team, we can make good improvements in all the drafts here in the Riigikogu and ensure that the impact of laws is positive both for Estonian entrepreneurs and for all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U178	There are no more requests for words, which means that we can go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. The third amendment is Mr Ammas, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. The fourth amendment is made by Ms Ivanova, Mr Novikov and Mr Repinski, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The fifth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party and was not taken into account by the commission and, unfortunately, the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 6, the lead committee has taken full account of this. The seventh amendment, the lead committee, has taken full account of it. The eighth amendment, the lead committee, has taken full account of it. The ninth amendment, the lead committee, has taken full account of it. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission has ignored it. Amendment 11, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 12, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 13, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 14, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 15, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 16, the lead committee has taken full account of this. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 381. Henn Põllamaas, please! Is the proposal for the next item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U179	About this item. I propose that the reading of the draft be suspended before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U180	Will you bring it to us in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U181	I'm sorry if I didn't press the button in time! Today's debate in this Chamber has clearly highlighted the shortcomings of this draft, as well as the fact that we are actually moving towards a society of prohibitions and orders by adopting it, which we condemn as a democratic state. Therefore, the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 381 amending the Law on Alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U182	Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that if you have a desire to come to the remote, you have to press the "Speech" button. The Word button gives the right to speak locally. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U183	Does it comply with the procedure for holding sittings that the proposal to suspend the reading of the draft was made after the amendments were discussed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U184	We're about to look up the Home and Working Procedures Act, but basically we can propose an interruption until the second reading is completed. But we're gonna check it out right now. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U185	Before the vote, I ask for ten minutes of recess!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U186	We're about to check on Kersti Sarapuu. Yes, § 107 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures does not say in itself when the proposal to interrupt must come. It can also be voted on after the amendments have been examined. So this is the right time, and when this proposal came, we have to vote on it. The Social Democratic Party Group wanted a break before ten minutes. Heljo Pikhof, do you still want a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U187	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U188	Okay, intermission ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important action ahead of us that needs your attention. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of Bill 381 of the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. Henn, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U190	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U191	Then today's trial will be adjourned. But they've already taken the break. Henn, you've already taken the break! You got to think, you had ten minutes to think. So now we can still go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I would like to remind you once again that the EKRE Group has proposed to interrupt the second reading of draft 381. Please take a stand and vote. There were 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal to interrupt, against 42 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 381 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U192	The fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like to present the chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U193	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I've had the pleasure of watching the big orators for over two hours, and I can therefore say that the most anticipated bill of the year is coming before you. The main objective of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is to bring the Aviation Act into line with the Commission Regulation laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures relating to aviation activities. The draft regulates both commercial and non-commercial aviation activities. If the scope of the relevant basic Regulation of the European Union applies only to aircraft of the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), the draft also provides for a national regulation applicable to non-EASA aircraft. There is no regulation at European Union level for non-EASA aircraft, so the Member States will have to introduce it on their own national level. The draft also brings aviation law into line with the Commission Regulation laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures relating to civil aviation aircrew. In addition to bringing it into line with European Union law, the draft aims to ensure that the non-compliance identified in the standardisation audit carried out by the EASA in autumn 2015 is addressed and to clarify the requirements under European Union law concerning the activities of aero-medical centres and aero-medical examiners. Currently, there are no national requirements for the certification of aero-medical centres and for the certification of AMEs that specify European Union law. There are also national requirements for the medical fitness of aviation professionals which do not fully comply with the applicable European Union requirements. This creates confusion for both aero-medical examiners and aero-medical specialists. The draft removes inconsistencies and introduces a national procedure for the recognition of aero-medical centres and aero-medical examiners. As regards the introduction of new licensing obligations under the EU Regulation, the Aviation Act will also complement the State Fees Act with new fees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U194	Since the Minister was very busy, we have two more minutes to answer the questions. There are no questions. Thank you. The presentation of the Commission is made by Jaanus Marrand, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U195	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft on 20 November, including. Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kertu Martshenkav, expert at MKM aviation service, Mari Reinfeldt, Legal Adviser at the Authority, and Karl Rattassep, Senior Inspector at the Aviation Operations Department of the Authority were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Minister Kadri Simson has already introduced the contents of the draft, I would not repeat that. I'm just giving you a little insight into the reasoning. There were a few questions. One question was what non-compliances were identified during the standardisation audit carried out by the Authority. Kertu Martchenkov replied that the draft law included deadlines for the procedure for the certification of the AeMC. The new law specifies the rights of aero-medical examiners and aero-medical centres. In practice, EU law has been used, but there are shortcomings in the Code. My colleague Erki Savisaar stated that the aviation law had been amended a lot and asked when a new full text could come, a new law. Kertu Martchenkov explained that the drafting of a new text was not started because of a lack of resources, but that it was a desire to do so as soon as possible. This was a very brief discussion. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 12 December, i.e. today (consensus), that the first reading be closed (consensus), and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 28 December 2017 at 17.00. This decision was also adopted by consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-12_U196	Good Jaak Madison! The hours we've been given today will be over in five seconds. So there's nothing to do. Tomorrow at 14 o'clock, you will have to press the "Question" button again or the "Word" button and Jaanus Marrand will return to the remote control. So we are in the middle of this debate on this item today. I'll see you tomorrow at 1:00 at Question Time. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
