ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Have a good week at work. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the VI plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, I am pleased to submit to the procedure a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. The reason is the resignation of my colleague Andrei Novikov from the Riigikogu and the proposal of the Centre Party Group to appoint Tiit Terik as a member of the delegation instead of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U3	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U4	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Worshiping in front of the President, but not only, I shall submit a draft law amending the Income Tax Act on behalf of the Reform Party, which aims to protect pensioners, excluding any reduction or withdrawal of the tax-free minimum applicable to them. The state has made a far-reaching promise that it will favour the work of pensioners. It has also made a commitment on how savings pensions are taxed. Because of this monster, which is called the EUR 500 tax-free minimum, which is actually received by a small minority in households, we are in a situation where the biggest losers may be employed pensioners, or even pensioners who simply earn income elsewhere. This promise, which has been made for decades, that, people, join the second pillar or contribute to the third pillar, the country now violates the tax-free minimum by taking away the opportunity. In essence, it increases the tax burden on pensions. Our technical solution is that the money and pensions of pension pillars in general must be excluded from the calculation of the tax-free minimum. In that case, the state will keep its promises, and this solution should also bear in mind the need for people to work longer and save long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U5	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will address the inquiry to the Minister of Culture. The inquiry concerns the Narva Museum. The Narva Museum is an excellent institution that is very important to all of us. The current government has adopted a new Ida-Virumaa Action Programme, in which culture is maintained, developed, and cultural heritage preserved. All the more reason we want to ask the Minister of Culture what he sees as the situation that has now developed around the SA Narva Museum. One of the founders of the foundation is known to be the state and the state has fulfilled its obligations to the foundation very well. However, the foundation established in 2012 also has a second founder. This is the city of Narva, which has not properly implemented the financing agreed in the decision. We have five questions and the Minister of Culture has the opportunity to answer what the country has done to force the other side to fulfil its obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U7	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U8	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! People's ambassadors Adams, Herkel, Talvik, Aru and Haukanõm have drawn up a draft law amending the Riigikogu Election Act. It's done quickly, but I think it's an urgent bill. Dear Jüri Adams is its main compiler. Our wish is that the election of the Riigikogu is based on the general principle of electoral circles, not on the fact that they are all mentioned in the law as it is so far. The subject is, of course, topical and we would like a general principle to be established, according to which there are at least eight mandates in circles and no more than 13. The size of the constituencies could also play a role within this range. In particular, we believe that the State Chancellery, which has heard the opinion of the Election Committee of the Republic, could be formed by the electoral district no later than a week after the election was announced. We all know that the borders of the counties have shifted with regard to administrative reform. It is probably not possible to form electoral circles of comparable size along the borders of counties in a reasonable way, but first of all we consider it important that there be a reasonable general principle according to which electoral districts are formed in Estonia. Certainly, these seven circles, which have been discussed, would lead to further concentration of power and to a lack of consideration of local interests. Ten or 11 circuits would be more reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U9	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U10	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft Act on the Accession of vessels to the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ballast Waters and its sediments in 2004. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U11	I have adopted six drafts and one inquiry, we will continue to process them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 10th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, one was impartial. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U12	According to our agenda, we will be the first to hear an inquiry by Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp and Krista Aru. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 25 October, the Minister of Health and Labour, Mr Ossinovski, received a referral on behalf of the six representatives of the Free Party, entitled 'The availability of specialised medical care and the happy ending of treatment cases'. The day after tomorrow, a draft amending the law of the Health Insurance Fund developed by the Government of the Republic will most likely be adopted in this Chamber, which must be said immediately, has been worked out in haste and, unfortunately, without the intention of being developed. But this draft had a very ambitious objective: to ensure better access to health care for people and the sustainability of the health care system. In addition, steps are allowed to be taken to improve the functioning of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and increase income from other sources, to transfer health care services financed from the state budget to the health insurance fund so far, and to start paying the health insurance fund from the state budget, which depends on the pensions of non-working pensioners. At the same time, targeting additional resources raises the question of purpose and problem-solving methodology, including how substantive changes are planned in the system itself. As we know, Estonia does not spend much on health care compared to other countries. In international studies, the cost-effectiveness of our system is constantly praised. Unfortunately, however, there is no way we can be positive about this. On a number of indicators of disease mortality, we are at a disgraceful peak, and some social concerns increase or even cause further problems. For example, the large number of people who are addicted to them requires more lives than we might expect. A lot has been said that last year the Health Insurance Fund ended up with a minus of EUR 33 million. In the first half of this year, a deficit of almost EUR 19 million came together, although the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has constantly increased. If you look at the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, a significant part, or 56% of the money, will be allocated to specialist medical care. That is why it is particularly important to analyse this and to deal specifically with the financing of specialist medical care in order to understand why specialist medical care is still not available and the order of treatment is increasing. After all, we all want to have more and more "lucky - ending " physicians. In this way, we have asked the Minister for Health and Labour six questions in order to understand how it is planned to use additional health resources in the coming years to reduce the number of treatments and improve access to health care. We also want to know whether there are analytical criteria or a statistical methodology to examine and assess how much of the people who have been treated will heal. Do we appreciate not only the number of bed days we have but also, in essence, the healing? How many doctors do we need so that we can say that medical attention is available? Will our infrastructure, in which we have invested hundreds of millions of euros, meet the requirements? And finally, we want to know that if we may have enough doctors and an infrastructure, what will be done to make the treatment queues go away and have more happy people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U14	Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U15	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, thank you very much for raising these important questions. I fully agree with you that this is a very important topic for Estonian society. I have prioritised this myself, and I am glad that you have done so in this Chamber too. Indeed, I am pleased that the representative of the honourable heirs pointed out in his introduction that although the Estonian health care system is very cost-effective, so we will get a good service for the little money we place in the health care system as a country, at the same time we know that it has its price. And this price has been, above all, a deterioration in access to medical care, especially in recent years. Clearly, the resource that we have directed health care in our ageing society has been insufficient to provide our people with the kind of healthcare they want. It is precisely because of this that I have also stood by the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu for us to start making additional provision from the state budget to the sickness fund in order to resolve these concerns. As we know, the government took decisions on this in spring and the procedure concerning the reform of the financing of health care is also at an advanced stage in the Riigikogu. This will enable us to channel a significant additional resource into the health insurance fund in the coming years. We have said, and that is what we are going to do at the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs, that this extra money, which will amount to EUR 34 million next year, will be given priority to improving the availability of specialist medical care. You are right to ask what objective this additional money is intended to achieve in order to reduce the number of treatments and, in particular, in order to reduce the order of the specialties. The Management Board of the Health Insurance Fund is the responsible body which is currently preparing these proposals. The Health Insurance Board listened to the preliminary ideas at its meeting on 24 November and a more precise budgeting plan for the following year should reach the Council at its next meeting on 15 December. The Bureau will make its proposals on the basis of which disciplines are most acute, i.e. where there are major queue problems. We have, of course, talked to the board of the Health Insurance Fund about various specialties, but we will certainly await the proposal of the board of the Health Insurance Fund to the council, and then we will share it with both the public and the Riigikogu. But it can be said that we are moving over many years in the direction that next year, the number of specialized medical care that the health insurance fund will order will increase, probably more in tens of thousands. But I don't think it's wise to talk about it until the health fund board has done its final analysis. Now, as far as the queues are concerned, of course, the rules of the order of treatment have been established in Estonia. The instructions for the operation of the family doctor shall state that family doctors must arrange for the day of the visit to the patient with an acute illness, in other cases within five working days. In specialised medical care, this standard is established by the Health Insurance Board and in outpatient specialist care it is six weeks. The Health Insurance Fund regularly measures waiting times by asking specialist health care providers for reports. At the same time, we know that the data available to the Health Insurance Fund show the queues shorter than they can actually be, as the Health Insurance Fund measures the waiting time from the check-in to the reception. But as patients, we know very well that patients in certain specialties, as well as in certain institutions, are not kept in line at all times. Basically, it is also a treatment order, but it is not formally reflected because a person has not gotten in line. We are addressing this problem in the process of developing the introduction of digital transmissions. Currently, the use of digital means of delivery is already mandatory for all healthcare providers. It is possible to monitor the change in waiting times by using data from digital transfer letters, taking into account the time when the family doctor has issued a digital transfer letter to the person. In other words, time is counted not from the moment a person has signed up to a specialist, but from the moment a family doctor has referred him to a specialist by means of a digital transmission. Of course, in the case of additional funding, the Health Insurance Fund will monitor its impact on waiting times and access to services. So this is, let's say, our short-term plan. Indeed, we have an acute need to increase the volume of special medical care that the health insurance fund buys. In recent years, we have seen a decline in this area, especially in cases requiring inpatient treatment. With extra money, we can actually increase the volume of services we buy over long years. But the longer-term plan is, of course, more systematic. For example, in a number of medical professions, we could alleviate the problems of access to assistance by strengthening the provision of healthcare at the primary level and also by improving cooperation between primary and specialist care. This means reviewing the motivations of health care providers, including the current financing model. For example, service-based funding for specialised medical care motivates the reception of patients who have approached it in the hospital even if the person could actually receive assistance at the primary level. The solution would be to set common objectives for primary and specialist medical care in order to heal a person or to control chronic illness, rather than to pay as many individual services as possible. In order to develop specific solutions, we have launched the development of a model for integrated provision of local social care services in the example of Viljandi county. However, the revision of the healthcare financing model will certainly be one of the priorities in the coming years in order to reduce treatment queues and improve access to services. Smaller things at the same time, we're constantly developing. One example is the e-consultation, which extends every year to new professions and where more patients can be helped at first level in cooperation with a specialist and family doctor. But these are a long-term change. The second question: "Is there an analytical criterion or a statistical methodology that examines and evaluates how much of the people who have been treated have benefited, i.e. the number of complications that have improved, the disease has not been repeated, the ability to work and the old way of life have recovered? " The Health Insurance Fund always appreciates such things in its annual report. Of course, admitting a person to be healthy is a doctor's assessment, which is mostly related to the termination of the disability certificate or the issue of a medical certificate in Estonia. In many cases, though, a person may not be fully healed, even if he or she is able to return to work. As a result of the ageing population, the number of people in Estonia who have been identified as having a chronic illness that needs treatment until the end of their life cannot recover from the disease. In the case of more severe diseases, it is difficult to assess full recovery, e.g. a cancer patient should be closely monitored in the health care system after the disease has been released. The doctor may assess that he is able to work, but he or she must continue to receive health care. Internationally, such things as healthy life years are measured. This is certainly one possible indicator. As a whole, we will certainly look at patient survival, and we will look at it both in the context of international studies and in the analysis of the Health Insurance Fund itself for specific diagnoses. We will see how often patients return to the doctor's supervision after the illness, as well as how much post-operative survival is for one disease or another, etc. With one framework for measuring a certain quality, the Health Insurance Fund has come up this year. This has, I remember, caused a very lively response in health care facilities. This is a rather complex issue, but its development has been constantly addressed and will certainly continue to be dealt with. Given the different reasons for seeking medical care and given the structure of the population, it would be a little too narrow if we just took into account those people who have had some kind of problem, they have come to the doctor, they have been cured and no more need of this doctor. We have more and more people, especially in relation to the ageing population, who need constant medical care. The quality of health services improves, we can keep people alive for much longer and improve their health. This means that we also have more chronic patients, and they remain in the field of health care for a very long time. The third question: 'How do you assess if we have 100 doctors more, whether the hospital infrastructure allows them to be put into operation immediately [---] or whether additional investments are needed? ' Surely we can employ 100 doctors in the healthcare system immediately, but it would be too simplistic an approach. Compared to the European Union, we have a little less doctors than the European Union average: we have 3.3 doctors per 1000 inhabitants, an average of 3.5 in the European Union. We know that we have problems with access to medical care, but these are, in general, specific or regional problems. We have certain specialties, such as psychiatry, where doctors are obviously missing. The heads of several hospitals have told me that we will not conclude any more psychiatric contracts, even if there is money, because we do not have doctors to provide this service. At the same time, doctors clearly exist in a large number of disciplines, so that when additional resources are available, more services can also be provided. Family doctors are certainly a major concern, especially considering the average age of family doctors. This is certainly a concern to which the Ministry of Social Affairs attaches great attention, trying to figure out how to get young people to the family doctor system. It's a big problem in certain counties. We also know that several specialties in the counties actually rely on a single doctor and that if this doctor retires at one point, the provision of this health service may be a problem there. As a result, the networking project has also been undertaken. In this way, major hospitals can take greater responsibility for the provision of specialised medical care in the counties. The great human resources concern is definitely sisters in Estonia. If, in terms of doctors, we are more or less at the average level of the European Union, the need for nurses is growing. As a result, we have concluded a consensus agreement with the health stakeholders that in the coming years the order for nurses' training will be significantly increased. Hospitals are interested in employing a large number of nurses, immediately. I wish I had those sisters! That is why, under the collective agreement, additional wage increases will be directed precisely at the average and lower levels of health care workers, in order to make wages more competitive and bring these people to health care. The fourth question is whether increasing the number of specialised doctors is the most effective way to shorten the queues. As has already been said, this is certainly necessary in the case of certain specialties. Psychiatrics are one area where doctors are certainly needed to ensure greater service capacity. When financing the Health Insurance Fund, we will certainly pay more attention to the psychiatrist. Let's hope the hospitals can find more doctors. But it is certainly not a means that solves all the problems in itself. The fifth question is that if increasing the number of specialised doctors does not lead us to lose the order of treatment, what methods would lead to the goal. In summary, there are many things that need to be done at the same time to resolve this problem. Salvation to doctors and nurses in certain specialties is certainly a very important measure. Secondly, you need extra money to make the necessary procedures, because if you have a doctor, but you don't have the money to perform operations or other procedures, that's not gonna help. It's absolutely necessary. But in the long term, it is important to move forward with the developments that I mentioned: e-consultations, strengthening primary care and many other things. And it is undoubtedly also important to improve public health so that we have healthier people at all, turn to the health system later and be able to keep our health much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U16	Questions for the Minister. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U17	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is, of course, very, very nice that we can finally channel health care to the money. It's been expected for years. And it is good that the money will be added to the rising line: if next year there will be 34 million, then in the future there will be even more. But do you have any estimate of how well this 34 million guarantees the number of "treatments" needed? There may be a record of how much treatment requests will not be satisfied by the end of the year. What do you predict how much such a sum shortens the order?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U18	Thank you. This depends on which specialties to allocate extra money to. It can certainly be separated by pulling a wide brush like this, dividing everything a little bit, but it can also be done according to the diagnosis of prioritizations. That's what the Health Insurance Fund has done so far. Certain types of treatment have been financed 100% as a priority, and this has meant that there is less money left for other professions. The average cost of treatment varies from one field to another and the cost of inpatient day care and outpatient care varies from one field to another. The cost of treatment also depends on the medical institution. Therefore, the amount of money allocated to specialties and procedures also depends on how many specific treatment cases can be financed. Outpatient visits are the cheapest, they can be added very much, but there are certainly acute needs in quite a number of inpatient areas and there is a much higher average cost of treatment. So instead of operating with general figures, we should analyse precisely where the most acute additional money is in particular. According to this, additional treatment cases can also be planned for next year's budget. That's what the Health Insurance Board is doing right now. The Council will be informed of the results of its work, as mentioned, on 15 December. After the Governing Council has approved the Management Board's plan, it is already possible to talk about the general figures for the number of specific treatments to be added to one or the other. I'm sure we'll share that information with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You mentioned in your speech that the first-level, or family doctor service, is also very important. After all, it selects whether a person has to get to a specialist. We also know that some people in the specialized medical order are giving up their visit and that this will generate unused resources. Someone in need would have needed this visit very much. How many patients do family doctors refer to a specialist and how many patients register directly? What's the relationship like? And what other specialties are included in the list of specialties directed by family doctors? After all, most specialists can only be contacted by a family doctor. We know that the knowledge of family doctors has expanded and that they can solve many problems. A person does not necessarily have to go to a specialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U21	Thank you. True, in some countries, a family doctor who appreciates what kind of doctor a person should go to and finds time for him or her. In Estonia, the majority of patients close themselves to specialist medicine. It is also true that very often patients make an appointment with a specialist without talking to a family doctor without having a referral. They sign up, and when the time comes, they'll stop by the family doctor's office to get a referral. This certainly has not been the point of the system. The point is that a person turns to a family doctor with his or her health problem and he or she appreciates whether a person needs to go to a specialist and, if so, what kind of doctor does he or she need to see? As has been said, we are currently expanding the service of e-consultation. If the family doctor is not fully sure whether or not to go to a specialist with a particular concern, he or she can consult the specialist using e-tools and, if possible, carry out the necessary procedures tests before the patient goes to the specialist. The truth is, however, that often by this route, patients do not reach help. However, it is generally the rule that only a few specialties can be obtained without a referral from a family doctor or another specialist: skin and sexually transmitted diseases, gynaecological diseases, traumas and eye diseases. I hope I didn't forget anything. Some family doctors, as well as specialist doctors, have raised the question of whether some other professions could still be subject to the referral requirement and, if so, under what conditions. For example, we naturally have a positive desire to check our birthmarks to see if there is a risk of melanoma. A lot of people find out there's really no risk. At the same time, people who really have a problem can't get to the dermatologist now. It's almost impossible to get to a dermatologist's appointment, so the queues are awfully long, because people show their birthmarks. Family doctors could be trained to identify problematic birthmarks that should be monitored or shown to a specialist, and probably in most cases say that there is no cause for concern. We've been talking to the family doctors about this. This requires additional training for family doctors, so this change will take some time. Same thing with an eye doctor. The sequences are very long and the ophthalmologists have said that not all patients who reach them need specialist medical attention. After a small amount of additional training, family doctors could be able to diagnose and treat simple problems. But these changes will certainly take time. Family doctors must have confidence that they can do all this. The representatives of the family doctors' association have also stressed that this requires additional training, which is not currently carried out. But this is one of the issues the Ministry of Social Affairs is trying to develop in the coming years to make these changes more effective. Patients' awareness will certainly play a major role in the broad picture. Of course, we have made an effort to make the first level stronger. At the first level, health centres are going to provide a much larger number of health care services, and hopefully the majority of patients will go to a family doctor with initial concerns, who is competent to decide how to proceed. But this mentality is very slow to change. If something hurts, I'm about to check in with a specialist, and he knows what this family doctor can do. I believe that a change of attitude is taking place, but indeed at a slightly slow pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U22	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U23	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Patients often complain that, even in healthcare, a considerable amount of money is put into so-called concrete: new hospital buildings that are spacious and spacious. How exactly does the health insurance fund account for the depreciation of our hospital buildings? I have read criticism that the depreciation costs of new buildings are too high in terms of medical costs. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U24	The general costs of the hospital are indeed listed in the cost of healthcare. For every healthcare that the health insurance fund buys, the price includes not only the cost of medical work but also the cost of various procedures, but also the general costs of the health care provider or hospital: maintenance costs and investment costs. The board of the Health Insurance Fund is responsible for this area or its pricing, so I cannot give exhaustive answers here. But I can say so much that I have repeatedly called for it as Chairman of the Council and, last time, I also told the new Chairman of the Board of the Health Insurance Fund that this general expenditure component would need a clearer analysis. There are too many costs. For example, general costs include the development costs of IT systems, which are necessary costs, as they can generally increase efficiency. There are also heating costs, which can be reduced by setting efficiency criteria and providing additional incentives for the hospital to heat and repair buildings. There isn't one right now. Investment should certainly also be seen more systematically. The new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund has promised to take this issue more seriously. The various components will be thoroughly analysed. The general motivator is built into prices in such a way that we have already set an efficiency criterion: prices will rise by the consumer price index minus 1%, which is why we have told hospitals that they should increase internal efficiency by 1%. At the same time, I think that, as a general measure of this kind, he is an inadequate management instrument, because hospitals could invest more in certain things, such as IT. They would then be able to take over the digital registration office more vigorously and increase efficiency by introducing different IT solutions. The satisfaction of patients can also be enhanced through IT tools for different services. However, as far as buildings are concerned, we know that switching luminaires alone will save not 10% of the cost of lighting but 60% to 70%. They are a small part of the hospital's total budget, and that is precisely why hospitals have not had much incentive to deal with it. For example, if lighting accounts for 3%, 4% or 5% of the total budget, there is little incentive to save 10% of it. But if we look at the whole system, that 5% would save a pretty nice drop. This is certainly an area in which the Health Insurance Fund should introduce much more specific motivations. For example, it has been my idea to set the goal that we want to see a 50% reduction in heating and other such costs in five or ten years' time. This is a clear plan, it will be encouraged and it will provide hospitals with an incentive to heat their building, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U25	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Our second question concerned analysis criteria or statistical methodology, which can be used to assess the quality of treatment. You said one measure could be healthy years of life. If we base it on that, we're still pretty much in the negative. In the last seven years, the average number of healthy women's lives has decreased by three years and by 1.4 years for men. This fact does not promise us much good. Assuming that this is due to the lack of access to specialised medical care, it is likely that there is a need to put more money or to make services cheaper. There is, of course, one way to resolve the issue of depreciation, but the other is to say that we are having an arms race in the field of medical devices. Is there something we are going to do to put an end to this arms race and move to more sustainable management?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U27	Thank you for your question. First of all, this arms race isn't like a little myth. I certainly do not want to say that there is no problem, but from time to time, perhaps the size of this problem is overestimated. True, there are examples. Whether through the Christmas Tunnel or otherwise, money has been collected to buy an expensive medical device in a hospital where this level of research should not be carried out. However, if we look at the entire budget for specialist medical care, which is EUR 600 or 700 million, the purchase of medical devices will make up a beautiful small part of it. But this, of course, does not mean that we should not have to deal with this issue. I know that hospitals are looking for an opportunity to cooperate more closely with each other, for example, on joint procurement of medical devices. I'm sure that makes a lot of sense. It is also worth analysing that, if hospitals currently procure hospital medicines themselves, they themselves purchase them, perhaps it would be wise to centralise it and organise joint procurement. On the broader side of health management, however, the aim is that we can agree on the extent to which health services are provided on the spot in all Estonian hospitals, in particular county hospitals, but also on large, higher-stage hospitals, and on the extent to which health services are provided on-site in special areas, and what assistance is provided in cooperation with another hospital. This also concerns the networking of hospitals. In the case of Tallinn, especially considering the plan to establish Tallinn Hospital, it is important to agree on the division of work, especially with the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital, but also with one central hospital in the future. There must be no duplication. There is a problem with medical devices, but perhaps even bigger in terms of staff. Some of the narrowest medical professions have only a handful of people in Estonia who are strong in this field. If another hospital wants to provide services in this field, where does it get these specialists? He's luring these people from another hospital with a higher salary to come to him. At the same time, we have to ask what the Estonian patient will gain from this, what the Estonian health care system will gain from this, that one hospital will take over the other in this way. I think that more cooperation between hospitals would be needed in the case of particularly narrower and more expensive specialties. This would also make it possible to reduce duplication. We have launched this process, but for objective reasons we are lagging behind the initial plans in time. This is precisely with regard to the many changes that have been made to the medical system and also with regard to the Presidency of the European Union. But next year it will be more serious. We will certainly then also analyse the development of the local health model pilot project already mentioned in Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, If you don't mind, I'm going to extend this topic a little bit to family doctors. A month ago, a rather critical article was published on how the primary health centre reached the conclusion of the first agreement. Those demands were pretty weird. For example, a midwife was required at a place where there are women's clinics around Tallinn and some metal accessories, although one-time accessories were available. Please tell me how this conclusion of contracts is going and whether in the medical system you think a reasonable margin of discretion on the ground could be allowed more. Why stick to such rigid demands if it doesn't make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U30	The answer is that there could really be more flexibility. The new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund will surely agree that there could be more reasonable flexibility. At the same time, it must be understood that the sickness fund system distributes more than EUR 1 billion of taxpayers' money. Business interests in this area are significant. This means that there is a very high likelihood in the various decision-making decisions that one or the other party who disagrees may question the reasonableness of the consideration. This also means litigation, for example, over the distribution of the contract or the fulfilment of certain conditions. Competitors are looking very hard at what others are doing. It is natural, and it is part of the competition that we want control to be accurate, but it has led to such a mentality that the Health Insurance Fund is trying to provide each of its decisions with a specific section that states exactly how it is to be done. The less they have judgements, the less there are litigations. That's basically how you understand it. But the truth is that, given the complexity of this field and the special features of Estonia, it is not always possible or reasonable to pursue the sections. So there could be more reasonable flexibility. And I'm sure the new chairman of the health insurance board will support that kind of thinking. Let's hope he can implement it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U31	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I recently came to read a news report that I hope that memory will not let me down about 30% of the problems faced by those who are visiting the emergency department has not been a problem in this area, but either chronic problems or other problems that could have been helped by a family doctor or another doctor. Does this not mean that we have serious shortcomings in the availability of both specialist and regular medical care? What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U33	Of course he speaks of course, that is what it speaks of! If the line for a specialist is as long as he is in many disciplines, then it is perfectly understandable and logical that people go to the ER. However, a separate question is the percentage number you referred to. And people go to the ER even if they don't really need any medical care. There are actually many of these people. For example, some sleep the night, and the next morning discovers that there is nothing wrong. But in addition to these, there are people who need medical attention, but for them, the right level would be the first level, or family doctor. I guess we have to understand people. If you're still concerned about your health, of course you're looking for help. There's nothing wrong with it. I can't remember if a year or more ago someone started a discussion about why an ambulance has to come up with every challenge. People call an ambulance with a light hand, an ambulance comes in, but it turns out there's not much wrong with a person. I am of the opinion that this assurance must in any case be available to a person that, if he or she is concerned about his or her close health, he or she must be able to consult a medical professional. However, there are sometimes less reasonable ways to do this than to summon an ambulance. For example, you can call 1220, or family doctor's helpline, and get a consultation. It is certainly possible to call your family doctor and ask him for advice. But if nothing else helps, there's gotta be a guarantee that a person can either go to the emergency department or call an ambulance. I don't think it's right. But I'm sure this percentage of turning to the emergency department in vain is a signal that we have problems with the availability of specialist medical care in particular, and that is why we need to channel more money into specialist medical care. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U34	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, and also the Chairman of the Health Insurance Board! How strong do you think the hope that these amounts will be allocated to the health insurance fund will still be for the treatment of the sick? After all, it has recently become more than half as a result of disability or, rather, the assessment of work ability. Earlier, when the size of the trees was assessed, not how much one person or another could work, it was not so expensive. It turns out that doctors have started to earn considerably more, and this work is going to be much more expensive for the country than it was before.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U36	Thank you. As has been said, the 34 million which will be additionally allocated from the state budget next year will be used to improve access to specialist medical care, i.e. to increase the volume of treatment services and thereby reduce treatment queues. In addition, the sickness fund also receives other additional funds due to the organic growth of social tax. This money will, of course, address other concerns: additional general medical care will be financed at the level of the general practitioner, new medicines will be taken on the list of preferential medicines and specializations will be updated, new procedures will be introduced for financing, price lists will be adjusted. It's kind of a routine development. But this additional money will go first and foremost to improving the availability of specialist medical care, as we have promised from the outset.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U37	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. In one of your responses, you touched on the capacity of medical institutions in the field of IT, as well as on the opportunities it offers to medical institutions through its development, for the whole of medicine. But what do you appreciate today's development potential? Do our big registers, which have been done for years, work? Can hospitals exchange enough information with each other in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act? Is there much duplication in this area, or has it now been eliminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U39	It's okay, but it could be better. What else can I say? The IT capacity of health care or, more generally, the IT capacity of the social sector has been satisfactory. But we have made a serious contribution to improving this capacity. Since the beginning of this year, the new IT centre TECHNIQUE has been launched, this is the Centre for Health and Wellbeing Information Systems, where both the mapping of the situation has been decisively addressed to see what is happening to us with the various registers and the systematic promotion of development projects. When I arrived at the Ministry, I was there now, by memory, I hope I don't lie about 200 IT developments at once. There was development all along, not a single thing was finished, everyone was in the process of development. We went over this situation with a very critical rake. We said that we would leave the things that we cannot or cannot do now, because there is not enough money or there is not enough regulatory access to these things, too, because there are very strict data protection requirements, aside. Let's not do them, let's do the things that have the hope of actually completing them. And it gets better, it gets better. We are moving in the direction of improving the situation. But, of course, not everything is just a country to do. Much also depends on doctors, for example. The inclusion of health information system data has been mandatory for a whole decade, but many doctors still do not. In particular, this has now come out in the context of the assessment of the ability to work. For example, psychiatrists have not systematically done this work, and this has led to false decisions about people that they have had to appeal and submit additional documents themselves. It's just that doctors didn't carry the necessary information into the information system. We'll move on, but the system is big and complicated. It also depends very much on the specific people who work there. These changes take time. Another thing is that in a situation where the ministry or state's overall capacity has been limited, there is probably no alternative to it that all health institutions have developed their own information systems. In fact, in a country as small as Estonia has its concentrated health network, there could really be a unified system that would be directly compatible and where data would move without hindrance where necessary. It would be good if we did not have any change in plans to say that, unfortunately, it cannot be put into effect until the next year, because only then will the information system for family doctors be updated. We could actually make these changes much faster and more flexible. So, as we strive to correct the whole picture, it takes time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U40	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We have a large number of people uninsured and, at the same time, a large amount of money from the state budget goes to health care, both to improve the quality and availability of treatment. Will there be any measures in the near future to ensure that uninsured people can access healthcare better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U42	It is true that we have such a perfectly understandable and well-known problem that some 90,000 people are without health insurance. Many of them are people who have health insurance for some time and then again do not have a status depending on what their status on the labour market is in one period or another. I have said that medical care is at least a basic social issue in 21st century Estonia. If a person is ill, if he or she needs health care, he or she should receive it regardless of whether he or she is young or old, whether he or she is working. Medical care is something so primary that everyone should have it. Here is the analogy with education. When a child reaches some age, we provide him or her with education free of charge, regardless of where he or she comes from, who his or her parents are and what his or her abilities are, because this is a national basic service. I see no reason why healthcare should be different. Of course, it is clear that the health care system works on the principle of insurance. I think this principle is right, and in the future I see no reason to change the core of the system, the infrastructure or the backbone, but the access of these people to medical care is an issue that needs a solution. I think that we need to ensure access to healthcare for all, or health insurance. We're doing an analysis on this at the Ministry of Social Affairs right now. It will be completed by spring next year and will also summarise the various indirect costs that society will bear because we do not have some people insured for medical treatment. After all, emergency emergency help is guaranteed for everyone, from the state budget we pay nearly 10 million a year for this, but we know that people without health insurance will reach the doctor too late. And if they get there too late, their treatment will cost considerably more. Often they can no longer be cured, but it is also very expensive. If a person can be systematically monitored by a family doctor, detected and prevented at an early stage, this will help to save the costs of the medical system. So this is a topic that should be discussed much more thoroughly in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U43	Thank you, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Happy members of the Riigikogu. In response to today's inquiry, and as a listener to this discussion, I would like to put a title to this debate and this title could be 'Ravikindlustroll as an unmanageable money'. Available and affordable medical care is a key to the success of Estonia with a very clear human face. We want us to have a country where every person has value for us, regardless of gender, age, social status or place of residence, and is invested in him in the best way, and he gets help in the best way. We want us to have more and more "lucky ending" cases: a person can return to his or her former life as soon as possible after illness, or at least he or she can prevent the disease from getting worse, slow down the deterioration of his or her health and avoid complications. Christmas will come soon, and again calls will be made to donate some kind of apparatus or otherwise to provide some kind of health care. Because it's angel time. And who wouldn't care about other people's problems at Christmas? A donation is still made, be it to the Christmas Tunnel, where this year the Tallinn Children's Hospital Support Foundation will be supported to create a family-centred intensive care unit for newborns born prematurely, or to another canal charity program. Many good people make permanent donations to support funds, such as the Cancer Treatment Fund Gifted Life. Why am I talking about charity now when we are discussing the availability of specialist medical care? This is a very valid question, but the link is very obvious. In fact, if we listen to the Minister's answers and look into the public and universal financial indicators of hospitals, it seems that we have more than one place where, by acting reasonably, it is possible to improve access to medical care and to provide people with the necessary treatment within a reasonable period of time, with the shortest possible waiting time, and before health is irreversibly deteriorating or there is a so-called spontaneous surprising improvement, or worse, a person dies without assistance. And all this can be achieved without knocking on people's consciences during Christmas. In 2016, when wage negotiations took place, Minister Ossinovski said that the number of treatment cases would increase in 2017. However, when you look at the explanatory memorandum from the Health Insurance Fund, you realize that you are trying to maintain the existing situation. However, doctors say that access to medical services has deteriorated by at least 18%. The Minister assures us that next year, tens of thousands of medical leaders will be added. I'd love it if it was! Looking at the financial figures of hospitals and looking at their cash flows, it was very surprising that the hospital's cash flow was a strong advantage. While the Health Insurance Fund is down, hospitals are in a strong advantage of about the same size as last year was in the minus. Maybe hospitals have tens of millions of free money. I will also make some suggestions here on how this situation could be improved. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U45	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U46	The first issue we touched on today is the depreciation of buildings, which has been included in the price of each case of treatment, which allows hospitals to increase the price of treatment cases. It is my view, as well as the view of many specialists, that so-called buildings and depreciation should be completely excluded when calculating the cost of medical services. Service providers are now made to be businessmen, real estate managers, but they really shouldn't be. They should be able to focus on their only core activity: treating people. Our hospitals are, to a large extent, business companies, and this has led to a pointless overpayment of specialist medical care. It is estimated that it will cost EUR 10 million a year, just because we have very short depreciation periods compared to other countries. On average 12% depreciation per year is too high. We have it on average for ten years, but the buildings could have a much longer period, 30 to 40 years, a shorter period of technology. After all, the management of buildings must meet a certain standard; it should not be profitable. Looking at what is happening in hospitals and what their budgets are, we see that it is like a profit-driven activity. In general, it is considered very good to have a net asset share of around 40%. For example, at the University of Tartu Hospital it is nearly 70%, at PERH 55% and at Pärnu Hospital 60%. Secondly, I want to touch very briefly on the salaries of health professionals. As the Minister said, the problem is mostly with nurses, doctors in certain fields, such as psychiatrists, as well as family doctors. What's it coming from? Our doctors and other medical staff say that their salaries are not appropriate, and this has been said for many years. That's why they're going elsewhere. The annual reports show that hospitals actually have the money to keep their medical staff and reward their employees, or pay more wages. It is estimated that it would be normal for around 60% of the budget to cover labour costs. The reports show that in the University of Tartu Hospital this figure is 52%, in PERH 46% and in Pärnu Hospital 60%. Patients would also be able to contribute more to the workforce. I want to call for more people, not concrete. Thirdly, very briefly about medical technology and the arms race in this area. This, too, is certainly a place where savings can be made and services can be made cheaper. If health services and treatments are cheaper, more people can be helped with the same money. Finally. We asked how many people have recovered and how more patients could be cured when more money comes into the system. Actually, we didn't get very good answers to that. We learned that in December the Council will come together and will decide everything. It seems a little strange, because for years there has been talk about this subject and getting more money into the system for exactly the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U47	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U48	Mr. President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't plan on coming to the remote tonight. To be honest, I don't think I'm a big specialist in this field. But listening to these questions-answers, and this optimistic tone, it is, of course, nice that we look ahead optimisticly, so we must! However, I had a spiteful question about the problem that I have experienced personally and also in the case of my relatives. In particular: access to specialist medical care. If you need a doctor, very often you will be given some mysterious deadline in two or three months. More mysteriously, they say with almost one breath: but you can get a paid service immediately. I cannot tell you how to build a bridge between paid and free specialist medical care so that it is available, as the Minister said, as a self-evident service for all people. A lot of people don't have that money to pay. All right, he'll find this one-off, say, 50 euros or some other amount to go to the doctor there, but if it turns out he needs further treatment, which requires a fee analysis in addition to this paid consultation, but he doesn't have any health insurance and he can't get permanent care with the support of the Health Insurance Fund, then there might be a very serious problem that could end up fatal for some people. Because of these questions and the answers I received, I was forced to come here and leave this question in the air. How do we build a bridge between these two things so that the health service is actually available to everyone for granted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U49	The members of the Riigikogu have no more desire to participate in the negotiations; the minister does. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U50	Thank you. A few small remarks. Mr Helme drew attention to an important issue. Indeed, what happens if a patient who has come to a paid visit or who has had urgent medical assistance does not have health insurance. If it turns out that he needs to be provided with additional health care, even if an operation is carried out, whether he really will be in trouble. That is what I was talking about, and I really think that we should seriously discuss what to do to ensure that all people are covered by health insurance. How does the system work in practice now? For example, a person without health insurance comes to the emergency department with some kind of pain and tests are done. Turns out he's got cancer. The cancer needs to be cut. At the time, the unemployment fund will be filled in with the Social Insurance Agency, the incapacity for work, which is essential for its condition, and as soon as it is completed, it will have health insurance and the state will still pay for the treatment. A humorous solution in this situation needs to be found, and it will always be found. But certainly this is not the most sensible way to resolve this situation. Mrs Haukanõm raised a number of important issues here, some of which I would like to comment on. First of all, the positive results of hospitals. I, too, have looked at the reports and, at first glance, startled that how do hospitals have a positive unemployment rate, while the health system itself, or health insurance, has a negative result?! If you have specific questions about specific hospitals, we can certainly look at it more closely, but in most cases, I dare say, it is a question of allocating financing transactions over different years. For example, if there is a need for co-financing of a euro project, some amount of money will be raised to finance this project later. Viljandi Hospital is doing that right now. They wait for the decision to start building a new house, and now they have to raise money to pay for their own money. For this reason, in certain periods the result may be positive, in certain periods negative. But it has to be analysed separately for each hospital. Unfortunately, in this way, these figures do not show anything. I fully agree with workers' salaries. Of course, this is one reason why doctors' wages have risen prematurely. It is not just a question of whether, objectively speaking, healthcare professionals are paid much or little. If we compare with the OECD average, our medical salaries are at the OECD average, which means that our doctors receive on average two Estonian average salaries, nurses receive one average salary and carers receive 60% of nurses' wages. So at OECD average level, we are, and for example from Latvia, our doctors' salaries are twice as high. But let's take what our real problem is. Our real concern is that we have a health system very close to ours over the bay. The language barrier is also quite easy to overcome. This means that we need to increase our medical salaries compared to the OECD average. We need to look not at the OECD average, but at the Finnish average. This is why we will have to raise the salaries of healthcare workers at an early pace in the future, and society must understand why this is necessary. It's not always that understanding, I'm afraid. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, however, this is well understood. As regards depreciation and the other cost components that we discussed here, I will make a completely practical proposal. In my opinion, the representatives of the Health Insurance Fund could come to the Social Affairs Committee and we could unravel this problem on our own. I absolutely don't rule out the possibility of doing things. Something about what I've had in mind, I've already told you. I believe that it is possible to answer these questions and perhaps to agree with the new Bureau on certain developments. And lastly, the health sector is like a business. The business is profitable, not treating patients. But we have to bear in mind that hospitals in the hospital network development plan are public-owned. Everything is owned by the public sector, whether owned by the municipality or the state, or in one case owned by the state university and the municipality, such as the Tartu University Hospital. As far as I know, there have been no cases where dividends were withdrawn. If there has been a positive result, this money will remain in the hospital and will finance the hospital's main activity, which is the provision of healthcare. So, yes, they are based on the logic of a business, but their function, in most of them, is the foundations, and their aim is still to ensure medical care and in some years, the result is positive. This money still goes to give patients a better service. Unfortunately, you can't say that for all private clinics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U51	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U52	Our next question is presented by Uno Kaskpeit, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Helme, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U53	Dear Chairman, Dear Minister, We issued an inquiry on 18 October and this concerns the bottlenecks in the training of Estonian reserve officers. In recent times, much has been said about training and courses for reserve officers, which are being organised more and more quickly and in passing. We have four questions here that I am not going to read out in terms of time savings, and the Minister mentions every question. Only sad is it that only less than 10% of people are interested in the issue of national defence and its quality. That's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U54	Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U55	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about the training of reserve officers, its logic and possible problems. Let me start with a few general lines. As you know, our defence forces are reserve forces. In addition to the sufficient number of soldiers and officers in active service, we need reserve troops to be trained in military service as well as in the Defence League. Since we are discussing matters relating to the reservists, I am currently excluding the active troops, even though this is a very important issue. I would point out that the involvement of a sufficient number of citizens is very important for the reserve forces. There is a general duty of military service in Estonia, but in reality only about a third of the young men of the year go through military service. (I say that in Finland, for example, this percentage is about 80.) This situation is unsustainable; the general obligation must be general. Otherwise, the question arises as to why we have such a national obligation at all if it falls on only some citizens. We will soon give a number of legislative acts to the Riigikogu procedure. We have set out to increase the number of young people in military service from today's 320 to 4000. This contributes to valuing military service. We have also included a number of measures in this legislative package to strengthen or make it more difficult to evade military service. I count on the strong and unanimous support of the Riigikogu when dealing with these drafts. And now questions about reserve officers. The first question: 'Who will draw up the training programme for reserve officers and what will be done on the basis of the principles of the training courses for reserve officers? " Reserve officers are trained by two channels, if you could say so. One is the advance from military service, where reserve group leaders are trained. You could say that virtually all of our reserve group commanders are made up of reserveists. Secondly, there is a separate programme of staff officers, where the Defence Forces operate in cooperation with the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly (EROK), based on the following logic. Candidates for reserve officers' courses shall be selected in cooperation between the Defence Forces and the Reserve Officers' Assembly. This is done on the basis of two objectives. First of all, in addition to ratings, the Defence Forces need specialists from civil areas: IT specialists, medical specialists, etc. The people you are most likely interested in here are in the same line, i.e. politicians, economics, as well as lawyers. All of them receive training called the base course of a staff officer, and it is similar to officers-specialists, for example, medical specialists. So, what's the field of expertise for these officers? In particular, the Defence Forces see them as so-called CIMIC officers, or civil-military relations specialists, as well as strategic communication and logistics specialists. I believe you can imagine that if, for example, an experienced construction businessman is a staff officer, he also has the abilities and skills to perform the tasks of a staff logistics officer. This programme, which I mentioned, is somewhat different from the programme that was in force until 2016. I want to say in this hall that the reserve officers of the different vintages have been trained differently. Until 2016, the Ensign Group Chief was trained, currently only in military service. I think I only see one person in this class. Since 2016, there are officers and specialists. How are these people chosen? They will be chosen, as I said, in cooperation with the EROK and the Defence Forces. The Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly is aware of the specialties or competences that are lacking in the Defence Forces, and in cooperation with the two organisations, these people are also selected. The training programmes you asked about, as well as all other programmes involving military preparation, will be developed by the Defence Forces, namely the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions, based solely on the needs of the Defence Forces. I'm gonna tie up the second and third questions. 'How is it possible that persons without any military training or military service can immediately attend reserve officers' courses? ' And in my opinion, should such persons not attend the sergeants' or junior officers' course or have been involved in the work of the Defence League for at least a long time? I'll answer it like this. The fact that a person has not completed military service in his or her past life is not in itself an obstacle if we want to use his or her competence or skills, because he or she will also be given the necessary basic military knowledge in reserve officers' courses. As you know, it was still the practice in the 1990s to exempt higher education graduates from military service, which is why the proportion of those who went through the military service of these vintages is lower. Let's put it this way: it's absolutely a fact that young men of entire vintages have not completed the service. Today they are no longer so young, but if they wish to become reserve officers, the state has created such an opportunity for them. As far as participation in the activities of the Defence League is concerned, this is, of course, a very important argument if a person is admitted to the courses of reserve officers. This is not an absolute condition, but usually people who are interested in this specialty and the career of a reserve officer are also active members of the Defence League. And if they also want to rise by, for example, the levels of service on their chosen path, this work is usually done through the Defence League. So when it comes to the self-development and development of reserve officers, this is usually done through the structures of the Defence League. The role of these officers in wartime positions has often been asked. We have done a great deal to improve our mobilisation capacity, to control the actual readiness of the various defence forces. Today, I can confirm that our ability to communicate, communicate and convene with the reservists placed in military positions has improved dramatically compared to previous years. We will, of course, continue to work in this direction. If you ask whether members of the Riigikogu are also involved in additional training gatherings, this depends very much on the situation. I recall that in the event of war, all members of the Riigikogu are basically exempt from mobilization because they provide vital services: they adopt the laws of the Republic of Estonia and exercise the right of control over the executive power. This function is important in times of peace, but it is just as important in times of crisis and war. Therefore, we do not normally invite reserve troops from members of the Riigikogu to military positions. And the last question: 'What is the attitude of the Minister of Defence towards the future code of ethics of the reserve officer, in the case of a person currently passing the course and becoming known for harassment in Malaysia? ' I believe that this is an issue that has nothing to do with the development of the Estonian Defence Forces. Let us say only so much that there is no separate code of ethics for a reserve officer in Estonia. There is a Code of Ethics of the Defence Forces in Estonia and it can also be found on the website of EOK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U56	Questions for the Minister. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U57	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. In the Committee on National Defence, in particular, Mr Ants Laaneots has repeatedly raised the issue that, while we are preparing for a reserve, this also applies to reserve officers, and he estimates that there are 60000 men in the order of magnitude who have completed military service or certain courses, but at the same time we do not have these units in the Defence Forces military structure. The people on the reservation really don't know where they're supposed to go, what units they're going to belong to, whether their speciality is being used, etc. Can you enlighten us now by saying that work is under way to eliminate this chaotic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U58	Thank you. Indeed, there is work in this regard. Let's just say we have a tragedy or a problem in a small country here. One thing is, if you have troops on paper, but they're completely useless, unless you have the ability to train, provide equipment, transport, communications and medical services, etc. So it is true that our rapid response reserve in the current structure of our Defence Forces is much lower than the proportion of the reserve forces we train each year. It has certain advantages: we can use a "top overlay" for some troops, if anything happens to one fighter, no one can come by mobilisation for any particular reason. In general, Ants Laaneots is right in the sense that our defence forces are smaller in size than the number of reservists to be trained. But it's inevitable if we're based on the assumption that every unit has to be really combatable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U59	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U60	Thank you. Dear Minister, In our small country, a broad-based defence and the military skills and development of all kinds of national citizens are really important. This can be seen in the case of one person, but it can also be viewed more generally. I want to get out of the subject a little bit, expand it, look a little bit in the other dimension. In fact, could people with special needs also serve in the Estonian defence forces? The Defence Forces aren't just front troops, we have rear troops. There are many important functions that people with special needs could have in mind, in particular, people with disabilities, within the limits of their abilities...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U61	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U62	In short, I think I got a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U63	It's clear. Thank you. The answer is yes. Today, the very universal health requirements of the Defence Forces, which are often not met by people with disabilities, are an obstacle. While we are imagining various positions of the Defence Forces, indeed, there is no need for very strong physical preparation everywhere. Let's start with the scouts and finish with the specialists in the rear. The Ministry of Defence plans to change these requirements in such a way that disabled people, if they have an interest, have the opportunity to work in the Defence Forces. Especially important is the fact that very many of our veterans, who actually have high-level military training, could find work in the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U64	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U65	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to this issue of involving people from non-military backgrounds in the training of reserve officers, that is, as politicians, doctors were talking about here. To the fact that you also admitted that not all of them can be applied during wartime. We all know why that is. Basically, through these trainings, the ideology of total defence is popularised among the rest of society's elite. However, is there no particular risk or risk, or is the risk or risk considered? If we still compare, say, people with superficial training with seriously trained people, then ultimately, in some real military situation, the first may cause more harm than benefits if they are involved in structures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U66	Thank you. You are right, of course, that, when this programme was developed in the 1990s, it was based in many ways on the idea that it should be taken into account, especially in the elite of society, if you could say as many active people as possible, who would, of course, also support national defence, engage in its popularisation, etc. But let's look at it really, let's take it into account that there's a pretty serious security threat today, a hybrid threat, not a massive war, which is always possible. If you have an officer at the battalion or brigade headquarters, or even above, who, for example, is an experienced politician and who can deal with both civil-military relations and strategic communication, because he has dealt with it every day in his main offices, I think that's a good thing. It would be pretty hard for the Defence Forces to train specialists like that in military school. I say, in answer, that the nature of the war has become so much more complicated that it seems to me personally that there is, in fact, a completely honest and credible need for such officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U67	Thank you, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U68	Mr. President! A few colleagues! Minister, thank you for your answers. The answers were practical and quite well open and illuminate a number of points. After all, our questioning is not being carried out by wanting to pick on the opposition in any way. Our question is about the desire to expand the discussion on defence issues in this Chamber, not only in the Ministry of Defence, not only in the Committee on National Defence, because, in our small country, the use of resources is not just reasonable, but truly effective, critical. It is indeed crucial here that our officers' frame meets the requirements. And not only to demands, but also to needs, because only very stupid people can think that warfare is some kind of stupid fighting between people. Modern war is a highly complex and very versatile area, which also requires highly diverse specialists. The content of our questions was whether these courses in this form would satisfy the requirement of diversifying our officers' frame. The answers were that, in part, yes, but certainly not in part. I want to expand the subject a little and bring in one of the areas that we are talking about here, but in which I have the feeling that, in fact, very little has been done in recent years to make this area truly active. That's exactly the cyber field. We know very well, as our head of intelligence recently said through the press, that Zapad 2017 showed our eastern neighbour unexpectedly a great capacity in this area. And the question now is whether we are ready to increase our ability. The fact that we have a NATO cyber defence centre here is not enough. After all, the Cyber Defence Centre deals to a very large extent with theoretical problems, legislation and so on. The question of whether we can effectively counter cyber attacks and quickly repair the damage caused remains in the air. In fact, the inclusion of reservations and the training of those in the reserve are also of critical importance here. I can say from my own experience that our northern neighbours, from whom we should learn time and again, how to do something rationally, economically and effectively in defence, have taken very long steps in this area. Among other things, it was said that we would increase the number of those called for service, which is undoubtedly to be welcomed. In Finland, I had the opportunity to see that it is the cyber sector that uses conscripts who are for some reason unfit to serve in line service. They either limp in one leg or have some other minor physical disability, of course not an intellectual disability. It is therefore possible to train them specifically for cyber attacks and other cyber activities in the military field. Perhaps the minister will add a few lines after, whether we have something like this... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U70	... already in the making or planned. But I imagine that this is a real challenge in today's increasingly complicated warfare, which is often seen from the civilian side as not warfare. The war is in a virtual room, and we may not even feel it every day. That's one thing. And in this respect, I would like to say that if we are going to develop this area, I do not think we should do it again in any way sporadic. So we have a certain number of people who have been trained in the field. Firstly, this training needs constant improvement, because the cyber sector, as we know, is developing at an enormous rate. Secondly, it needs organisational structuring. Here, too, units must be assembled. They need to know where they are going, who their superiors are, what their specific areas of action are, what vital areas they need to ensure that attacks there fail or can be repaired. I wanted to take our entire questioning to a wider surface and point out that this old Prussian marching on a good parade is a great thing, but it is certainly not the most appropriate way to prepare today's military forces, the defence forces, and it certainly does not cover all the important areas that our defence must cover. So thank you again for your answers. And if it's possible to get a line on the cyber field, we're grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U71	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U72	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! I came here to talk about the reserve officers, but I still have to start by adjusting my good colleague Mart Helmet. In an article referring to Zapad, the Head of the Intelligence Center wrote not about Russia's cyber capabilities, but about Russia's electronic warfare capabilities. These are two very different things. Cyberspace is an internet and all devices and things that can be managed through the Internet. Electronic warfare is when electronic devices are affected: communications are suppressed, etc. If cyber battles are won by people, even an incomparable specialist with a small laptop can win this battle, electronic warfare depends primarily on the means of warfare, or technology. Now the reserve officers. I have had the honour of attending the courses of reserve officers and the creation of the Estonian Assembly of Reserve Officers since 1996. The Reserve Officers' Assembly was formed in 1997. We do have very diverse or, let's say, reserve officers with different historys. Some have gone from active duty to reserve and are now reserve officers. Some have become reserve officers through military service, junior officers, junior officers, and reserve officers. There are those who have started their careers in the Defence League, graduated from the Defence League School, trained as a group leader and later as a company leader, and are now reserve officers. And there are those you were particularly interested in, perhaps reserve officers with a zero-military background. As the Minister mentioned here, they are specialists. They cannot and must not be interpreted as rival officers: they will never lead a division in the forest; they will not fight weapons. In reserve officers' courses, they receive basic training, in particular on staff procedures, i.e. their excellent civil competence, comes with the competence of military work. In the office, you sit at the table the same way as you do in your everyday professional work, when you're a lawyer, a logistics system, whoever, and your main weapon is the brain. Such reserve officers will never lead a section, a group, or a company in the forest. These are the so-called zero reserve officers. And indeed, as has been said here, it would be very difficult to teach media professionals, psychological protection specialists, etc. in the Defence Forces' United Educational Institutions. So this training niche for reserve officers is primarily intended for the integration of good civilian specialists into the reserve of the Defence Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U73	The members of the Riigikogu have no further request, the Minister does. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U74	Very briefly about the cyber issues Mart Helme mentioned. It is quite clear that it is not possible to train cyber specialists in military schools or at least not only in military schools. It is a competence that actually exists in society. Take, for example, the specialists responsible for the cyber security of banks with a very high degree. In their case, it is primarily a question of how we can bring them to national defence. Estonia actually has one very good opportunity to do so. It is a cyber defence unit of the Defence Union, where these same experts can also work more actively and professionally on the wider side of cyber defence. They may be specialists in matters of the security of their authority, but in the Defence League they can deal with this subject much more widely, focusing on the security of our military and civilian infrastructure, say cyber infrastructure. On the other hand, Estonia wants to create a cyber-military leadership as soon as next year, because the cyber capabilities of the administration of the Estonian Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence are already so advanced that they need a centralised management, planning and coordination system. It is certainly very important that we can also engage as much as possible with specialists who already have this preparation that would be usable. I believe that these same reserve officers would be a very important resource here, as would the Defence League. The question of health requirements that has been heard here is extremely important, and I will come back to that once again. Indeed, in the case of a person who is involved in cyber security, it is not very important that he is able to engage in combat activities. So this issue of health requirements is important, we will definitely come to the government and, if necessary, to the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U76	An inquiry 3 on today's agenda has been submitted by Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm and Jüri Adams. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U77	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! You could all be greeted almost by name. As we know, every proper inquiry must be based on a law at the request of the Board of the Riigikogu. This inquiry has been written on the basis of the museum law. More specifically, § 18 of the Museum Act states that a public competition is organised to fill the position of Head of State Museum. The procedure for conducting this competition shall be laid down by the Minister by means of a regulation. The law does not provide clear detailed guidance on how to set up a competition committee in particular. It is expected that it will be made up by the Minister anyway, without any clarification in the law. Some time ago, a competition was held for the leader of the Estonian National Museum. This attracted increased public interest, including criticism, and raised questions. In this context, the questioners have asked the Minister, in particular, from two points of view. Firstly, whether and how was the transparency of this competition ensured? How was the independence of the competition committee ensured? And how will the management of the Estonian National Museum be ensured next year? If it was originally assumed that the new manager would start working on 22 January 2018, the state prosecutor who won the competition will wish and be able to resign from his current post and go back to new job only in April 2018. How will this contradiction be resolved? The heirs hope that the Minister will have good answers for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U78	Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U79	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioners! On 6 November, members of the Riigikogu Andres Ammas, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõm and Jüri Adams sent me an inquiry into the competition of the head of the Estonian National Museum. I'll read the questions and then I'll answer them. I hope that the answers will also be good, as the previous speaker wished. Question No 1: 'What did you do as a minister in order to ensure the transparency of the competition of the Head of the Estonian National Museum and the independence of the competition committee in accordance with Article 18 of the Museum Act and the Ministerial Regulation? Do you think that it is normal for a majority of the members of the committee to be directly responsible for the chairman of the committee? How does this differ from the so-called 'leading democracy' model practiced in Yeltsin's Russia? Article 18 of the Museum Act provides for the appointment of the Head of the State Museum. First, a public competition is organised to fill the office of Head of State Museum. Secondly, the requirements for the candidate of the Head of the State Museum and the procedure for conducting the public competition shall be laid down by regulation by the Minister, if the State Museum is a state agency administered by the Ministry, or by a decree of the Head of the State Institution or Government Authority administered by the Ministry, if the State Museum is a structural unit of that institution. Third, the Minister or the head of a state or government agency administered by the Ministry shall conclude a fixed-term contract of employment with the Head of the State Museum for a maximum period of five years. All these conditions are met. The competition was based on Order No 63 of the Minister of Culture of 7 July 2017, which entered into force on 20 July 2017. According to this, we announced a public competition to fill the post of director of the Estonian National Museum. The competition was carried out on the basis of the requirements for the candidate for the Head of the State Museum, which is a state institution managed by the Ministry of Culture, and the procedure for conducting the public competition, and the contract of employment with the candidate has now won the competition. I would point out that this Regulation entered into force on 8 July 2013. This has been the case for all the current competitions of the heads of state museums under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. In the meantime, new leaders have been elected in addition to the Estonian National Museum, the Tartu Art Museum, the Estonian History Museum, the Palamuse Oskar Luts Kihelkonna School Museum, the Rannaroots Museum and the Estonian Theatre and Music Museum. On 29 September, I approved the following competition committee: Paavo Nõgene, Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, Tarvi Sits, Deputy Secretary General of Culture of the Ministry of Culture, Mirjam Rääb, Museum Adviser to the Ministry of Culture, Merju Künnapuu, Head of Finance Department of the Ministry of Culture, Sirje Helme, Member of the Board of the Estonian Art Museum of Foundation, Anton Pärn, Chairman of the Museum Council, Head of Foundation Haapsalu and Läänemaa Museums, and Aadu Must, Chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. In addition, I appointed Ellen Võri, the trade union trustee of the Estonian National Museum, as a member of the non-voting committee to advise the contest during the discussion round. I would like to draw attention to three points. Firstly, ERM falls within the remit of the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry has a responsibility to contribute to the development of the museum. It is therefore well founded that the competition committee was made up of specialists from the Ministry of Culture. Secondly, the members of the Commission made a consensual decision and were independent in doing so. Thirdly, your questioning is a misleading statement, as if there had been a 'wide-spread view that the members of the Commission were not free in their decision'. You can ask all the Members of the Commission here, including your colleague and the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Musta whether they were free to make their decision. In September 2013, Kadri Liik explained the principle of democracy led by Vikerkaar in the cultural journal as follows: the electoral process must be 'leaded' by the media landscape and by the skillful manipulation of political outspoken in such a way that it always gives the desired 'right' result. I can assure you that the election of this leader was open, transparent and followed the established procedure. If I would like to find attempts to manipulate the media landscape and the political field, there are obvious signs of this in your inquiry. By introducing a parallel with Yeltsin's so-called controlled democracy, you detest all the leaders of Estonian museums elected by decree of the Ministry of Culture, because you claim that their election has not been fair. The second question: 'How does the law and the conditions of competition respond to the fact that, if initially expected to become the elected head of the Estonian National Museum from 22 January 2018, the winner of the competition, Auditor General Alar Karis, agrees to take up the job only in April 2018? On what basis were the original terms of competition amended? " The Ministry of Culture always notes the date of entry into the competition notice according to the last day of the contract of employment ending. This is also the first day of 22 January 2018 for a new Head of ERM. Of course, we hope that the new leader will be able to take office on the day after the last working day of the previous leader. However, the date on which the candidate successfully entered into the competition depends on the negotiations between the Minister and the candidate. Situations in which an actress is appointed in the meantime still occur in life. Good ambassadors, you have nothing to worry about. During the period between 22 January and 9 April, ERM will not be left uncontrolled. Last week, we signed an employment contract with Rein Kinkar, the financial manager of the Estonian National Museum to carry out the Director's duties. By the way, a colleague sitting next to you can confirm this, when the Director of the Estonian National Museum, Krista Aru, resigned on 9 November 2012, performed the director's duties until Riina Reinvelt, the head treasurer, elected the new manager. So the analogy is obvious. At this point, I do not want to miss the opportunity to thank the previous leaders of ERM: Krista Aru for the great work he did in his own time, which will continue until January in Tõnis Luka. Your contribution to the development of the Estonian National Museum has been important. Also, thanks are due to all the other employees of ERM who have contributed to this work with a great sense of mission over the long years, often receiving questionable salaries. At least I am glad that next year we will take one big step forward, and I hope that this will not be the last year if the wages of cultural workers rise faster than the average wage in Estonia. But, of course, the most important thing right now is that the work of ERM can continue smoothly. For this to happen, we need to have a break from work. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U80	The round of questions for the minister will be opened by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The background to this issue is, in fact, wider than the competition of two highly respected persons for the position of Director of ERM. And I hope you won't be offended if I convey to one of the cultural peoples the popular notion that this Ministry, the Ministry of Culture, is led to a significant extent by Chancellor Paavo Nõgene, not by you. This is evidently due to his very important role in making various decisions. Well, it's a matter of thinking, if they're guided, if not, but it seems that in this case, it was a sure thing. In order to verify this statement, I ask you this: how many cultural institutions councils or competition committees will the Chancellor of the Ministry, Mr Nõgene, participate in the work? Try to read them to us. If there is a lack of time, you can also send them in writing, but would like a clear factual examination of whether or not there is concentration here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U82	Thank you. I'm sure I won't be offended. I'll take that as a compliment. The Ministry is known to be headed by the Chancellor; the Minister is the political leader. In order to ensure stability and continuity, the chancellor's post is invented. I am very pleased to tell you that the Ministry of Culture has a really good chancellor. That is why, some time ago, I proposed to this chancellor to continue working with the current Minister of Culture in his second term and, most likely, with the future Minister of Culture for at least some time. So your compliment that this is a very capable person has been accepted. But the question was, how is this chancellor formally represented compared to another chancellor? If we now go back in time and remember the time when Tõnis Lukas was elected head of ERM, or the previous competition that was announced, this competition committee was then chaired by Chancellor Siim Sukles. It was true that everyone knew that he was then the outgoing chancellor, so the future Chancellor Paavo Nõgene, or the present chancellor, had also been appointed to the Commission several months ago. And in the Commission, the Ministry officials had the same advantage. Perhaps, despite the fact that the current Chancellor is certainly a very capable leader, nothing has happened in the organisation of the cardinal competitions. The Chancellors have lived in many Soviets, not only in the Ministry of Culture, but mostly in all ministries, as well as in Paavo Nõgene, Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture. Can I remember them all by heart? I'm sure one of them is your own choice. In fact, the Riigikogu appointed him to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. It was a decision of the Riigikogu. But I have signed the decrees to appoint Chancellor Paavo Nõgene to the board of the Estonian Film Institute, the Estonian Drama Theatre Foundation to the council of the Vanemuine Foundation. I'm sorry, I have to say Monday night at 5:00, but I can't remember any more. There should be something else, but I will answer in writing, as you kindly offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U83	Recently Paavo Nõgene was also on the Estonian Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U84	Yes, in the Estonian Concert Council, he is also sure to be, but I will send a complete list in writing to the respected MP.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U85	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U86	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I know you were not a Member of the Commission yourself, but colleagues from the Commission probably shared their motives with you. What were the main strengths of the selected candidate's programme and the substantive reasons why Mr Karis was preferred?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U87	Thank you! Since I really was not in the Commission, I can briefly summarise how the motivation of the Commission's decision was summed up for me. This was the case: Karise's vision of the future development of the museum was clear and purposeful and based on the objectives of the museum's development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U88	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thanks for the answers. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U89	Mr. Vice President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, there are few Members left in the Chamber. This competition made a pretty good impression on the public, and I believe that the Minister is actually familiar with the public view of why it had to go like this. I think these reasons were highlighted in this inquiry. First of all, the fact that the competition committee was not balanced. You pointed out that the last time, too, this committee was Chancellor-centred, but in fact there was not such a decisive majority at the time that four of the seven members were Chancellor and his three subordinates. Last time, if I remember correctly, there were just more members of this committee. The Estonian National Museum is certainly not an ordinary museum, and the transparency of such a competition is a very important value, the following of which did not work out well in this competition. The second issue is changing the rules of competition. Andres Ammas also asked a written question and finally got those original terms in black in white. It turns out that the 22nd of January was said to be the day of work. However, the Auditor General in office would not have been able to start working on this date even if he wanted to, which is why there was in fact a distortion of the conditions of the competition and a change in the course of the so-called half, which does not make a very good impression. The saddest result is certainly for Mr Karis. He came across a situation where the public was rather aware that the decision had been run away before it was certain that he would win this competition, and that you would probably not be able to disprove it in front of us with any means. This was indeed the way it seemed and was quite frustrated by the reaction of the public in various publications and in various forms of self-expression. So this is not very good luggage for the future director of ERM, both the respected person and he is in Estonia, to start work. Now, from this question I have asked you about Mr Nõges' omnipotence and belonging to a very large number of councils. Indeed, there are many of them, and I myself, frankly, did not look after them well when the Minister draws up this review. As for this, however, it turned out that you yourself decided to belong to the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, as I recall, this was not a unanimous decision made in the Riigikogu. And, in my understanding, this actually affects the balance and independence of the various levels of power in this Council. I myself was a member of the Broadcasting Council, and then it didn't occur to anyone that there could be a Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, or an official at all, in this council. However, I recall another form of led democracy. When we were dealing with the competition of the head of the ERR, it also seemed that the chancellor of the Ministry of Culture was moving in the direction of seriously running for the head of the ERR. Looking aside, I got the impression that he didn't do it for one reason only. Because the ERR Council was not a controlled democracy, that is, it was not possible to'managate' this decision before. There were independent people in the Council, and none of those who eventually applied could know in advance what the outcome would be. So Mr Saare and I, with whom we have been in the same house of democracy, as the ENPA was called at some time, can have a great deal of discussion about the democracy that has been run. It is not necessary to quote Kadri Liik or to address Yeltsin's former advisers. But this image has been used in the interrogation precisely because this whole process made a bad impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U90	There are no more words. The Minister has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U91	Thank you. I would also like to thank Andres Herkel for his comments. I would point out that there were five officials of the Ministry of Culture and four people who could not be appointed official of the Ministry of Culture, and this time there were four officials of the Ministry of Culture and three people who could not be appointed official of the Ministry of Culture. So there is no meaningful difference here. When we are talking about changing the conditions on the move, here you are, a good colleague, simply deliberately interfering with water. You understand very well that there is a discretion given to the Minister as to when it is most appropriate to conclude the contract. And in the case of any candidates, the result may be that they do not start working immediately or that they are unable to start working earlier and have a certain transition period. This was actually the case when the previous leader started working. I'm quoting the Postman here. It was supposed to be the end of 2012 when it was asked whether it was now agreed when a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Lukas, would become Director of ERM Tõnis Lukas. Tõnis Lukas answered this: 'It certainly will not happen this year, which I am still going to be a narcissus, and at the end of the year the museum will have a calmer time. Some things need to be closed in the work of the Riigikogu, I will definitely chair the Committee on the Environment for a few more weeks. ' I think that the office of Auditor General is at least as respectable as the administration of the Committee on the Environment in the Riigikogu and it makes every sense that people are allowed to complete this work peacefully, because there is no crisis in ERM. The ERM is working very well, as it has been for years. In response to these endless suspicions you're trying to sow, I want to quote once again the outgoing leader. He answered, among other things, in the same article, the question that you answer to those people who suspect that your election was based on a political agreement: 'The composition of the Commission is very dignified and completely neutral. [I drew attention to the composition of the Commission at that time, which had virtually no distinction compared to this time. I. S.] Let us ask whether the Commission would have taken a different decision if there were social democrats in power. I don't think so. It is humiliating for the Commission when it talks about agreements of some kind. " What prophetic words! I am delighted that the Free Party Group will contribute to ensuring that the ERM continues to work in peace and that people can continue to work with their very large mission in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U92	Thank you to the debaters. There were good questions in this debate, as well as good answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-04_U93	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. That's not what you want. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.19 p.m.
