ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, at the time and on the agenda requested by 56 members of the Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U2	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, the draft law amending the law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property. This is a bill that limits the possibilities for foreigners to acquire land and forest in Estonia and prohibits it from any third-country person. I would stress that this draft does not conflict with European Union law, but imposes restrictive conditions. For example, the person acquiring forest or land must personally prove his or her wish to buy in Estonian. He must have lived here for five years (localism) or, if he is a legal person, he must have been resident for tax purposes in Estonia for five years. There are still a number of such conditions, for a very simple reason. Already in Estonia, according to different estimates, 12% to 15% of rural income is owned by non-Estonians, or foreigners, and this process continues and is accelerating. When we restored the Republic of Estonia, a property reform was carried out, one of the great goals of which was that Estonians be masters on their own land. This situation needs to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U3	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U4	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group, I present an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on the creation of equal opportunities for Estonian children in education. A few weeks ago, we discussed the report on human development in Estonia in this Chamber. Today's Postimees also mentions that our education system should be unified. Nevertheless, on the initiative of the City Council of Tallinn, the issue of whether to satisfy the three schools' request to switch to Russian-language education has been put on the agenda tomorrow. Consequently, we have submitted an inquiry to the government to find out whether the government will accept these requests and, if so, what are the arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U5	Aivar Rahno, representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U6	Honourable Chairman and Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act. The Government is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm when this draft is being processed. And secondly, the draft law on road transport. The Government is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with this draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U7	I have adopted three draft laws and one inquiry, which we deal with in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present. Honourable Riigikogu! Pursuant to § 52 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Riigikogu establishes an extraordinary session by a majority of the working time. I vote on the proposal of the Riigikogu's board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 1.30 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of establishing a timetable in this form, no one opposed, 14 abstentions. Timeline is in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U8	Let's get to the agenda. First, the third reading of the draft law amending the Insurance Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 427. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft 427; there was no one against, with 4 abstentions. The Act amending the Savings Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U9	Our next item is the third reading of draft law 454 on simplified taxation of business income initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on simplified taxation of business income, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 454. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft 454, there was no one against, with one abstention. The Act on simplified taxation of business income has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U10	Our next item is the third reading of the Bill 457 on the Tax on Sweet Drinks, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U11	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Nothing has changed with this draft between second and third readings. The key issue that we repeatedly raised and questioned here at second reading was how, after all, the impact of these small groups of sodas, which account for only 5 to 8% of sugar consumption and only 1.5% of calorie consumption, can still be so great. The second question, which was also repeatedly asked at second reading, related to the application for State aid when things were changed here at the last moment before the second reading. We had been promised not only by the mouth of the previous Minister of Finance, Siser, in this large Chamber and repeatedly, but also in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the text of the application for State aid would be forwarded to the Committee on Monetary Affairs by 16 June at the latest, but this did not happen. There was only a message that this application was intended for official use, which no one spoke about before. And last week, when I wanted to sign the confidentiality rules to get to know it, it still couldn't be done. So the draft is now going to the final vote, although we have a number of unanswered questions, including on the application for State aid. Look, it's very important that we know what it says. The scheme provides for a description of how this measure will contribute to achieving the objectives set by the new tax: whether this measure confers an advantage on undertakings and, if so, on which undertakings, whether it is available to all or only to a limited number of undertakings and how it affects competition in general. There are a lot of questions that the state must explain when it goes out to apply for such an exception. But we do not know why this new tax is justified and what are the grounds, reasons and conditions for requesting an exemption. We support the idea that promoting people's healthy behaviour and informing them is very important, but the tax is certainly not the measure that solves these issues. To change people's behaviour, much more is needed than a new tax, let alone a tax that has only a budget gap as its main objective. In particular, there is a need to raise people's awareness, encourage them to eat and move healthily and improve product labelling. I would like to emphasise here once again that this is a tax that will be extremely costly to implement, not only for the public sector, but also for businesses. This tax will create new bureaucracy and non-productive jobs in the public sector and will lose productive jobs in the food and drink industry. It should also be stressed that, in fact, producers have reduced the sugar content of products by more than 12% over the last 17 years. And the voluntary target of a further 10% reduction in sugar by 2020 has been set. In short, the draft, which has no impact on people's healthy behaviour and which leads to additional tax burden and administrative costs, creates new bureaucracy, is contrary to European Union law and significantly undermines the competitiveness of Estonian entrepreneurs. The faction of the Reform Party can certainly not support the adoption of this draft as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U12	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U13	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We must agree with what the previous speaker has just said that this time between second and third readings was also very short, because it was not until last Wednesday that we had long talks, but nothing has changed. If I were a school dad, I could, of course, say that it's nice, repeating is the mother of wisdom, and we'll talk again, maybe we'll remember, but there's no hope of that right now. I very briefly mention eight reasons why the Free Party Group cannot in any way support this bill, i.e. the law on sweetened taxes. The first reason is that we are talking about the argument of public health protection in a big and resounding way, but it is a bit hypocritical, because, as the previous speaker said, the actual effect of sweetened drinks on human health is marginal. In that case, we should also talk about other groups of products, be they sweets or bakery products, which have just as little effect on public health. So the effect of these drinks is marginal and the health target set is not achievable. Secondly, this draft is a collection of funds by the Government of the Republic and the Coalition to cover their electoral promises. This is a measure that simply requires the coalition's promises to be honoured by the Treasury. It would also be fair to say that we are doing this because we need tens of millions of euros. Thirdly, members of the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs and taxpayers have repeatedly drawn attention to the culture of inclusion. We have all said that making such large-scale changes at this rate and with such a culture of inclusion directly undermines the economic and legal environment of Estonia. Fourthly, we have found a new tax object between the first and third readings again. How can this be described differently from the government's suspension? In the fear that we will be fined for the infringement, we will quickly add milk-based drinks to the sweetened drinks and say that we will tax them as well. Fifth, without assessing the impact of this new tax object. It is said that there is a target of 15 to 18 million for sweetened beverages. When asked how much the government expects to receive additional income from sweetened milk drinks, it is said that this has not been calculated. No one really knows that. Then why are we doing this? I would like to ask you very clearly. Sixthly, tax increases inevitably put pressure on the secret market and cross-border trade in all areas of activity. Such pressure also arises in the taxation of sweetened beverages. It is already clear that border trade is a systemic problem: the more we add to these product groups, the more this problem will expand, become wider and will inevitably have a socio-economic impact. Seventhly, what I touched for a moment, perhaps haste and effect. After all, it has not been analysed what costs the application of the law will entail for businesses and whether the benefits are proportionate. What we know is that the Tax and Customs Board needs to undergo in-depth restructuring, and already IT procurement costs EUR 1 million. The previous speaker also addressed the issue of the application for State aid. It wasn't available to us before we decided. Eighthly, bad regulation: target groups are not involved, the intention to develop has not been drawn up, the impact analysis has not been carried out and the tax rates have been derived purely from the expectations of the state budget. There is nothing left to do with this draft but repeat what was said last week: this draft is an example of bad legislation, where the committee responsible has not even considered it important to involve other committees. As a result, the Free Party Group cannot support this draft in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U14	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U15	Honourable Riigikogu! Now, speaking of this bill, you could say that the less sweetened the drinks, the healthier the children we have. The central objective of this draft is still to decisively reduce the number of overweight children. The overweight of our children and young people and the health problems they cause have been dealt with for a long time, but the problems have not gone away. A considerable number of school students are still obese or overweight. More effective solutions are therefore needed, including changes in tax policy. Of course, tax policy alone is not helping here; reducing sugar consumption must be combated in a complex way, because it is the only way to achieve tangible results. However, this taxation also contributes in some way. It is very clear that, in addition to the price, better communication will also affect people to consume healthier. Tastes can be changed by gradually switching to healthier recipes by reducing sugar content in beverages. When we look at the studies, they have been done: 50% and more schoolchildren consume sugar-sweetened drinks every day. Often it is not understood that half a liter of lemonade or energy drink contains 50 to 56 grams of sugar. It is safe to say that if this bill is adopted as a law, the burden on the health insurance fund will also be reduced. I suggest you all read an article in the June Wallpaper, "How can you reason to avoid getting caught in the evolutionary cogs? An interview with Wind Sepa. ' It is clear here that consumption of excess sugar has spread gradually, and we could all consume less sugar. So let's start with the sugar from the sweetened drinks. I believe that in time we will also have fewer overweight children and fewer adults. When we look at the current picture, the discussions are already under way. It has become clear to parents that it is wise for a child to say that we are not buying lemonade or coke today, drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U16	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the bill 457 on the tax on sweetened beverages initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The draft 457 voted in favour 52 and there were 37 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The Sweet Drink Tax Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U17	The following is the third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 458. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U18	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U19	Quiet, please! Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U20	This is an extremely unfortunate bill. Unhappy in every aspect, looking at what is in it and how its procedure has taken place. The process was unheard of as a failure, since things that could have been dealt with completely separately were compressed. Let me remind you, last week we voted here several times on draft traffic laws, all of which dealt with different issues. We could also divide this draft into parts and discuss them in substance, so that everyone could understand what we are talking about and whether these things are basically good or not. This bill is extremely confusing. There are some good ideas inside that I would like to vote for. For example, the lower tax rate for permanent dividends proposed by the economic development working group in the previous government, of which it was an honour for me to be a member, too. Changes in the taxation of options can also be commended. But there are things in this bill that can't be accepted in any way. Pawn tax became the taxation of loans at one point. The so-called ordinary taxation of profits, in particular the introduction of a different system for banks, is sneaking in. We do not know at what point there may be another sector that the current ruling coalition does not like very much. It was very ugly how the draft procedure took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, i.e. hurriedly, constantly changing something. So in the meantime, I couldn't figure out what they were doing, where they were going, what the government was thinking. It was not until the evening of last Tuesday that the bill took its shape, and on Wednesday we had to discuss it here at second reading. And this debate was, I would say, non-existent, because the representative from the Commission did not know anything and did not want to talk about it. It is clear that no good can come from such a procedure. We may be able to talk about this in this Chamber, but I will pick up and quote the entrepreneurs, or those who will have to live with these taxes. The assessment is destructive, the following quotations: short-sighted; populist one-day decisions; helpless whacking; pointless twitching; no tax policy; the government's tax policy is based on the work 'Strange mulk', which is included in the compulsory literature of the primary school; the lack of clarity of purpose in the long term; raising money from one pocket to another, sometimes not even knowing where to take it from; acting only to be in power; constant tax breaks that cause confusion and uncertainty, leave the government not to know what it wants or plans; etc. You can read all this from Business Day and some other newspaper. Suddenly, the government could have been honest in its actions and goals. I would have introduced progressive income tax, not the crap that came to us at the end of last year. It would have introduced corporate tax and abolished the income tax exemption on investments. It might have been fair to say that they believe that more money must be redistributed in Estonian society: those who earn a little more or are more enterprising must take away the money and distribute it to those who have lower incomes or to those who scream more or to those who are their political supporters. One could be honest and say that we have a left-wing government that wants to become'socialist'. That is what one Minister's advisor said was more socialist (in Russian media, by the way, not in Estonian). But the left side does not have the support of the people, because there is a party in the government, which is like right-wing, even conservative. It's like I'm saying, because there's really left-wing politics. This is, in essence, a very clearly left-wing policy. Bad law, bad lawmaking, bad thoughts, therefore the Reform Party Group does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U21	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U22	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to convince the government coalition from this remote point of view, to suggest, to ask: take time off, think again! These recommendations have not been heard from us or from other groups. I don't know how else to comment on it, except that the elephant has really stepped on this government. There is little political hearing. Speeding and raping, which have rightly sounded in the complaints of businesses and interest groups in a number of other drafts, are also obvious in this draft. In a sense, this bill is the coalition's entire current tax policy, or would it be more correct to say tax losses? "Expression." It's chaotic, sometimes absurd and cloudy. It's like, you know, the kids' toy, the kaleidoscope, that if you shake, you get another result. The new chairman of the IRL, Helir-Valdor Seeder, came in, shook this Kaleidoscope a little bit and the picture became different. I don't know, maybe this picture's gonna be different this year. The local elections are coming, which might force this Kaleidoscope to shake. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the custom of the Socialist leader to become active in the summer and come up with new crunchy thoughts. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. So we do not know whether we are discussing the principles of income tax in this Chamber for the last time for a while or whether we will be coming back to them very soon. This bill has ideas like mush and cabbages mixed up. Here are the sensible, wise and necessary ideas that my colleague, Mr Lauri, has already pointed out. Here are the technical nuances that long awaited a change and repair. But there are also seemingly good solutions, such as the restoration of joint declarations, which are in fact not in the form that the public and voters expect in the draft, but in incomplete form. And here's some pretty fancy ideas, I'd say, pretty greedy and sneaky ideas that just want to fill the state budget. The Free Party Group has previously said that we cannot support the draft in this form, and we are voting against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U23	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U24	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, It's basically all said here. My colleague from the Free Party has more or less counted the good and the mistakes that accompany this matter. It's basically clear. It can't be that we're here to pick up some Brezhnev packages. One book is, like it used to be, in a package, "Little Land," and the other one is a top piece of some world classic. Thank you for this Brezhnev package. It's probably specific to you, who look east rather than west, even though you look west, but in the wrong direction. What am I going to say briefly? I'm not even asking for more time. One of the leading politicians has been talking about him closing himself in a dark room to finger the beads. The result is depressing. Not even close to what one meditation and enlightenment should bring. And I have long since come to an end with the Bible truth: "Whoever the Lord wants to punish, he will first take his mind away from it. " Here, too, there is a lack of a clear mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U25	In these circumstances, I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 458. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 458 and against 36 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U26	And now the Government of the Republic has initiated the law amending the State Budget Act by the third reading of 456. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U27	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am authorized to state on behalf of the Free Party that we will not support this draft under any circumstances. If there is any point in amending the State Budget Act, it must be amended in order to improve the role of the Riigikogu in the process of processing the state budget. He needs to be given more opportunities here, even if he loses this stupid pent-money institution and replaces it, if possible, with polite amendments. Something is needed that will improve our role in the state budget process and make it visibly dignified. This was mentioned here in the Kristjan Kõljala report. A year ago, when he presented it, it was also said that immediately these changes would come from the Ministry of Finance. Obviously, we never dreamed that it would take such a turn that the main and only content of these changes was to enable the deficit in the state budget to be brought to bear, both at the expense of previous governments and at the expense of the future. Such short-term benefits, I understand, unfortunately consider the parties looking to the left to be natural. But it is very difficult to understand why the IRL, who has spoken about bringing the principle of budgetary balance into the Constitution, has come with it. I recently had to move in this house and found an old postcard with two distinguished men on it. This is Tunne Kelam and Mart Laar. They have the slogan 'The right decisions in difficult times! '. This was a campaign for elections to the European Parliament, which I believe took place in 2004. And I really want to wish these very right decisions to the IRL ambassadors here today. You must vote against this bill, then you will maintain consistency with your party's previous positions. We cannot allow loose fiscal policies. Although times may not be so difficult now, it is necessary to make the right decisions to prevent us from becoming difficult in the future and then have the necessary margin of strength. We may have questions about the deficit of the state budget or about emergency measures if the European Union's support money remains smaller, but this is definitely not the time. Also, at second reading, the President of the Riigikogu, behind me, did not say that we really did not know when they would actually be implemented by adopting the legal provisions. However, because of the country's budgetary strategy, we know that the big minus is planned for the next and the next year. Therefore, this law is linked to the irresponsible budgetary policy of the government and we are very clearly opposed to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U28	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike the previous speaker, I do not think it matters who screws up the budget, either the Riigikogu or the government. The probability that this will happen in the Riigikogu has so far been much greater. Given the conflicting interests, I am in favour of the executive being responsible for its basic document itself. So far, it wasn't a problem. But this is definitely the dirtiest bill in recent years that has come from the government. Such a bad law has probably not been passed here in the Riigikogu for very long years. It is extremely regrettable that it is presented by an institution which should be responsible for ensuring that costs and revenues are linked and that the best possible decisions are taken. This is the 51 vote bill, and this is a question that has been wanted to be written into the Constitution. The same IRL has wanted to write it into the Constitution. The European Union has also decided that it is written either in the Constitution or in the Constitutional Law that national budgets must be balanced. All the other aspects of this draft are, in any case, fifth-rate compared to the rule that a sitting government has to spend and others have to cut down on the fact that a sitting government has to spend too much time, i.e. going into a structural disadvantage. The fact that it spends more than its own weight is acknowledged by the law itself because it provides for over-exploited spending for three years and then for the obligation to cut the budget for the next governments. The obligation to cut is inevitable because it has been spent beyond force. The next governments have a very tough task of cutting the budget in a situation where euro money is disappearing and the temporary economic boom that has now begun in Europe is likely to have ended. The government is basically still numbing, talking again on the weekend about how the government is reviving the economy and getting it going, as really was said in Brezhnev. Congratulations on that, IRL! The economy is, in fact, driven by petrol steam, because it is growing very much. Over 4% is a very high growth in the current economic environment. Inflation is the highest in Europe, above optimal 3.5%. All of this shows that the talk of economic recovery is inadequate. The current account has gone to a disadvantage that is not unnatural if we are attractive to investments. But if this is simply the result of spending the government, of spending money, then it is actually against the interests of the economy. The worst part is that we have overheated the labour market. We don't have any more vacancies. We have difficulties in launching new projects and transferring resources to more productive branches. Stupid money, and here it's stupid money pouring into the economy only deepens all the heat signs that are coming up, despite the fact that the government's decisions have not yet come into force. A small country, especially a poorer country, must be smarter than the average. Credit rating agencies will never give us the maximum rating either, because we are not reliable because of our small size, volatility and poverty. We can't handle all the risks. The only way to hedge risks is actually to be financially better than the others. We are now falling among the worst European countries. We make the most of our opportunities and make structurally extraordinarily stupid decisions. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U30	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U31	We are going to fall to the bottom of Europe in budgetary terms. The government is talking nonsense not only about economic recovery, but it is also going against itself. Half a percent of current budgetary plans are probably not the limit that can deliver on their promises. This has been said by the Board of Budgets, and this is also demonstrated by the fresh bank forecast, which foresees that our budget will fall into a structural deficit of 1.1%, not 0.5%. The promise-oriented government will certainly not be able to cope with the cuts that we have seen. A separate topic is, of course, this draft case of Sven Sester and IRL. A man who has come among us with great joy, face-to-face, like he's ordering the seventh beer, full of his own words. He spoke here of avoiding temptations before he became a new government. He was talking about how this law will establish new rules of the game, that we will now play by other rules. Quotes date from 2011, 2012 and 2013. He's been very proud of how he's actually the one who keeps the finances in order. And as soon as he managed to get into a new government, everything disappeared. Then he was chairman of the plan committee, who shared funds and limits, and decided how much the economy would grow, being proud here as well. It's terribly sad. And what's terribly sad is that there hasn't been any repentance at the IRL. With a similar attitude, Thomas Tõniste has come into office. It's exactly the same attitude that Helir-Valdor Seeder has. The current government, which goes down in history by breaking up budgets and finances, is being approved. All these tax changes are köki-möki compared to what is the meaning of this law. But the idea of this law is particularly bad in a situation where we have also made bad tax laws, which we are already dependent on, which we cannot get rid of and which make it even more difficult to improve our budgetary situation. So, in fact, Sven Sester should resign from politics at all. He is the one who will continue to figure out all the papers as the person who has been led by fateful decisions that will force the next governments to correct mistakes and bring our reputation to the bottom. I'm glad there's Margus Tsahkna, who's an accomplice. He should not be in this Chamber, either, after what he has brought to politics as an innovation, as a break in this so-called stagnation. It's a sad day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U32	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, please let us check the presence! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law amending the State Budget Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 456. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 456 and 38 were against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the State Budget Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U33	Third reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] I am voting on the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 452. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 452 and 7 were against, with no abstentions. The Law amending the Fishing Act and the Environmental Charges Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U34	Third reading of draft Act 415 on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 415 on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The draft 415 was for 78 and 7 members of the Riigikogu were against, with one abstention. The Act on Environmental Impact Assessment and the Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U35	Third reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 462. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 462. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 462, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Atmosphere Air Protection Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U36	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Nature Conservation Act (Implementing the Nagoya Protocol) initiated by the Government of the Republic 444. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (Implementing the Nagoya Protocol) 444. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 444 and 6 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Law on Nature Conservation has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U37	Third reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations here either; we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic, 463. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 463 and 6 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Radiation Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U38	The third reading of the draft law amending the Act on atmospheric air protection and the General Part of the Environmental Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate here either. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the general part of the environmental code. Please take a stand and vote. There were 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 464 and 6 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Atmosphere Air Protection Act and the General Part of the Environmental Code Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U39	Our 12th item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Environmental Monitoring, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 443. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 443 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Environmental Monitoring Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U40	Third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act 416 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations, but I don't want to negotiate. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act 416. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 416 and 1 member of the Riigikogu against, with 5 abstentions. The Act amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U41	Third reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Here, too, there is no wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 455. Please take a stand and vote. The result of the vote is this: in favour of 81 members of the Riigikogu, there were no respondents and there were no abstentions. Consequently, the Act amending the State Assets Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U42	Second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica Railway Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia 449 initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will give you a brief overview of the procedure of the Committee on Economic Affairs between first and second readings. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May. The first reading took place on 17 May and, by 31 May, five amendments to the draft were received, two of which were identical. During the draft procedure, several citizens and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises addressed the Commission. The Commission was given an opinion on the agreement to be ratified by the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice. Before adopting the draft procedure, the Commission had dealt with two collective appeals on the subject of Rail Baltica, during which the members of the committee had the opportunity to examine in detail all the arguments for and against the draft proposal. The parties who made their views known to the Commission were allowed to attend a meeting of the Commission so that they could present and justify their views. The amendments received were discussed by the commission on 7 June in a working group of the Commission, where specialists from the National Audit Office and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice were also involved, in addition to the representatives of the initiator of the bill from the MKM. The text of the draft was editorially edited between the two readings. All the opinions received on the draft and the minutes of committee meetings are available in full on the Riigikogu website. During the period between first and second reading, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at its two meetings. On 29 May, the Riigikogu held a joint session of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Economic Committee, where the National Audit Office presented its own material, i.e. an overview of the agreement on the development of the Rail Baltic railway connection of the Estonian, Lithuanian and Latvian Governments, and a discussion was also held. The meeting was attended by Mr Ahti King, Deputy Chancellor of Transport of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Coordinator of the Rail Baltic project Kristjan Kaunissaare, Adviser to the Deputy Chancellor of Transport of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Anti Moppel, Adviser to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Peeter Kadarik, Deputy Secretary-General of the Budget Policy of the Ministry of Finance Kaie Koskaru-Nelk, Adviser to the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Mari Lahtmets, Adviser to the European Department of Foreign Affairs Piret Nõmmela, Director of the First Office of the Legal Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Peter Pedak, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Assistant to the Chancellor of Justice Olari Koppel, Head of the Department of the Business Environment of the Office of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Evelin Lopman, Head of Communication of the Office of the Legal Chancellor Janek Luts, State Auditor Alar Karis, Head of the Performance Audit Department of the National Audit Office of Audit Department of the National Audit Office, Tarmo Olgo, Audit Director of the National Audit Office Kaire Kuldpere and Head of Communication Toomas Mattson. Auditor General of the Performance Audit Department of the National Audit Office Tarmo Olgo spoke about what the National Audit Office found during its review and about the recommendations made. The implementation and subsequent management of the Rail Baltic project will lead to many legal relationships that will give rise to rights and obligations. The first round of legal relations arises in Estonia with the European Union. The main sources are the TEN-T Regulation, which provides guidance for the development of the trans-European infrastructure network, and the CEF Regulation, the Connecting Europe Facility developed to finance it. The TEN-T Regulation gives rise to the obligation to establish the Rail Baltic high-speed line on the route to Tallinn The Regulation does not impose sanctions on Member States that do not comply with the requirements. The CEF Regulation does not regulate the construction of Rail Baltic; it regulates the financing of the rail network provided for in the TEN-T Regulation. Estonia has committed to co-financing projects and activities by means of financing agreements. The second round of legal relations arises between the coordinator of the Estonian and Rail Baltic development project, RB Rail AS, an international company located in Riga. The legal basis for these relations is agreements concluded between shareholders. There are no direct obligations for Estonia from this company agreement, as Estonia is not a shareholder of RB Rail AS. The shareholder is a subsidiary company owned by the Estonian state and these legal relationships are governed by Latvian law. Thirdly, by ratifying the agreement to be submitted to the Riigikogu, Estonia undertakes to build a railway line with a new track gauge on its territory. Latvia and Lithuania also make the same commitment. This agreement does not change or end the commitments made to the European Union, just as Estonia continues to be obliged under the TEN-T regulation to build the Rail Baltic railway line. The National Audit Office does not make recommendations in its review as to whether the agreement should be ratified or not, but sets out the consequences if the agreement is not ratified. Firstly, there is an increased risk that some Baltic countries will not build Rail Baltic. Secondly, the legal consequences of the CEF agreements and the TEN-T Regulation may follow. In the case of CEF contracts, it is not possible to state clearly what will happen if a Member State decides to abandon the project. In such a case, the European Commission has a wide margin of discretion. Thirdly, failure to ratify the agreement could reduce the possibility for the Baltic States to receive funding in the future. The risk is also that there has been no draft submitted to the Riigikogu to answer the question of how much commitment the state will be made. The information provided is contradictory and the draft does not comply with the technical requirements. The explanatory memorandum mentions the need for basic public funding. The Riigikogu could set a ceiling on financial obligations. Analysis has shown that large infrastructure projects are becoming more expensive than expected and are taking longer than planned. The European Court of Auditors' report also confirmed that projects are becoming more expensive. Furthermore, there is no mechanism in the agreement for how the parties should behave. If the funding is reduced, the agreement gives two options: the parties may require the agreement to be amended or withdrawn. What matters here is the words'significant reduction'. According to the National Audit Office, the use of a withdrawal clause is unpredictable, as any party may define this importance differently. It must be understood that such a project will gradually become more expensive, with any additional work that will be accepted. If the procurement or the construction contract becomes more expensive, the funding will not increase and the state will have to pay for it from the state budget. Estonia does not organise many major procurements. The question therefore arises as to who has the right to accept a more expensive procurement than envisaged. Is that RB Rail AS, Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or Riigikogu? If this right is available to the Riigikogu, the permit is asked before or after. The project lasts nine years and the next two members of the Riigikogu are in contact with this project. Given the scale, risks and duration of the project, the National Audit Office recommends that different authorities communicate with each other. Ülle Madise said that when adopting the draft as a law, the treaty to be ratified does not impose an important financial obligation on Estonia and does not transfer the right to take decisions to other countries. This agreement is regarded as an agreement of the common intentions of the three countries. The Riigikogu should, however, be attentive to the realisation of this project. He explained that the obligation to co-finance the project stems from other contracts concluded at government level. Agreements on the use of EU grants are not external agreements. Madise added a recommendation that the following agreements, which take on important financial obligations for Estonia, should be monitored more closely. More broadly, we could discuss what the mechanism for involving the Riigikogu should be when it comes to 'euro money' and co-financing. Tarmo Olgo explained that CEF1 was concluded in 2015 and CEF2 in 2016. An application has also been made for the conclusion of the following financial arrangements (CEF3). The CEF agreement does not give Estonia a direct obligation that Rail Baltic must be built from Tallinn to the Polish border. The question was asked about the budgetary strategy of the state and how the obligation to take action and the limitation of the role of the Riigikogu are compatible. It was also asked whether the National Audit Office has established that the state's budget strategy has written about Rail Baltic and whether the risks have been grounded. Kaie Koskaru-Nelk, representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained that Rail Baltic funds are planned in the strategy and visible in the state budget. Currently, the project as a whole is not covered, but next year's strategy reflects the whole project. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget aims to highlight longer-term investments, which are currently planned. The annual state budget reflects all decisions made on different laws. Tarmo Olgo explained that the CEF Regulation has identified the obligations of the State which the State has promised to finance itself. He added that it is not clear whether the construction of Rail Baltic will be taken into account in the balance sheet of the state or in the balance sheet of the subsidiary of the Estonian state. If first, expenditure is foreseen in the state budget; second, the State may co-finance through capital contributions. Alar Karis explained that procurement could make things more expensive. He also said that they wanted the risks presented in the review to be mitigated and that Members would have a mechanism to intervene in the project. Jürgen Ligi asked about the balance problem. Kaie Koskaru-Nelk explained that the cost of writing goes directly to the position, but the financing transaction does not go. Toomas Kivimägi explained that the conclusion of the E&Y study is that the infrastructure is self-effective in the long term, but four to five years each country will have to pay when the railway is ready. We're talking infrastructure that needs to be paid for. According to the profitability study, no charges are foreseen for carriers. There was also a question of the amount of budget expenditure. Toomas Kivimägi replied that for the first four to five years Estonia has to pay two million circa each year. Toomas Kivimägi pointed out that the task of the Riigikogu is either to ratify the agreement or not. It is important to stress that this agreement does not change any of the commitments made to the European Union and does not add anything. Rather, it is a protocol of intent common to three countries. If the agreement is not ratified, it will have legal consequences under the TEN-T Regulation. The argument of waiver cannot be that it does not know what the next period of EU funding will be. Tarmo Olgo said that it must be taken into account that the European Union is currently not giving any mandate for the next period. With the CEF agreements, with these agreements, the situation is more complicated than that of the State, the Commission may take the view that no recovery is required. The reasoning has not been established; the Commission can take different decisions. The Commission can assess whether the objectives for which the money was requested have been achieved. Mr Metsoja explained that the Cohesion Fund has provided funds with a clear objective and that each new project takes risks. March Sults asked how we could make sure we didn't pay more than we agreed. The King of Ahti confirmed that the new study includes a section between Kaunas and Vilnius. Henn Põllaas said that the Riigikogu has been excluded from the process, because so far it is not known what the real cost of the project and the financial obligation of Estonia are. Alar Karis added that one of the proposals was that the government should carry out an analysis of the increase in the cost of the project and its duration is longer than the funding period, because then the risk points are known. On 13 June a debate was held on the draft before sending it to second reading when the amendments were examined. Mr Ahti King, Deputy Secretary-General of Transport of MKM, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, Ave Henberg, and Andres Lindemann, Chief Specialist of the Transport Development and Investment Department, as well as Karli Lambot, a citizen who addressed the Committee on Economic Affairs, were invited to the meeting of the Commission. Karli Lambot took stock of his main points of view. The King of Ahti said that MKM would answer the questions asked by Priit Humalog, Karli Lambot, Illimar Pau and Raul Vibo, but the answer is not yet ready because the request was sent to MKM until Thursday. The analysis of the study would make sense in cooperation with Ernst & Young. There are contradictions in the arguments put forward in the query. For example, it is said that Rail Baltic uses less fuel than calculated, which means that excise duty will also be less. However, the second point states that the negative environmental impact is higher than calculated, which should mean higher fuel consumption. Tarmo Kruusimäe thought that it was not always reasonable to include individual indicators in the studies, the project should be viewed as a whole. Karli Lambot said that Ernst & Young's analysis took different environmental impacts into account, but in his presentation he wanted to focus only on the main errors. Mr Põldaru asked why Ernst & Young had used the figures of trucks complying with the EURO II emission standard in its analysis. Such trucks have no longer been produced in Europe in this century. Ahti King confirmed that MKM would answer all the questions asked. A procedural decision was also taken at the meeting of the committee: if the draft is placed on the agenda of the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading, the final vote on the draft should also be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U44	Questions for the waitress. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U45	Thank you. Rail Baltic is definitely necessary for the Estonian economy, the Estonian tourism and logistics sector, but also wider, i.e. geopolitically. However, this does not mean that impact assessments should not be thorough and all questions answered. This Commission protocol, which you read so diligently, also gave the impression that some questions were still left unanswered, because they arrived at the very last minute. We're talking about a meeting on 13 June that said MKM has no answers yet. My first question is whether, by today, 19 June, exhaustive answers have been received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that all analyses are accurate and impact assessments exist so that we do not make a hasty or stupid decision here today. I ask for an exhaustive answer to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U46	Thank you. The Minister also replied here in the last Question Time that all studies were carried out in accordance with the rules laid down by the European Commission. And the MKM did not really have an answer to that question because the appeal came a few moments before the beginning of the sitting. Ernst & Young has not given a comprehensive answer today, but I think all the important questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U47	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U48	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! However, please specify once again what role will remain after today's decision whether or not to ratify the agreement, both the current, the next and the next Riigikogu membership in the whole process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U49	Thank you. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to complete this draft and to add that the government, together with the state budget, must also provide a list of the items to be built next year and plan their funding. The Riigikogu will then have the opportunity to monitor and specify it. In addition, the representative of either RB Rail or MKM must visit the Economic Commission each year and give an overview of the progress of the whole project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U50	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U51	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! It turns out from Ernst & Young's analysis that in 30 years, this entire project will bring losses to the Estonian state of EUR 4 billion. This argument has also not been contested by Minister Kadri Simson. My question is whether the Government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu are aware of this. And at the expense of the budget lines, the EUR 4 billion of losses that have to be borne by this pension, this is the salary of the educational staff, is it a state reserve fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U52	Thank you. You've read something wrong somewhere, because the study says it's worth $4 billion. This is a socio-economic benefit. The Estonian state will have to bear certain maintenance costs during the construction of this railway, which is estimated at up to 2 million per year. However, if the project starts in a planned form, the railway itself will manage and no additional fixed costs will be incurred by the State. The socio-economic benefits that the Estonian state will receive from this are significant and, in this respect, this project is certainly very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U53	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We know that there are nearly 650 rural units in front of the route, some of which must be expropriated. It has been openly stated that a market price is intended for the benefit of people. But according to estimates by real estate experts, if certain properties and units are bought out outside Tallinn at market price, their owners cannot actually buy their own equivalents instead. Is that what it's meant for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U55	Thank you. Each case is unique, each such unit of land is viewed separately and solutions are also offered that suit people. I very much hope that an agreement will finally be reached with all landowners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U56	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U57	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, In the last time, there are several very poor examples of how the government, in fact its leading party, has taken a condescending and pretty rough view of the serious issues of the day that have arisen in society in connection with one major decision or another. Whether it is the cutting of the younger spruce in the state forest that you pushed through here a week ago, or one of the long-awaited large traffic junction solutions in Tallinn, where unfortunately it seems that taking into account many local people and the existing environment has simply been sidelined. I consider Rail Baltic a project of great geostrategic importance. It is all the more important that its preparation and implementation is done in a responsible, prudent and transparent manner. My question is, can you confirm that all the questions raised have been answered exhaustively. And can you also confirm that the environment is taken into account in such a way as to minimise the impact on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U58	Thank you. In my opinion, all important questions have been adequately answered. Several studies have been carried out. The last one that has been completed recently, I think, also provides very good and important answers. It has also been confirmed that the environment has been taken into account as much as possible and that the environmental impact is as low as possible with such a project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U59	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U60	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! There's a lot of things going on here now, but I can't get everyone's attention in a minute. But the important questions have not been answered, certainly not about funding. Your party partner, Kadri Simson, told us here a week ago that money comes from the state budget, that this is how the funding works. I'm still asking the same question that Küllik's Hatter asked me where the money came from. You tell us that the benefits are socio-economic, and that is 4 billion. Will the 4 billion socio-economic benefits, for which we all know that it has been conceived and received with wrong input data, somehow be passed on to the state budget? Could this money also be paid for pensions, for example? Or how do you move this 4 billion socio-economic benefits in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U61	Thank you. Socio-economic benefits are not a specific number that comes into the state budget somewhere. This is a general increase in well-being in Estonia and is felt by every person. Indeed, funding goes through the state budget, and the state cannot finance anything differently. Whether a loan is taken for this railway or if the amount required is collected from taxes, it becomes apparent on a yearly basis. We're still talking about a very long period, and every year is unique. But if we look at the volume that has been discussed here, i.e. 250-300 million for the entire project over nine years, it is certainly not the amount that is beyond the power of the Estonian state. I am absolutely convinced that this money will be found. The additional question, of course, is how many regional projects are being carried out within this framework. They're still under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U62	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Madam waitress, I have such a request for you: since you, as a Commission waitress, are very well aware of all the arguments in favour, please create a vision of the situation when this railroad is ready. What, then, is happening in different economic areas in Estonia? And convince those men and women who are absolutely convinced that Rail Baltica is not a good project. They start with the fact that this project is unconstitutional on many issues, spends a lot of mineral resources, and this 240 kilometres per hour is not the most useful limit speed. Create a vision with a few words so that those people who oppose this project can understand that this is a worthwhile thing. Do not speak the typical sentences in all the cost-benefit studies, speak the human language!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U64	Thank you. The first important thing that comes from Rail Baltic is, for example, the tram route from Tallinn airport to the port. It is also part of this route and certainly important for the development of the city as well as for all tourists visiting Estonia who are moving along this route. Secondly, driving time to Pärnu will be significantly reduced, which means that Pärnu's potential as a tourist centre will increase. Of course, driving times are also reduced to the next destinations in Riga and Vilnius. It has also been said here that Finland's interest has grown. There is increasing talk of tunnel possibility. This project takes account of the fact that the goods are delivered by Finland to Rail Baltic by vessels. Secondly, Poland has also come with the project, which means that this part of the railway, which was really slow, will be faster by 2030. In all cuttings, at a speed of 240 kilometers an hour? Probably not, but at least 160. So driving times are significantly shortening, and that is what offers more mobility for both people and goods. Now, as far as speed is concerned, the speed of the passenger train is currently set at 240 kilometres per hour for freight trains and 120 kilometres per hour for freight trains. Is that a lot or a lot? It's all relative. Let's say it's 120 completely enough to carry the goods. Could it be even faster to transport people by rail? Of course you could. If we get to Pärnu in 20 minutes instead of 45 minutes, it will be much better again. But there will be technical problems. If we make this railroad faster than 240 kilometres per hour, the goods can no longer be moved on the same road because the railroad slopes are getting too big. This 240 is a compromise such railways can be used for both passenger and freight transport. Therefore, in my opinion, this is the best solution under today's circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U65	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U66	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. At the beginning of your report, you argued that Ernst & Young had not yet responded to the complaints raised about their analysis. Nor has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications been able to answer the problems raised and the questions asked by citizens, which are very serious. On the other hand, you replied that all important problems had already been resolved. What are the arguments that the Committee on Economic Affairs has sent a draft law to the final vote on which the questions are actually unanswered?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U67	Thank you. Ernst & Young has carried out its study in accordance with the guidelines of the European Commission. These guidelines calculate the cost-effectiveness of all major European projects. And I think they've done their job well. The European Commission has also reviewed this study and confirmed its findings. For Estonia, this is in any case a cost-effective project and all the questions concerning the Estonian environment and economy have, in my opinion, been answered very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U68	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U69	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, I will specify the answer that you quoted and which was given to my question in the Commission. That answer actually repeated the question rather than the answer. We did not know what the Ministry of Finance was thinking about the evolution of this budget burden, whether it was a cost or an investment. Rather, it remained in the air that it would become necessary, and the fact that it was a public limited company does not change anything. But my question is about profitability. Do you have the Ernst & Young figures available on how much of the benefits of this project are immeasurable, socio-economic and environmental? Am I wrong to say that this order of magnitude is about two thirds? Do you have these numbers, or do you want to tell me where I can find them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U70	Thank you. I don't have these numbers here right now, but they're all in Ernst & Young's study. Let's just say that most of the benefits are socio-economic. On the direct cost-benefit side, the railway should pay off on a rolling basis, manage itself, but it certainly does not earn back this investment to the Estonian state financially. So most of these benefits are socio-economic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U71	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U72	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! I'll come back to E&Y's cost-benefit analysis. It has been said repeatedly that there have been wrong calculations and that this could also be directly called fraud. You said, and the minister here said that the instructions that had to be taken into account were followed, but the question is that the data that has become obsolete is wrong. It's not about whether or not the instructions were followed. And there is no answer to this input question. Why do you go on like a train without answers to such important questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U73	Thank you. No false source data has been used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U74	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U75	Thank you. Your answers are rather superficial, if not arrogant. This does not give the impression that such an important project is really professionally carried out. But I also ask you that the government is currently overheating the economy and the construction sector. Most of the euro money is now opening up, in addition to borrowing and taxpayers' money, everything goes into artificial heating of the economy. At the same time, construction procurement will start for Rail Baltic, which could therefore be significantly higher. How reasonable do you think that is? We are probably talking about tens, if not hundreds of millions of euros. And I'd like a more thorough answer from you, not one sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U76	Thank you. The state invests an amount of EUR 2.4 billion per year and Rail Baltic has a volume of EUR 240 million over nine or ten years. Within 10 years, the state will invest 24 billion, following current volumes, and Rail Baltic will thus receive 1% of the state's investment. This is not something so critical that should be worried about funding. I think they'll find the money anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U77	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U78	It's a little money for you, it's a lot of money for me. The government is chasing a hundred thousand now, and you're saying it's not a lot of money. I dare assure you that the story you're saying about socio-economic benefits I'm able to do for hours myself. Therefore, what you say about socio-economic benefits does not have any meaningful meaning, nor is it interesting. You and I can feel the strength, but I'll talk better. If I have to, I'm an even bigger demagog than you, but that's not the issue right now. The following things arise with Rail Baltic: tramroad to Tallinn and Pärnu Tourism Centre. Fine! But what happens to Kasepää, Antslas, Tabiverre, Võru, Tsoru, who's gonna pay for this thing? What will they get without taking into account the socio-economic benefits? We agreed these words would be dirty and you wouldn't use them anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U79	Thank you. Let's just say for everyone standing by the pump, there's a little bit of spray on it, so they're definitely getting something. And if there's nothing else, they can drive Rail Baltic to Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U80	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U81	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Dear waitress, The way the Centre Party stands and sprays at the pump, we see Tallinn every day. But I want to cool off this Polish and Finnish talk. What you are saying from the remote is that Poland is also going to do and Finland is becoming more and more interested is clearly misleading the Riigikogu and the public, rude talk, and, essentially, selling one harmful project with a lie. But I still come back to my question. Okay, no dirty words, but when I asked here where the money came from, there was talk of the same socio-economic benefit. You need to take out a loan to build, but how much, we don't know, it'll be clear separately and later. In essence, the Riigikogu still has to buy from the pig in the bag, and it is absolutely clear from your words that this is a very loss-making project. Please make these things work out for me somehow, that we're taking out a loan and we're getting the benefit of it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U82	Thank you. In addition to the Committee on Economic Affairs, an organisation such as the Baltic Assembly met and the meeting was attended by both the Polish Minister of Transport and the respective representatives of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland. And there the Polish Minister of Transport confirmed that they would come along with this project and also renovate the part of the Rail Baltic route that remains on their territory. I believe that they will do so by 2030. Secondly, when we are talking about specific sources of financing, they are really decided on a yearly basis. The loan is one of the options, but maybe you don't have to take it. Maybe everything's going so well that it can do without a loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U83	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U84	Thank you. I regret to agree with those who say that this style of discussing the serious issues that are taking place here is not acceptable to me. In connection with the construction of Rail Baltic, a number of very serious issues have been raised and must also be taken seriously. Clear and exhaustive answers must be given in public, because without them and accepting such a condescending attitude, this whole sloppy and reckless process can simply run away later. It could get stuck in long, stretching disputes again. My question is why there has been no public response from members of the government and where this is where these answers can be found. Where would people, for whom there are fully justified questions and doubts, whether they relate to environmental accounting, cost or profitability, get comprehensive, clear and really substantive answers to their questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U85	Thank you. This project has been dealt with for a long time. This has been done for over 20 years. And most of that time, the Reform Party has run the government office. I really don't know why you haven't communicated publicly on these topics in the past and introduced the development of the project to the people of Estonia. All the documents that the Economic Affairs Committee was able to see are available on the Riigikogu website.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U86	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! My question concerns the amendment approved by the Commission. It provides, as an annex to the state budget, an annual action plan for the following financial year plus a list of items and their estimated cost. At the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications felt it necessary to stress that the evaluation of this amendment was the responsibility of the Committee on Monetary Affairs rather than the Committee on Economic Affairs. Do you also have the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today on this amendment, which really is essentially their place, not that of the Committee on Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U88	Thank you. This amendment, which was accepted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is a compromise based on various proposals, including those of the National Audit Office, so that the Riigikogu has a better overview of this project. And that seems like a perfectly reasonable compromise. I do not have the decision of the Committee on Finance in writing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U89	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, you are misleading the public with absolutely every answer, as well as us in this Chamber. If you say that every year, the government is channelling 2.4 billion into investment with the state budget, it is a complete distraction. These are government expenses. These are the costs that go, among other things, to pay pensions, etc., which are not investments. I have not felt that the EUR 500+ I receive every month's pension would be an investment. And I can't invest with that money either, I'm gonna make it. If you say that the money that goes for Rail Baltic is not too much for us, then why are we too much to build the Tartu route two plus two, to build the Pärnu route two plus two, to make a permanent connection to Saaremaa, to build the coastguard capability of the defence forces...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U91	The question is, where do you take the money so that you don't miss all the other things?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U92	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U93	Thank you. The state budget is in the order of 10 billion and 2.4 billion of these are investments. Investments still go directly to infrastructure construction, not to pensions. Pensions and all that is in addition to that. In addition to Rail Baltic, the Tartu highway is also being built, the work is ongoing, and I think that by 2022 at least Mäoni's two plus two roads will be completed. The Pärnu highway is also being built. There will be several two plus two sections around the pärnu, plus longer two plus one sections. And the Narva direction is also being developed. So all directions are covered and all are included in those public investments that have been approved by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U94	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U95	Thank you. It is quite embarrassing to hear you talk about how the people of Estonia are now about to get to Europe on a whirlwind Rail Baltica. Haven't you been following the debates at all? Rail Baltica ends on the Lithuanian-Polish border. But what I am interested in is that you also talked about how Finland's goods are now beginning to move enormously through Estonia. Finland's transport routes by sea to Europe and by rail to Russia are 20-30% cheaper than the current prices of Estonian Railways, which would require additional transhipment costs and everything else that arises from moving goods through here. Please tell me, if we put 5 billion or 6 billion in this railroad, how can these prices get cheaper to get the Finns to use Rail Baltica? What's this miracle trick?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U96	Thank you. First of all, the Estonian state invests in the order of 250 to 300 million. And in logistics, there's a principle that counts time and price. Time will definitely shorten when driving along Rail Baltic and the price will also be competitive. In return, the additional costs for both shipping and road transport will be increased, making these transport opportunities less attractive in a 10 to 20-year perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U97	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have differences of opinion: you say that all the questions have been answered, I say that they have not. Please make it clear to me, fool, who is organising the major international procurements whose balance sheet is Rail Baltic and what will happen if Estonia fails to complete the project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U99	Thank you. First of all, if Estonia should bail now, it will be very difficult for us in the future to get additional investments from Europe. In other words, there is a risk that the European Commission will also decide to recover all the funds allocated under the CEF1 and CEF2 agreements, not only from Estonia, but also from Latvia and Lithuania. This essentially means that these 250 million will then have to be paid as a fine and we will not be able to get a railroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U100	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U101	You didn't answer the last question again. With the same arrogance, the whole Rail Baltica project has actually been transported, and that's what irritates society just laughs in the face and makes things that come to their own mind. But you said that as an extra budget, there would be plans to build. Have you seen any plan that works in the first stage? And does this include the plan to build soils and bridges across Estonia before the amount that will come to us in the next funding period?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U102	Thank you. According to the plans I've seen, the first phase is a tram route from the airport to the port, designing and buying out the land. If you continue, there is also Ülemiste terminal, Pärnu terminal and some viaducts around Tallinn, which is needed in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U103	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! Well, that wasn't a nice comment. Why didn't the Reform Party do it? Our prime ministers have even been too enthusiastic for me to defend this project. I can't really impress them in the same way. In any case, the burden of explanation lies with the government in power, and you have been there long enough by now. I also have a comment that you have not actually been able to answer me about the proportion of their profitability. It's new information, and it shows you don't have your answers yet. My question, however, is about another comment. You said that if you were to increase the speed really big, then this freight transport would get a little mixed up. What exactly was that? You didn't open it. A freight train could drive slower. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U105	Thank you. I said that this project has been carried out for a very long time, and in the past there has been very little public information, if not to say that it did not exist. There could certainly have been much more discussion on this issue in the past, both on line choices and on other issues. With regard to the special features of passenger and freight transport, if the speed on the railway exceeds 240 kilometres per hour, it is necessary to start building ramps on the bends so that fast trains can quickly take these curves off. If there's a slow freight train running on that same slope, there's a danger it's just going sideways there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U106	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U107	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are here on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs to explain to us, but I am still asking for your personal opinion. It's important that you report all this for the coalition. Perhaps you can tell us, having certainly read all kinds of appeals in recent days and before, which is the three most positive arguments for you as to why Rail Baltic is needed, and three more hesitant or negative arguments. If there are no negatives, just say positives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U108	Thank you. It is certainly positive that we will have a railroad that will make it possible to move towards another Europe and to our closest neighbours significantly faster than today. This speed is also attractive for the trade sector and logistics, which means that much more transit goods can start to move through Estonia, which will contribute to our economy. Of course, there are several risks that the National Audit Office has referred to. But if we continue this project together and discuss the issues, I think we can manage all these risks reasonably.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U109	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U110	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! You said here a while ago that no wrong source data has been used for the cost-benefit analysis. However, when you gave an overview in the Commission sitting, one Member of the Commission had a question about the emissions of vehicles. Ernst & Young would have liked to have used the emissions data of EURO II trucks in its analysis. But when this item goes into operation, we already have EURO IV trucks with 25 times the impact of pollution. You said the Ministry of Economic Affairs would answer that question. I am asking what has become clear today about the emissions of these trucks. Was the source data wrong? And if these source data were incorrect, what are the correct source data related to the exhaust emissions of trucks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U111	Thank you. The Ministry of Economic Affairs confirmed that this analysis does not take into account EURO II cars but takes into account more environmentally friendly cars. The Economic Commission was not told how many cars and what kind of community. I believe that this information will come at some point when Ernst & Young has completed his more comprehensive response. However, in general terms, all basic data have been taken, as the European Commission has asked, in the community that they have considered important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U112	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U113	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I actually have a number of questions. Why does the Centre Party not behave better than the Reform Party you mentioned, nor does it disclose material, so that no one will have any doubts as to whether this is a suspension. Secondly, who and when will the mechanism be developed? You argued that large-scale procurement is not organised by Estonia, but it is not yet clear whether it is done by the European Union or by a subsidiary. How is the use of money guaranteed to the taxpayer by the public? When and who will decide whether budgeting will take place through a subsidiary or through the state budget? You said here these are the options.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U114	Thank you. Public funding is always provided through the state budget, which has been approved by the Riigikogu. All public procurements are carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. I believe that this law protects the public well enough and that public money has been used optimally.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U115	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Going through this railway line in Pärnu means that in the direction of Tartu-Valga, the repair will be speeded up and the traffic will be moved to today's level. You have also said that Rail Baltic will not prevent other investments. Can you tell me that, if this was a promise, why has the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications not formally addressed the Latvians with the wish to open the Tartu-Riga route, which could facilitate the movement of people in the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U117	Thank you. I can't tell you why the Ministry of Economic Affairs hasn't approached the Latvians. However, there has been much talk about the route between Tartu and Riga. I very much hope that the trains will soon start to travel there and this direction will then be more open to the people of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U118	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U119	Thank you. It is very regrettable that you were literally lying here some time ago, as in Ernst & Young's analysis, old standards of pollution would not have been used. I don't think you've read the analysis yourself, otherwise you'd know they're using 25 times the current levels of pollution to get some kind of ordered fake result. But I'm actually interested in the next thing. Government representatives have also confirmed that we may not get any more money in the next funding period, or if we do, we will get much less money. So this isn't about that 300 million, but it could also increase to, I don't know, a billion. Do you still have to push this project through, regardless of any reasonable considerations or their absence?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U120	Thank you. All the claims I have made have either been the result of a study or they have come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. All of this is well-founded. As far as the third funding period is concerned, it depends very much on how the vote is going here today. If we ratify this agreement, it is very likely that, even during the third funding period, we will receive real money and this project will be able to move forward. However, as far as this increase is concerned, there is a point in the agreement that, if the self-financing of this agreement increases significantly, the three Baltic States will be able to decide whether or not to proceed with this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U121	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U122	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I'm now the voice of my benchmate, Krista Aru, because you didn't answer her question, and I repeat that. Who is organising major international procurements related to Rail Baltic and whose balance sheet is the part of Rail Baltic in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U123	Thank you. RB Rail is a joint company of three countries, each country is responsible for the piece of the route that remains on its territory. It has not yet been decided who is organising exactly one or the other procurement. It is likely to be either a private limited company owned by Estonia or a joint limited company. But they're still working on it. As I said, the project has been carried out for all three Baltic States, and the answers to these questions will also be found in time. In any event, these procurements must be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U124	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Of course, the answer to the previous question did not satisfy me. I've been thinking about how fast we're building these four-line roads. It turned out to be about 15 kilometers a year. That, of course, is a fantastic result. But all the time we are trying to make it look like we have no connection to Europe at all, like we are in Atlantis, which has sunk to the bottom of the sea, and which cannot get out of it, and now we need to build a railroad that will take us to the sea. That is not true, we are not cut off from Europe, I just went there, Germany, I went to other countries too. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you talked about transit, which accounts for 7% of GDP. Its share was 141⁄2%, but now it is shrinking, shrinking. Thirdly, do you not think that this forceful push-through will, like the administrative reform, eventually lead to endless trials that will be costly and hinder the whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U126	Thank you. The journey from Tallinn to Brussels lasts as long as the journey from Iceland to Brussels. I think it's a problem. We are connected by land, and our connection should certainly be faster than one island state. Rail Baltic will improve this situation. If we have opportunities to move even faster in the future, we will try to use them as well. As far as transit is concerned, this is, of course, a very sensitive issue. Indeed, the large countries that transport their goods have thousands of opportunities to move it without Estonia. If we want the goods to move through Estonia, we must work ourselves to make Estonia seem attractive. This project is one small drop in this cup, which should lure the goods this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U127	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I tried to lead you in this direction with my previous question, so that you would give us an idea of why we are discussing this issue here before Midsummer Day, why we should not discuss it in the autumn. There are a lot of questions. You could have set out, as positive arguments, the arguments put forward in the speech by the coordinator of the European Commission in Tallinn why Rail Baltic is necessary. I'll give you another chance. Why are we discussing this here in an emergency session, why can't we do it in the autumn? Secondly, what are our prospects if, for example, we say no to Rail Baltic today? What are the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U128	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U129	Thank you. First of all, Estonia is behind the other Baltic countries on some issues with its Rail Baltic project. Latvia and Lithuania have confirmed the national plans of the route; Estonia has not yet completed this in certain sections. If we still want to show that we are involved in this project and take it seriously, the first ratification of this Treaty would be a very important step to this end. What will happen if we do not ratify this agreement, I have already talked about it and the audit of the National Audit Office has also spoken about it. Then it becomes very questionable whether we will be given any money for the next major projects, or whether it is not clear to what extent this will be done. However, many of these projects are coming. One of the biggest projects to come is the decoupling of the Estonian electricity grid from Russia. It's a project many times bigger than Rail Baltic. We would then jeopardise this and a number of other projects requiring European funding. This agreement is very important for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U130	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have two brief questions. We all know that maritime transport is growing in the world, it is also growing in the Baltic Sea. What is the formula for these trade flows from the sea to the railroad? I expect a prognosis from you, too. It is permissible that if this ratification law is passed here today, the Supreme Court will be taken. What's the outcome of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U132	Thank you. I believe that there will be plenty of cargo for the sea, the road and the railroad. The general trend shows an increase in the volume of goods. Let's look at the Baltic Sea region as a whole. In all ports except Estonian ports, the volume of goods has increased. Why haven't we grown it? This is the point of thinking and analyzing how to catch up with others. Rail Baltic will certainly contribute to this; it will make the use of our ports more attractive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U133	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U134	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I looked in the hall before, and then when I listened to the transmission in my room, I also noticed that you were in a bit of trouble. You have come out of the framework of this treaty in the framework of such a wandering or philosophical dispute. I'm trying to help you out a little bit. First of all, we certainly have an idea of how to move on from Rail to Baltic, after all, we are both in the Helsinki Tunnel Support Group. I recall that Lennart Meri once had a dream that in six to seven hours we should have Berlin. Can you humanely, politely tell those who doubt whether this modern and new connection is needed, whether this dream will come true now, and what will improve our lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U135	Thank you. Really, there was talk of that tunnel. This is the continuation of this project, which makes it even more important. It is clear that if we do not have this railroad, there is no reason to build a tunnel. As far as driving to Berlin is concerned, this railroad theoretically allows us to get very close to this seven-hour drive, but it is likely that this race will slow down. Hopefully the technology will get better, and one day we will get a road that will take us much faster to Berlin and to other destinations in Europe. But if there are suitable operators, then this possibility, yes, is there without having to sit around.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U136	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Luckily, I can comfort you that it's not that bad, Lennart Meri's dream has long been realized, Tallinn becomes Berlin very comfortably and quickly, in two hours, thanks to the air connection. Therefore, the rail link is not essential for transporting people. But I'm going back to Estonia's involvement. You mentioned, quite early in the sitting, in answering one question, that it is not yet clear where the cover will come from almost EUR 300 million, either from increasing tax receipts or from borrowing. However, do you not see that this is very risky when Parliament ratifies some kind of agreement without knowing whether this cost, some EUR 300 million, will be covered by tax receipts or will be charged in the form of a loan? You're talking like it's a number, by the way. I would like to remind you that we are currently looking for hundreds of thousands of euros in the budget, so 300 million is a very large sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U138	Thank you. I recall that when a volcano in Iceland decided some time ago to erupt and show greater activity, all air traffic was down. Other European countries have sufficiently good rail connections and were not affected very much by the lack of air services, but this was a serious problem for Estonia. So we certainly need alternative transport options, we cannot depend on one mode of transport. This investment, these 250-300 million, will be carried out within nine years. Therefore, this amount does not come from one year's budget, it is divided into several years. Specific sources of financing are decided each year on a case-by-case basis, there is no reason to lock them so early.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U139	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! You're saying there's an increase in trade flows. But we know very well that, in recent times, there is a tendency for trade flows on both Estonian railways and Latvian railways and ports to decline. What kind of panacea or what kind of thing could it be, which could suddenly cause rivers to flow backwards and trade flows in Latvia and Estonia's ports and railways to increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U141	Thank you. In Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, trade flows have increased in recent years. The only exception to this list is Estonia. Why we haven't grown them, that's the point. We should find out why so that the goods can also move through Estonia. One small way to do that is with Rail Baltic. Our representatives in the transit sector have said that this road is important to them. These include very influential and important businessmen who highly value this project, even if their companies are far from that path.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U142	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U143	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Your answer to my question was a message that the tunnel would only come with Rail Baltic. I'm very optimistic, and I think the tunnel could come without it, but Rail Baltic is definitely needed. I'm gonna get off the subject for a second. I spoke to the Greens in the European Parliament when I was a minister. Their view was quite clear: rail transport is very pleasing to the green world view. How would you describe the relationship between this project and other transport, such as road transport and everything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U144	Thank you. Indeed, electric railways are much more environmentally friendly than other modes of transport. This route also takes account of the nature it goes through and of the opportunities offered to animals to cross the railroad. But in terms of overall environmental impact, there really is a significant difference. This is reflected very vividly in the socio-economic benefits identified in the studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U145	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U146	Honourable waitress! It is true that sometimes traffic may be interrupted due to weather conditions, but fortunately there is also a connection to Europe with the help of Lux Express or Ecolines. So it cannot be said that only one mode of transport connects us to Europe. But that's what it is. In answering one question, you mentioned that Ernst & Young's analysis of the source numbers and data is correct and correct. You responded very briefly, and you did not comment on that again. Let's do this analysis. Firstly, the distance between cities varies several times. As far as road transport pollution is concerned, it is based on data from the 1990s, which are totally different from today's 21st century data. There are therefore two options: whether you have not read this analysis, or whether you deliberately have read it in Estonian, how you said it nicely in your reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U147	Thank you. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has assured us that all calculations have been made correctly. I have no reason to doubt their claims. I'm certainly not a specialist enough to go over these calculations again. We still trust specialists. If we have been told that true data have been used on road traffic, I see no reason to doubt it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U148	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I too am becoming increasingly concerned, but not because of the ratification of the Rail Baltic Treaty, but because of the tone and the views that have been heard in this Chamber. All over the world, good connections and logistics are seen as one of the main drivers of growth in the economy, but it seems to me that at least on the side of the questioners in this Chamber there is no such opinion. It makes me very concerned and cautious. I think that this railroad may need Estonia 10 times more than Europe. But we have talked a lot about the amount that Estonia has to put into this project. It is 270-300 million euros, which is a quarter of Estonia's annual investment volume, divided over a long period of time. But what is the amount of money that the European Union contributes to the Estonian economy and to improving Estonia's connections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U150	Thank you. Good connections are really very important to the economy. They allow for the development of logistics, with the possibility for top specialists to move more and to be more dynamic. Indeed, statistics also show that the better connections are in one place or another, the greater the economic growth in the region and the more prosperous the people are. As far as specific figures are concerned, this is not as part of this draft. As has been said here, this is a protocol of good intentions. However, in the order of magnitude, this ratio was such that Europe pays 85% and Estonia puts the remaining 15% or 19% (these figures are shown differently). So Europe still invests four times more in Estonia as part of this project than we do ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U151	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U152	Good waitress! I will continue with Kristjan's question. In your answers, you deviate from the agreement we're discussing here. I immediately recognise: a step to the right or to the left of the agreement that we should ratify, and the next agreement, the Treaty with Single Russia, on which you are speaking very much now, is at stake. As we know, Rail Baltic cannot be profitable, but at least a third of its profitability depends on Russia. Against this background, I have such a question. You said it was very important to ratify first. Estonia first ratified the Treaty of Accession to the Soviet Union, Estonia ratified the Treaty of Lisbon when it had failed, etc. Given that Russia is the expected party here, is this the place where we need to pick up the pace and be the first?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U153	Thank you. As regards the trade flows from Russia mentioned in the survey, I repeat that this study has been carried out for the whole of Rail Baltic and not just for this part of Estonia. Let us see how these trade flows from Russia are divided between different countries. They mainly move to Lithuania and Latvia, the Estonian part is relatively small in the Russian direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U154	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U155	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This ratification has had a very long history. In fact, today in this Chamber, listening to the debate on ratification, we can draw conclusions on what Estonia is or is not ready for. We know that in August the preparatory activities will be essentially completed, the regional plans will be established in the Rail Baltic context, including the environmental impact assessment. How do you personally feel about the distress or charm of Estonian society that we are reaching such a negative background for such large objects in this Chamber? Where's the mistake made? How can we do things better in the future, and what can we learn from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U156	Thank you. Indeed, the history of this process has been very long. I think the problems lie in communication. Throughout this period, there has been not enough public debate ahead of important decisions on how we will proceed with this project, there has been no talk about what we are currently deciding and what decisions have already been taken. In the future, in the case of such projects, I think that a public debate should start much earlier, so that all questions can be answered in good time and in greater depth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U157	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U158	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, What we heard today from this remote control, this arrogance and superiority of the questioners, characterises the whole process that has taken place with Rail Baltic all these years. But arrogance, or arrogance, is introduced when it comes to concealing insecurity, incompetence, and other such qualities. Our group has referred to many of the issues that civil society organisations have also spoken about. With regard to Ernst & Young's cost-benefit analysis, civil activists have pointed out that a fraud of up to EUR 4 billion has been recorded. These are the things that we believe that this Treaty must not be ratified today and here. We want answers to these questions before we sign such an important agreement. My colleague Andres Metsoja asked what was going on with the people of Estonia when another major infrastructure object would be discussed. The simple thing that is open to the people of Estonia is that they simply do not trust the government. Whatever object we look at, it becomes clear that whether money has simply been wasted or a very large part of the money has been stolen, corrupted. After all, we don't want this shit back here in Estonia. I really don't! That is why we need to get clear answers to all the questions that citizens' activists, the Free Party Group and others have put forward. I come back once again to calling on all of you, just as many cultural and social actors have done several times during the discussion of this Rail Baltic project: please do not ratify this Treaty today, it could be pushed to autumn, so that many of the questions that are still unanswered can be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U159	Igor Gräzin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U160	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to talk about what's going on. In the end, what Artur said was actually true. Such a scheme has deep corrupt risks, all the more so as no one here today knows where, who and how to finance it. We, the people of Estonia, are described by the representatives of the European Commission as an insignificant minority, and they despise us. Whatever it is, it has been insulted before, let the European Commission continue to do so, it is not the first time. I'll fix just one big mistake. It is often said that Rail Baltic is an infrastructure object, etc. It's a terminological vassing. There is no doubt that Rail Baltic is not an infrastructure object in the Republic of Estonia, not to the least. The normal economic book says ♪ first we go back to Adam Smith, that 'infrastructure' is the derivative of'structural'. This structure, from which Rail Baltic comes, but does not exist, in other words, all this economic calculation, as Mr Savisaar rightly said, is simply that if it does, perhaps it will spray everyone. Such a thing cannot be regarded as intrinsically infrastructural, even if illegal activities are legalised. But that's it. I want to draw attention to the EKRE amendment that has been made here and to the story, after Martin tells his story. I would also like to point out that I have withdrawn my second amendment, which is here, because we actually proposed with the EKRE and these proposals coincide. I want this problem to be legally clear. There are two sides. On one side there is a group of European and not a union, but a group of European Commission officials, of which we are always hearing about, and on the other side there is an Estonian state and nation. Those are the two sides that talk to each other. These are ordinary commercial negotiations, the parties have their own interests. The representatives of the European Commission are interested that the interest of the Estonian people is that there is nothing left in Estonia and that it would not be very harmful. As a result, Estonia makes two reservations about the agreement as proposed by this third amendment. Reservations are provided for in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and are done by most countries. We have more than 30 reservations on the UN Charter alone. So it's perfectly normal, the reservation has the same function as the preamble. If you think well, it's useful, if you think badly, you should ditch it. So, what are these reservations? The first reservation provided for in Amendment 3 relates to the fact that, if Europe decides in future not to finance this project, we will also have no obligations. What does that mean? The European Commission wants to build railways in Estonia. Estonia promises to build railways on its territory. In other words, it's a concession contract. The European Union pays for its right to use Estonia's land, resources, sovereignty, etc. They can use it, we promise. That's the usual concession contract. If no concession payments are received, the European Commission will arrange for us to be paid the missing amount and will be fined. This opens up a direct opportunity for us to turn to the European Court of Justice against the European Commission, without such an affair. In short, the European Commission will get Rail Baltic, we will get the money and the opportunity to take care of them at any moment. Another important reservation that is foreseen here, and which I would also like to draw attention to, is that Rail Baltic and this project are considered geostrategic. In other words, we are not talking about moving four iron bars from Muuga Harbour to Pärnu, but about the road to Rome or Latin via, which also includes connections between Tartu and Valga, and all the infrastructure necessary for Estonia as a whole to be part of such a large transatlantic transport corridor as naive people in the European Union thought ten years ago before the'real men' turned it into what it is today. So I call for a vote in favour of these reservations. This is Amendment 3. If we are in favour of these improvements, then perhaps this Rail Baltic is not hopelessly dangerous, at least it will no longer be immoral, as it is today. Very simple: yes or no. I brought a Bible book. Since I have time, I quote this place that has repeatedly been quoted by Dostoyevsky. John's book of Revelation, addressed to the congregation in Laodicea: "And to the angel of the congregation in Laodicea write: Amen, the faithful and true Witness, the beginning of the creation of God, says: I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. Oh, would you be cold or hot! But now that you're lukewarm and not cold or hot, I'm gonna spit you out of my mouth. ' Amen. Those who are not in favour of Rail Baltic may have the courage to express it in some way! Don't be hot or cold, or as Jaak Madison said here about the Muuli: not liquid or standing, but have your own opinion! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U161	Jaanus Marrand. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Today we are actually discussing a transnational agreement here, but this debate has become quite wider. In fact, this Rail Baltic has become a matter of faith in itself, whether in favour or against it. The arguments of one party and the other are not really working anymore. Let's see how this railroad religion has been in Estonia before. The first railway was published in Estonia in the 1870s, over 130 years ago. Remember, then, the newspapers wrote about how the cows would get their milk stuck and the sparks would set the houses on fire. There was talk of the overall damage caused by this railroad. It was a very clear belief. We know that this faith was wrong because the railway led to the development of our country, and the entire cities were therefore born. For example, my upper secondary school city, Türi, received city rights precisely because of the railway. It was a development issue. Perhaps today it is unwise to look at the past so far, perhaps it is not appropriate. But let's look at the beginning of the 2000s when there was a long debate in this very hall about how the South-West Railway should stop the passenger dose and get people moving on buses. True, this faith did not win in this Chamber, the belief that railroads were still needed. But the railroad was bad, the trains were bad. By 2013, we had only 4.2 million passengers on the railway. New trains came, the quality of the railway improved, and the railway was supported. There were already 6.8 million passengers in 2016 and 8.8 million passengers are planned for 2020. So Estonia is a railway believer and if it is worth it, it is worth supporting. Now we're getting to the passengers. Similar claims that there are no passengers can be found in shipping. In 1964, Urho Kekkonen visited Estonia, after which a political decision was made to launch ship traffic between Tallinn and Helsinki. Initially, the ship Vanemuine, later Georg Ots, smoked on this line. No one believed, could have imagined that now there would be about 20 trips a day on this line, a lot of money being made here, and 9 million people traveling over the bay with ships. Let's move on from here. We're getting to Rail Baltic. Now let's think a little bit more closely. Why should we think that Rail Baltic doesn't have enough passengers? Why should we think that 9 million people are moving across the bay, but there aren't that many passengers inside the Baltics? Why should we think that the Baltics will be much poorer, that we will not have enough passengers who would like to travel from Tallinn to Riga in two hours or to Vilnius in a little longer time, that people do not want to move or purchase goods? Why should we believe that? I don't think we're gonna be poor here forever. The second issue, it is claimed that there are no goods left. Here, for example, there are always transit problems and talk about how goods are not enough for current carriers, and what situation we are in at all. It's gonna get really sad. Let's think about the positive key! Why should we believe that economic development is stagnating, that there is no development, and in 20 years' time, policy is still ahead of good economic relations, I mean our eastern neighbour? Or why should we believe that neither Finland nor Estonia will grow? It is precisely by train that it makes more sense to move to southern Europe, rather than by boat to and from the port of Hamburg. The main argument is that the project is too expensive. Let's be honest, on the basis of the information available, Estonia's share share is were drawn here by a parallel with Tallink for nine years about the cost of one of Tallink's ships crossing the bay. If it goes a little more than that today we really don't know it, then it's certainly not an insurmountable problem for the state. Now, the environmental issue. It has already been noted here that, in terms of the environment, electric railways in Europe are seen as a very positive and environmentally friendly phenomenon. We see that there are eco-ducts, -viaducts, -bridges in this project. Estonia is not divided in two, because Estonia is a relatively sparsely populated country and we have room for moving to one and the other, both to humans and animals. Now we are getting to profitability. Can anyone tell us where the return on one or the other road is, whether or not it pays off? It is very natural that roads exist and the state allocates money to them, and that is why people's well-being and economy are growing. We also think it is natural that the ferry link between the islands is just like the continuation of the road; we consider it important. But why should we think differently about the railroad? Why do we think that the socio-economic benefits of rail are not coming out? In fact, choices are increasing for everyone, also for passengers, and also for air traffic. For the whole large part of Estonia, Riga airport will be as close or even closer than Tallinn airport now, for example. For me as a Central Estonian man, it's definitely gonna be that way. So the options are increasing and the socio-economic benefits are obvious. In fact, it is too late today to take a stand for or take a stand. A number of Estonian governments have made relatively strategic decisions ten years ago, and funding is also in progress. In such a situation, it is certainly no longer wise to talk about whether to be in favour or against. If we said no to this agreement here today, we would bring great damage to Estonia, we would literally say no at the expense of future projects. Finally. I think this is definitely a project for the future, this project shows whether we want to believe in the development of Estonia and Europe, whether we want to believe that Europe should come closer to Estonia and the Baltic countries should come close to each other and Poland should come closer to Estonia. It is a question of believing in development, and if we do not want to believe it, it is certainly sensible not to support this project. But I believe in development and I agree to support this bill in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U163	Martin Helme. Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U165	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U166	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say to the previous speaker that there have not been any arguments here, there is not. The opposite party puts arguments, asks specific questions, claims and figures, but the followers of Rail Baltic tell us stories. They're giving us some emotional slogans and telling us everything else, but not the thing. We haven't heard any arguments! Some slogans are being cut that we need to connect to Europe, although we do have one, and that we need to have a quick connection to Europe, even though we know that this connection will not be fast. There is literally a false story about how Finland and Poland are coming along with the project. No, you're not! They are trying to make it clear to us that when we prepare the first piece, it will in any case be more certain that the European Union will also finance the project in the next period. However, there are rather opposite and much more compelling arguments in relation to Brexit and all these other circumstances. And then, of course, this return. Any person who has looked at these figures knows that even with this bluff called a socio-economic advantage, the whole project is in huge losses, infinitely huge losses. It never gets to the plus, it never earns itself evenly, that's one big cost project. If we take advantage of this unfortunate socio-economic benefit to embellish it, then it turns out that the benefits are also just a brutal lie. It's not really there. This project is built on false, false data, bluffing this whole project is bluff. Let's read it again so that everyone can understand what's wrong with this project. Here before they asked what was wrong with Estonians that we were opposed to this project. First of all, it's crazy expensive. This is more expensive than any other thing the Estonian state has ever done, it is more expensive than ERM, more expensive than KUMU, more expensive than Estonian Air, more expensive than the construction of Auvere stations, investments in Utah or Jordan, it is more expensive, much more expensive, many times more expensive. This railroad is expensive. We don't know exactly how expensive it is, but tens of millions a year. This means that about the same order of magnitude as national transport volumes are currently being paid, additional costs will have to be incurred. Where's the money coming from? We know about the state budget! In order to match the state budget, we spent the morning here, introducing new freak taxes. This project is too expensive. Well, how come this concept doesn't get there for you, the copper side? Secondly, we don't need it. We just don't need it! We have a southern railroad. There's no ruler line, but we don't really want that ruler line. This railroad's empty. We are again told here stories about how 'we believe and we hope that there will be a lot more people moving around here someday'. First of all, there should be more people around here. Okay, I know the soccer team would like to bring in immigrants, but it won't save your project either. There are no people to drive there! Well, it's not, well! There are no goods that can be transported there either. Well, it's not, well! Why is this railroad being built anyway? As always in Estonia: construction for its own sake, because for someone it is a gain. For all of us, the Estonian taxpayers, the people of Estonia, it is a cost, but someone will benefit from it. Just as there is funding for the whole of the European Union: many are always gathered and given to a few. If anyone asks why we are opposed to this, I will say: because we have collective experience and collective wisdom. Damn, people are being stolen in Estonia every step of the way! Now we're talking about 6 billion, and do we think that people aren't already, hands on the ground, waiting for them to get their cut? Of course it is. All those enthusiasts who, ignoring all the arguments, tell us these stupid stories are either stupid or paid for. The third argument against this railway, of course, is nature. There's been a lot of talk about it, but let's talk about it again. I remind you of the emotional reaction that the mention of phosphorus in Estonia causes. The extraction of phosphorus would not have made Estonia nearly as much of a pig's songerland as the construction of the Rail Baltic ruler line would have done. This amount of soil that needs to be turned around and moved is simply immeasurable. As a result, there is a huge shortage of building materials elsewhere. Fourthly, there is a very serious legal problem here, which has also been pointed out by the Auditor General. The Riigikogu has not learned of any specific budgetary amount that it should approve here. Basically, we are required to sign a bill of lading, just as in the case of the Greek aid package or the ESM. We're asking how much it's gonna cost. They say, well, about that much. We ask where the money comes from. They say we can borrow it. We'll ask when, where, at what cost. They say they don't know yet, we'll see later. This is the blankoveksel they want from us, and it is contrary to our duty as a Riigikogu to keep the budget of the Estonian state and the state's finances in line. It's just the blanks they want from us. And then they say that it's the most ingenious, that now is not the right time to say no. I'll ask you when it was the right time to say no. When have we been asked before? When has the consent or approval of Rail Baltic been sought from the Estonian people or the Estonian legislator in the past? Now is the first time we have ever been asked, so now is a pretty good time to say no to that. Let me remind you of a few more things. I would remind you that while sitting in opposition, the Central Party was against Rail Baltic. I will especially knock on the hearts of all the people who have to start explaining in their constituency how this turn of heel has happened and why such hogs are going along. I think it's inexplicable. In my opinion, this is incomprehensible. In my opinion, the Centre Party has thus completely destroyed its credibility. I would also like to remind you that there are elections already in the autumn, this subject is not going anywhere. Today's decision, too, is not the end of the process. There are courts in Estonia, this process can be delayed. The other two parties, Latvia and Lithuania, have also not yet reached a point in their process. Nothing's finished yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the provisions of the draft act, both 'amen' and 'horny swear' have been heard in this Chamber. The debate will continue. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U168	Ladies and gentlemen, That was not a good introduction to my speech. There is one big reason why failure to do this would be a loss, that is because of geopolitics and security. This is something that, unfortunately, measures our capacity for international cooperation. We have been doing this for years and we have reached a stage where signatures have already been signed as a country. I wouldn't want us to bail at this stage. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, I also put a critical question to one of my partners on this issue, because they were engaged in a political game. This project still means linking Estonia to the West and the North instead of the East, and that is an argument that I recognise. But now on: I still cannot vote in favour of this project. There are several reasons, but one of their strong concentrates was in Jaanus Marrand's speech. First of all, I don't have enough technocracy in me to buy these development arguments. I have too many naturalists in me to do this, and in this area my education began with just as well as a social scientist. If this whole project is essentially explained by the socio-economic benefits, I, as far as I am concerned with the technocracy, say that this is an almost immeasurable argument, it is a very artificial, controversial and full of holes. When people's feelings and homes are so massively attacked, it is not something that should be excluded from this analysis. However, if regional policy only supports a few cities, not regional development, this is also something that should be taken into account in socio-economic development. When it is said that this brings enormous environmental benefits, I now say, as an economist, that every road increases traffic and actually increases the environmental burden, including, by the way, electric railways. This project is economical, but it is not necessary to visit with socio-economic and environmental benefits, as the burden on nature also increases. I absolutely didn't like what Jaanus said, that everything was a development. So where do we extrapolate it? He started with steam locomotives and proved how everything's gone uphill, everything's gotten better, and the more you, the better. I've never tolerated that view. I have never even tolerated a multi-track construction of roads as an indisputable thing. It has still been necessary to take account of environmental impacts and the cost of the whole thing. After all, a great deal of soil will be removed from the circulation forever! just plants and animals. It is the asphalting of fields and forests; it is not a development. In the 21st century, we must not call development the more asphalt and iron, the more advanced we are, and our faith is right because we have more asphalt and more rails. As Jaanus said, your faith is false, and it is a question of faith at all, except for the question of which faith is better. So I have mixed feelings. I'm not voting. I fear this project may fail, but the only reason I would not like it is indeed geopolitics. There was hardly any talk about it here. The understanding of the economy of the 19th century was spoken of, just as this economic policy is now: it is the country that is king of nature, the country is a Mithurinian who does not expect the gift of mercy from nature, the man is living better and better, and for this reason he has the right to take down all the forests and to asphalt all the fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U169	Jaanus Marrand has the right to recite on the spot. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U170	Jürgen Ligi has always used to put words in his mouth. I didn't say that the more connections, the better, and that everything has to be put under asphalt. I was just talking about the perspective. In fact, any development of logistics and infrastructure is almost always accompanied by economic development, starting from a relatively distant past, you could say so. The benefits of this project are an improvement in people's mobility opportunities, as well as easier movement of trade flows from one place to another, and, ultimately, geopolitical benefits are indeed present here. These are all the things that make this project sensible so that it can be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U171	Let us continue the debate. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U172	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good friends! I'm gonna start with that train gone. And this time, luckily. I think it really is a little strange that we are still discussing here today whether or not we do. I would not object in the slightest if we were to discuss here today how to do all of this even better. I would remind you that Estonia already agreed with the European Union on 11 December 2013, three and a half years ago, and by TEN-T regulation committed itself to the construction of Rail Baltic over Pärnu. It was three and a half years ago. I'm going to use Jürgen's beautiful introduction and say that if we give up today, it literally means jumping away. We are cheating on the European Union, cheating on Latvia and cheating on Lithuania. Not only have Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania already received 733 million euros from the same CEF1 and CEF2 in total, which we have adopted. I admit that, and I fully agree with the fact that one of the risks of this project will be what the European Union's financing rate will be in the next financial period. At the same time, during this financial period, a considerable part of CEF funding will remain unused, as a number of projects have not moved forward at the speed initially envisaged. That is what Catherine Trautmann, coordinator of the North Sea-Baltic Corridor, said when she attended the conference of the Baltic Assembly, which I had the honour of chairing. We have a very big chance of getting much more money in this financial period than was originally planned. Why is this important? Above all, because we are seriously hedging the same risk as I referred to earlier, which is the level of financing in the next financial period. But this final remark does not only apply to Estonia. No project is known about the European Union's financing rate in the next financial period. However, if we get more money during this financial period, we will mitigate this risk. We'd be stupid not to use it. All the more so, if anyone feels that this is a rush, then the CEF money for this financial period can be used until 2023. We do not need to rush anywhere to set up all the money by 2020. There's no obligation, we don't have to do that. Secondly, both the National Audit Office and the Attorneys-at-Law Rask have pointed out in connection with this obligation that if we do not comply with this agreement, the consultation procedure with the European Union will follow, if we do not reach an agreement with it, then judicial proceedings will follow before the European Court of Justice and, ultimately, all of this could result in fines. This is written in the analysis carried out by Rask Attorneys-at-Law, and this is confirmed by the Auditor General. Dear friends, it would be literally a leap away, today it's too late to talk, yes or no. Today, however, it is very right to talk about how to do this better on a route that has also been agreed. When the Latvian railway comes to Ainaži, it is not conceivable that our railway will go somewhere else. As regards the amendments, I must also be somewhat critical of the coalition, I certainly cannot support this amendment by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been approved by the coalition and which I opposed. It provides for the Riigikogu to take on or be given a significantly greater role in the decision-making of the essentially executive power over budgetary policy. I do not deny this possibility if there is such a wish in this Chamber, but the agreement to ratify the Rail Baltic agreement is not the right place to do so. We've gone a long way from this deal today. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U173	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U174	This is not the place to express this desire. If Parliament wants more control over the activities of the executive in budgetary policy, it is appropriate to use the basic law of the state budget, which we did here only last week. That would be a good place. The second reason why I am opposed to this proposal is that it is well known that nothing has been added to the law on ratification of the Latvian agreement, if we add it, then we will also give Lithuania a hint of what Lithuania intends to ratify in September, so that two or three pages can be added. We don't know what that would do. That is another reason why I do not consider it reasonable to include this provision. I think that the coalition should still consider whether such an amendment is appropriate or not. But I will come back to the amount of money that it is our job to ratify or not to ratify this agreement. Once again, I recall the comment of the National Audit Office that with this agreement, which the Prime Minister of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania concluded in January of this year, we are not making any new commitments to the European Union, nor are we changing any commitments made to the European Union. I would like to add the Chancellor of Justice's comment that this is in accordance with the Constitution. By ratifying this agreement, we will not assume any additional obligations towards the European Union, although we will indeed, say, bind the three participating countries Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania to each other. I think it's important that one of the three doesn't jump out of the way. I would argue that this agreement or agreement would rather secure it. I think it's important. This is, in fact, the European Union's expectation. I was referring to Catherine Trautmann's words about the creation of these free resources. He considers it very important that we have expressed this will. There is no need to start playing around here, as Lithuania is going to do a little bit. But there is no point in pointing too much fingers at Lithuania and Latvia, because as mentioned above, there are a number of things in which we ourselves are a red lantern. We do not need to be a red lamp everywhere, so that this ratification will be a very important positive signal in terms of making the following financing decisions. The next financing decision will come at the beginning of July, in those days when there is an application for CEF3 money, but it may not be the last if we are diligent and eager. I will finish with what I talked about earlier on in my question. I find it strange that links around the world are economic growth engines, but it seems that this is not the case for many people in this Chamber. The other thing is that I have already talked about until we are weak: we are a geographically periphery of the European Union, nothing will change that, but it can be alleviated by things like Rail Baltic. The Reform Party Group, I dare say, the vast majority supports the ratification of this agreement, but that does not mean that the coalition should give itself a discount here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U175	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U176	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's really nice to come up here and talk to you after all these great speakers. I still have cultural contradictions with Lord Kivimägi. Lord Kivimägi, I must admit that when I was young, the word "red lantern" meant something entirely different. I don't know how you used it. But you also said, as a basic message, that it was too late today. Maybe that's how it is. But I must admit, then, that I am certainly one of those people who, when it was not too late, when, by your definition, it was probably the right time, did not yet know how to shape their position. My position has only developed over the last six months. If you're saying it's too late, what are we supposed to do, not press a button at all? I don't get it right now, maybe there's some kind of work left to do with me. People's representative Ligi here used the word 'Michurinian'. I have also recently said, if necessary, that Estonia has reached a certain era of political michurinism. But I'm afraid most of our younger compatriots don't understand what this michurinlus means. Mitchurinlus, in a bad way or in the way we are talking, meant a situation where, in the name of a bright future, decisions were made that where there are mountains, valleys must be dug, and where there are valleys, mountains must be piled together, rivers must be made to move against the river, etc. This phenomenon is probably longer than the Soviet era. Younger generations may be better off with the comparisons that Jonathan Swift used in his 'Gulliver travels', perhaps in the penultimate part of his activity on a flying island. There are also such reform plans, namely, first, the water is pumped to the top of the mountain, so that when it flows down it can do a useful job and make everyone's life happy, and then it is very wondered why the result is not quite like this and why, in reality, it doesn't make sense. But that's it. I think most of us did not imagine when we applied for the current composition of the Riigikogu, that we would have to vote on such a question. It's kind of an unusual situation. I was beginning to wonder if I could find a shape on it. It was recalled that in my childhood, during the Soviet era, one such book of children had been translated into Estonian, entitled 'Russian heroes'. There was a ancient warrior standing on a crossroads in a steppe, wondering which way to go. There was such a sign before him that if you turn right, you lose your head, if you turn to the other side, you lose your horse, and if you go straight, the way is in front of you as a wall. That's kind of how it was. I didn't count it when I got ready for today's speech. But the situation is impossible, and it is such an impossible shape. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U177	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U178	Surely this is not about Russian fairy tales. I'm not a fairy tale scientist, but I think Aarne-Thompson's catalogue of fairy tale topics probably lists this kind of situation in all nations. So what's the situation in front of us now? When I look back, I remember three phases. First of all, Siim Kallas brought this great idea to Estonia. This had to be very useful for security reasons in the first place. Secondly, it had to be very economical, because much of the goods are going to move through Estonia, just as the goods are waiting for such a road to be completed as soon as possible. Thirdly, this is perhaps the most important thing, we do not have to keep records ourselves, this money is like found on the ground, we just have to stretch out and take it. That was phase one. I have to admit, I couldn't go into it at the time, whether it made sense or not. Then the second phase came when specific business plans began to develop. I think Mr Kivimägi has shown quite nicely here that people, especially those who are local entrepreneurs, businessmen, who are close to this potential route in West Estonia, began to think that there will be opportunities for work and service here in the future. The second part of Estonia's people set up business plans to make this plan work. Perhaps this is the main problem now, because these people have received income for themselves and their families in connection with this project and they want it to continue. In some ways, the limits of courtesy and morality have been exceeded, and the same money has been used to shape the opinion of the Estonian people. Recently, I listened to a PR specialist and lobbyist who has received part of his income over the last few years, namely to make this plan as acceptable as possible to Estonians. At some point the third phase began, when all those people who are currently opposed to this plan, at least in the form that it was intended to take, joined and formed their position quite massively in Estonia. One such letter came to us all today by e-mail, where many prominent cultural figures are calling on us not to ratify this Treaty. I've been thinking. I'm upset about a lot of things here. One is this typical Russian madness, which was characteristic of the entire Soviet era. I'm sure there's a problem here that it's nice to be a successful businessman with foreign money and no responsibility, but I'm sure it's also upsetting backwards logic here, top-down logic. Now my time is up. Personally, I will vote against this draft, thinking about my electorate and my political supporters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U179	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U180	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The year was 1936 when the Baltic Express issues were discussed at the international conference in Switzerland. It was a very serious concern that the train was slow, and it was precisely our neighbours, the Baltic States, that had not taken action in order to be able to travel faster by train. The year was 1994 when it was agreed in a vision that high-speed connections were a priority and that Europe's peripheral states should have a stronger sense of cohesion and austerity with Europe, precisely through infrastructure projects. Colleagues, today is the time to make a decision, to be in favour or against, and to move on according to this decision. Indeed, it was somewhat strange to hear these statements that the subject was not sufficiently analysed and that there was no complete information. I think that in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, too, no person has psychic powers; no one can predict the future very accurately. Perhaps the almighty must be thanked that we do not have these powers, because the government's leadership does not take place on the basis of predictions, but is still following current circumstances, listening to the people and interacting with the people. I think Rail Baltic has been a project like that. The truth is that the farmer's concern has been his farm and a particular piece of land. The local government's concerns have been as to how this route corridor has a specific impact on the state of life of the local government and whether this leads to additional budgetary responsibilities. Indeed, the concern of the state is that apart from the positive factors that this project may bring, it is necessary to consider the wallet, the outcome of a particular procurement. It is justified to worry about all these issues in this Chamber of Riigikogu, but I very much hope that this will not be done by the Riigikogu, where there is a Rail Baltic Support Group, we will at one point also open up this Chamber, on the side of the opponents of the discussion in this House, in order to keep this subject constantly in the air as a discussion. As you know, I have been chosen from Pärnu. To be honest, the people of Pärnu have been quite concerned during this whole discussion of Rail Baltic. They've been called the boogers, it's been said that Rail Baltic is going through somewhere where there are no people. In the context of Rail Baltic, I believe most of all that time-space distances will be reduced and there will be a situation where Pärnu could, figuratively speaking, be located where Keila is today and Riga where Pärnu is today. So this project has an impact on regional development. I hope that in ten years' time, we will also hear less and less of this hall, that some small town has its inhabitants, that there are no people, and that there should not be developments in the country. Good luck and a sober and clear mind! I believe we can manage Rail Baltic together, and our children will be grateful for what we have done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U181	Mart Helme, is that the line? [[Shout from the hall.]] You're coming to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U182	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of words have been done, and I don't want to make too many more. I want to say one thing. There are a great many people in all the political groups in this Chamber who understand that this project is being sold to us with lies, fraud and false information, that we do not have any clarity as to what burdens this will bring to our taxpayer and our state budget, what benefits and what damage it will bring. Then they tell us the train's gone, now it's too late. The train hasn't left and it's not too late. I went out of the hall for a second, and when I came back, I felt it smelled in this hall, it smelled like cowardice and greed. Ladies and gentlemen, in all the political groups that you oppose this project! Take your courage and at least don't vote. Show that you really are the mind that you are telling us about around the corner of the hall: no, I am against it, I will not give my vote in any way! Show me in this hall that you're doing it. You know, otherwise I have this feeling that we're slowly shifting to some time we've come from, and one day it's obvious that everyone has to be in favour, because with those who are not in favor, it can happen the way with a 17th century heretic, a woman who was first skinned alive and then hanged. Let us not let the freedom to express our opinion be suppressed by the political groups and by the leading politicians behind the groups. Let us be independent and courageous, and let us drive the smell of cowardice and self-interest out of this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U183	Are there any other requests to speak? No. In that case, the situation smells like we are going to examine the amendments. There are five of them. The first has been presented by Igor Gräzin, Martin Helme, Artur Talvik and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is not to be taken into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The second amendment has been tabled by Igor Gräzin, Artur Talvik and Martin Helme, the decision of the commission is to be disregarded. This proposal also does not belong to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act pursuant to § 106, in particular paragraph 2 thereof. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U184	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Our group is asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U185	That's what we do. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Amendment 3. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 16 votes in favour and 71 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Igor Gräzin, this vote is closed. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U186	The vote is yes closed, but what did we vote on, either the Commission proposal or the EKRE proposal? The formula was to ignore who's in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U187	Now it's really complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U188	I mean, formulate...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U189	The chair of the sitting said explicitly, as it was said in the old days, that we were voting on the amendment of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, and then added that the decision of the lead committee was not to be taken into account. In other words, this majority, against 71 and by 16 members of the Riigikogu, proves that it was understood unambiguously. The next amendment, the fourth amendment, has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U190	Thank you. The Reform Party Group would like to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-19_U191	Dear Riigikogu, are we ready to vote? I shall put to the vote Amendment 4, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The decision of the Governing Commission is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 67 votes in favour and 21 against. The amendment was supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. Dear Riigikogu, we have examined five amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 449. Let's get ready for this. Ladies and gentlemen, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this draft as a law, we will please do a verification of the presence. There are 90 people present, 11 missing. I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, 449. Please take a stand and vote. There were 63 votes in favour and 20 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Honourable Riigikogu, this hammer won't hit you for a while now, but I have a few more messages for you. First of all, on 28 June there will be a formal sitting in this Chamber on the 25th anniversary of the vote on the Constitution. Therefore, I ask you to take all important materials from your desks and drawers. Secondly, Igor Gräzin asks that immediate, half-two gatherings be held in room L241. There are those who are interested in the work of the Parliament's Dignity Support Group. The messages have sounded. I wish you a beautiful summer, which is known to be busy! See you later! Closure of the sitting at 1.30 p.m.
