ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, now you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good morning to you all. I will hand over the draft decision prepared by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Social Democratic Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. With this draft, we want to create a problem committee to deal with the population crisis. As our coalition agreement says, solving the problems of the Estonian population is the main challenge of the new government. The creation of a Committee on Problems is one step towards this objective. The main objective of the Demographic Crisis Problem Committee is to tackle the issue in depth, to find bottlenecks and to find solutions that should make things roll the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U3	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You know, good friends! If you are at all possible, I would ask for attention, because I believe that our work is a very important milestone today. When my acquaintances found out before the elections that I was running for office in the Riigikogu, a lot of people said, "Don't be stupid, there's nothing we can do anyway, a pointless place." My year and a half here with you has shown that you can actually do what you really want. Today, the milestone is one of the most important issues, namely the state reform. Not much is wanted to talk about state reform in this house, but all kinds of institutions, entrepreneurs, lawyers and other nice people have talked about it. Today, then, we have come so far that we are setting up a Committee on Problems to discuss the issue of state reform. The Socialist leadership has done quite a lot of work on this in the meantime. In fact, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been working in a separate working group, and we have discussed the reform of the state here as an important national issue. Today, I have the honour to pass on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a 'Problem Committee of the Riigikogu for the development of developments in state reform'. I am pleased to say that it has been submitted by three political groups: the Social Democratic Party, the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Thank you for taking this issue seriously and for the strength to take this work forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U5	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present and missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U6	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we have on the agenda the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Appointing members of the council of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. I would point out that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to put an oral question to the rapporteur during the debate on this item. I would like to ask Toomas Jürgenstein, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U7	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft concerns the appointment of members of the council of the National Library of Estonia, a member of the Riigikogu. The reasons are simple. On 14 December 2016, the Committee on Culture submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu to appoint new members of the Riigikogu, because Mark Soosaar, a member of the Riigikogu, had resigned from the seat of a member of the Riigikogu and Aadu Must, a member of the Riigikogu had resigned. According to § 8 (7) of the Estonian National Library Act, the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Cultural Commission, appoints new members to the Council until the end of the term of office of the members to be replaced. In the Committee on Culture, we were very united. The Social Democratic Party Group's proposal was to appoint my pinginary Barbi Pilvre to the National Library Council, and the Estonian Centre Party Group's proposal was to appoint Toomas Väinaste to the Council. The Committee on Culture also decided that the representative of the Commission was here to speak, and we also proposed a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U8	Thank you. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U9	Thank you. Good waitress! You described very precisely the legal bases of this decision. But where is the moral of this decision? After all, the people have read many texts and headlines about how councils are cleansed of members of the Riigikogu. At one point, it was as if the main motive for overthrowing the government. The reasons can, of course, be discussed for a long time, and they certainly exist, but it was like this opening bang that we clean up the councils from members of the Riigikogu, politicians are not fit for it. Where is the morals of this decision and the regulation of this law? How can one member of the Riigikogu be councilable at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U10	Thank you. That is a fair question and I would have been surprised if this question had not come. I remember Rainer Vakra was asked about an analogous question some time ago. I guess I was getting ready for this, and I'd actually answer with a story. It's about two chess chefs. Andres Ammas will fix me if I remember this story wrong. These are Boris Spassky, who was the champion of the world in the years of 1969 to 1972, and our own eternal second Paul Keres. It's in Boris Spask's memories. He had become a world champion and bought a new car, drove it, and Keres sat next to him. There were quite a few traffic signs with speed limits. Spask had a new car, he had said so many meaningless restrictions. Keres had responded to him about this way, perhaps I have not very accurately remembered that as long as the laws are not ideal, we live according to the laws that are. I think I'd say something like that. I, too, am relatively skeptical about membership of the councils of members of the Riigikogu, but in this case we live according to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U11	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U12	Thank you. Good Thomas, very good story! [[Laughter.]] In my opinion, members of the Riigikogu could be members of councils, including company councils. The only thing that matters is that those who appoint members can at least explain in three sentences why these people should be part of a specific Council. But I ask you whether you have discussed in your political group or in the coalition presidency how far it is to establish a committee for the appointment of Soviet assembly, which was very much part of your coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U13	Thank you. The honest answer is, right now, I owe you an answer. It may be that this is my imperfect memory, but I do not remember that I would have been involved in some sort of assembly, whether formal or non-formal, where something would have happened on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U14	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U15	Thank you. Can you specify the remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board and who are the other members of the Supervisory Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U16	Other members of the Supervisory Board are Igor Gräzin, Member of the Riigikogu, Jüri Järs, Director of the Library of Tallinn University of Technology, Priit Pirsko, the State Archiver, and according to the position of the Supervisory Board, Maria Alajõe, Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Tarvi Sits, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture, are members of the Supervisory Board. According to the bill, Barbi Pilvre and Toomas Väinaste are now added.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U17	Thank you. Kalle Palling, you can only ask one question within this item. Next, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, you have not answered Arto Asa's second question. Please answer that too!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U19	Thank you. I'm sorry! I was referring to my selective memory earlier. This fee is easy to find, but right now I really don't know it. We can sit down later, google a little, and we'll find an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U20	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U21	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! What would you suggest that this fair reward could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U22	I have been a schoolteacher for the days of my life, and I have not always avoided that when it comes to a question that is not fundamental, when someone moves in the front row with his mouth or utters an answer. I don't name names, but my ears sounded like 60 euros somewhere. I think it's 60 euros a month. So it is a great honour for me to have my thoughts in line with what the legislator has said so far. I'm guessing 60 euros a month. If I'm wrong, we'll check together later. That's the answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U23	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. I have heard such rumors that the Minister of Culture has proposed to recall a member of the Riigikogu from the council of Endla Theatre SA. With reference to your values and principles, is this not a double standard where membership of the National Library is accepted in the Council, but is not considered justified in the case of an identical SA Endla Theatre?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U25	Thank you. I understand it's still a hearing. I find it quite difficult to comment on what I have not checked myself. But it seems to me that my moral basis, as I believe to be called, is still the same words of Paul Keres. The laws are imperfect. We all strive to make them more perfect. In which case the status of members of the Riigikogu in the councils is justified and where this may make sense to me, I admit that this is such a subject that I am certainly not ready to respond to at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U26	Next, please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You can't tell exactly what this fee is right now, and we have to offer here that about 60 euros, plus or minus. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to come back here with this bill next week and we could get a more accurate overview? The decision on who will become a member of the Council is still very responsible. I don't think it can be decided here as quickly as possible and press the green button. I think it requires a very thorough analysis and clarification. What do you think of the proposal to take this thing back now and come back to the hall next week? Let's just go over the facts and the circumstances that the rate of pay is and everything else is going to be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U28	Good Jack, thank you! Like I said, I have a 25-year-old schoolteacher experience. I sense quite precisely when they say it wrong and when they say it right. I fully agree that there are people in this Chamber that are far more competent on this matter than I am. I sensed help from these more competent people, and I trust them. So I see no reason to withdraw this bill. But the question is certainly well-founded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U29	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U30	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! There's been so much talk about money here. Speaking of me, I would be willing to go to this council without any money, that is, 60 euros, if you need it. My question, however, is substantive. There are different councils in the country, in this case it is a national library, I stress, a national library. Do you also see that this Council is one that we should be involved in?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U31	Thank you. I have quite a few temptations here to set my mind off. I did not say that was a good question again. This relates a little to this issue at all. Indeed, the National Library, the National Opera, the composition of which will be discussed by us in the coming week, I am not sure. I'm slow thinking, let's leave the answer to that question to the cafeteria. It seems to me that here we can bring the right number of philosophers into the game, even religion. Right now, I'm getting a little hard on my mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U32	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U33	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Interestingly, not a word has been spoken today about the person who is running or is meant for this place. I think that if we had to make such a decision, who and if so, it would be absolutely elementary for the honourable speaker to also give us an overview of the background of the candidate, or Barbi Pilvre, his actions, his plans in the Council, which is exactly why he is suitable for this place, not another person, etc. I'd like that kind of information, too! Without it, it is not possible to decide. Isn't there some kind of conflict of interest here because it's an old journalist?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U34	Thank you. I think the question is natural. I'm not sure about the conflict of interest. Barbi Pilvre is a member of the Riigikogu. All of us, not all of us, but many of us have once held very different jobs. My first job was an engineer at the zoology museum, and then there's gonna be other strange jobs, and I've been a fireman. To look for a conflict of interest from the office that was never held does not make much sense to me. But I can assure you that Barbi Pilvre is a very charming and pleasant conversational companion, and I feel that maybe I'm not even worthy of characterizing her. So the Riigikogu cafe is definitely a suitable place for you to ask your colleague the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U35	Next Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You have stressed your teaching position on several occasions. Personally, I am sure to be grateful that you have taken such a mission in your life and have held this profession. But I had a dilemma as a result of what I had to say. How would you react to a student who has come to answer you and complements your knowledge by saying in advance? Would you send him back right away and ask him to come back or make a slight remark, lower the grade and point out that next time you might not use any help from a stranger?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U37	Thank you. In fact, this is a question about today's school system or school in general. Take the test, for example. I admit that we may have gone a little far from the subject of the bill. I know that some teachers think it's for writing off. I really like it. The materials are in the front, the student must find ways to create connections, how to find focus points. I've also done tests in groups, i.e. two or three. It seems to me that today's world requires quite a lot of such teamwork. And the numbers are with Google, and I'm gonna say it in a ferocious way, but there's a lot of other possibilities besides Google that's gonna be easy to find. So if a student tells you of some missing fact, the age of life or, for example, the time of the event, what happened before what and after what happened. But what was their exact timing... Aadu Black may be looking at me a little critically, but it's a pretty quick time with today's technology. So, generally speaking, when it comes to certain facts, I have patted on my shoulder and have not usually done anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U38	Laine Randjärv next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U39	Thank you, manager. Good Thomas! I'm not helping you right now because you've been a teacher and a very beloved teacher of my children at Hugo Treffner High School, but because I'm helping you as a good colleague. In fact, there are certain statements that are based on facts. I would like to say to the Chamber that there is an Estonian National Library Act and there is such a sentence: 'The member of the Board is paid a minimum fee of up to two months per year according to his participation in the meetings. " In other words, this 60 euro may also be variable because it depends on what the minimum wage is for one year or another. This fee is calculated on the basis of a "statistical result' and may therefore be different. So, good Thomas, for you as a good colleague of the Committee on Culture, such a small advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U40	Thank you. This shows how group work or role - playing can help to explain certain topics in today's school.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U41	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U42	Thank you, manager. Dear Thomas, You're talking very sympatheticly about general education, and I think it's really helpful. Does it not seem to you, however, that this Soviet issue of explaining what is the Board of Foundations, which is the board of companies, etc., is so confusing and excites so deeply, especially in terms of remuneration, our colleagues from the Reform Party that they should take a detention lesson? I recently had one of those cases where a member of the Reform Party who had left Parliament to date was filled with holy anger, why he was called back from the council of the clinic to which he had been appointed by the minister, but Aadu Black from the wrong party or just from the right party, go now to the council of the University of Tartu Hospital. Even though I was a representative of the city, I really resigned to reassure him that he would not have the great, horrible offense. Apparently, these issues are very confusing. Is there some sort of helping out for good colleagues who do not understand this issue well? Obviously this should not be done in the Committee on Culture. Where are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U43	Thank you. Whether you call it a debriefing hour or a class of clear talk, I think it's a good idea. I am very grateful for the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U44	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do the members of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, Jürgen Ligi, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Dark One got grumpy for nothing. Today's discussion was, of course, benevolently fun, not evil, but the subject itself is completely serious. I think we have done Riigikogu and parliamentarianism with this as a disservice that we have allowed such titles and attitudes into the public agenda that the members of the Riigikogu are somehow dirty, that they must not belong to any governing bodies and that this is somehow corrupt or even a reason to overthrow the government. The members of the Riigikogu are, however, representatives of the public and the question is not in their office. The membership of the councils of foundations and companies, or of the councils of public institutions, of members of the Riigikogu, is not in itself contrary to the Constitution. This is a myth created by one of the Chancellors of Justice, the rest of the Chancellors of Justice have not agreed to it. The problem is only the way they are determined. In this case, we appoint members of the Riigikogu to the National Library Council in a very impeccable manner, and our group has absolutely nothing against it. Sometimes we may be questioning the people who are assigned there, not the people themselves, but their competence. For example, we believe that the goat herd is not a small opera choir model, and therefore, based on this experience, it should not be part of the National Opera Council. But we don't have anything against this person either, because his life experience is certainly valuable, just not embellishing the process. It certainly does not make this process dirty, but the person who has the relevant education, management experience, has been assigned to a board of state companies somewhere. No, I have been a member of several councils of state-owned companies, I have had a valuable experience there, I have always been rather the most active and substantive member of the board. And I don't regret it, I don't think I'm dirty. I have management experience, I have economic education, I have entrepreneurship education, I have other education that allows me to participate in strategic management. I've also been through strategic management courses, international courses that allow me to deal with this kind of thing. In this sense, I am not ashamed at all that I belong to the Council and say that I could continue to belong. Let us not smear ourselves, let us not smear parliamentarianism as such, and let us really do this in substance. I do not think that this must result in members of the Riigikogu being part of the councils, but we should wash ourselves off from the political smear in which we have been involved ourselves. As far as I know, there have been no such significant suspicions of corruption among the members of the Riigikogu, no cases of conflict of interest in the councils. As far as I know, there weren't any. There have been ex-members of the Riigikogu, there have been people of political background, but not because they are members of the Riigikogu. So let's all vote unanimously in favour of this council and be friendly, let's not be evil! Today we had time, today we had fun, but the subject is actually serious and concerns us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U46	Thank you. Speaking on the spot, Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U47	I was slightly disturbed by my colleague Jürgen Ligi's insulting line on Martin Repinski, which was a uniquely identifiable personal attack. At the same time, I would ask as chairman of the Committee on Culture, because only the Committee on Culture has the power to amend the drafts that are submitted to the members of the Council, whether Jürgen Ligi is standing for membership of the Council of the National Opera because he is always so helpful, so kind, has spoken everywhere and helped. I'm willing to propose to Martin Repinski to withdraw my candidacy for Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, We have no direct provision for such arrangements as to enable us to play ping-pong when sitting there. But in response to the obvious wish of Aadu Black, I will give Jürgen Ligi the opportunity to rejoin. Here you go, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U49	Honestly, it never occurred to me that I should be a member of the Estonian Council. It never occurred to me! I don't have the proper preparation, and I wouldn't be credible there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-12_U50	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu! Due to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to this draft could be tabled. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 353, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint members of the council of the National Library of Estonia, submitted by the Committee on Culture, draft 353. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 1 against and 5 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. I wish everyone an effective week of work. Closure of the sitting at 10.35 a.m.
