ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 8th working week of the V session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U2	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have the honour to hand over a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act in order to strengthen parliamentary supervision. This is a draft that should give the Committee of Inquiry a better tool. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this draft, the Free Party has proposed a compromise and has taken out the coercion of a person in the draft tabled last time before the Committee of Inquiry. At the same time, we have retained the mechanism of coercion. We are still convinced that if the committees of inquiry do not have the tools we propose here, there is no point in holding them at all. Now, it has gone absurd, because even if a sanction is to be imposed for a misdemeanor, it does not work. I hope you will support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U3	I have adopted one draft which will be processed on the basis of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! The machine counted a total of 87 members of the Riigikogu who are present at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U4	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. The first is the first reading of the draft decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and appointment of a new member' presented by the Social Affairs Committee. In short, the procedure for this procedure. After the presentation of the commission, one question can be asked to the rapporteur. Only the representatives of the political groups will take part in the negotiations and a final vote will take place. Please, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küttt!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning, everyone! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the removal of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the appointment of a new member. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has dealt with this issue in its four sessions. The first of these took place on 9 January, where the Commission decided to send a letter to the political groups of the Riigikogu and to ask for proposals on the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund by Friday, 13 January. The second meeting took place on 17 January and then the Commission decided to postpone the submission of this draft by a week. The next meeting was held on 20 February and then we presented the proposals received. By January 13, only the Reform Party had submitted its candidate, Maris Lauri. The Commission took the following decisions: On 7 March, it was proposed that this draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 16 March. The consensus also proposed to put the draft to the final vote and to appoint a speaker before you, the chairman of the committee, Helmen Küttt, as rapporteur. When presenting this draft, I would certainly like to point out that Viktor Vassilyev, who has so far carried out this task, did his work excellently. The Commission had appointed the Health Insurance Fund to represent the Social Affairs Committee in the Council, and not only the Social Affairs Committee. As Viktor told us at his last meeting, he represented the Estonian people, just as we all represent the Estonian people from the voters in this Chamber, who have obtained their mandate. He represented the people very well, and his competence as a medical officer certainly made the work of this council more meaningful. At the same time, I am absolutely convinced that Maris Lauri, who is now in the Council to represent the Social Affairs Committee and the Estonian people in general, is doing this work excellently. As an economic man, he will certainly master the subject. I have the proposal to support the draft as proposed, i.e. to recall Viktor Vassilyev and appoint Maris Lauri as a member of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. I would like to make it clear that the words 'good practice' have somehow devalued in this Chamber; they have asked what good practice does mean. In the Committee on Social Affairs, it has been good practice for the Health Insurance Fund's board to include the chairman of the committee ex officio, i.e. in terms of office, and in addition one member of the committee, who has usually been a representative of the opposition. That is also why this exchange is taking place now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U6	No questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 394. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and appointment of a new member' draft 394. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of adopting the draft, no one is against, one person is impartial. The decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and appointment of a new member' has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U7	We will begin the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions' of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Honourable Riigikogu, the procedural practice of this point is that rapporteurs can be asked one question and only the representatives of the political groups take part in the negotiations. The launcher's waitress is Lauri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U8	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! According to § 90 (1) (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Group of the Estonian Reform Party submits a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions', which we wish to amend the Riigikogu Decision of 7 May 2015 'Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Institutions'. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party wishes to make the following amendment to the above decision: to appoint Mr Kalle Laanet as a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, replacing Mr Arto Aasa, and his alternate member, Mr Arto Aasa. The amendment is due to the fact that Arto Aas was appointed as a member of the problem committee of the Riigikogu set up to develop developments in state reform. This Decision would enter into force upon its adoption at the time of its signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U9	Questions for the waitress. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U10	Good waitress! We have such a security problem that the former Director General of the Special Branch exercises control over his own actions. I mean, it's the same person. If it's not a conflict of interest, what is it? The Chancellor of Justice also said that this was a serious conflict of interest. I mean, I'll do it, I'll do it, I'll check it, I'll forgive you. This is the situation in the committee dealing with the most sensitive issue. If you, as a representative of the Reform Party and all of us, offer to exchange a member of this special committee, would you not think of that question? In particular, the Chancellor hopes that this person will withdraw on his own initiative on the basis of so-called self-governance. But he hasn't withdrawn yet. So what happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U11	Thank you. That is a very appropriate question. I think that if there is a conflict of interest, it must definitely be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U12	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U13	Thank you. Honourable waitress! My question is inspired by the question of Igor Gräzin. As we know, Parliament is supervising the executive. There's a lot of former executives sitting in this hall. Do you see a conflict of interest in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U14	I do not think that, in the context of this bill, there is such an in-depth debate. I see no reason why we should start thoroughly dissecting this subject here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U15	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U16	Honourable Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft decision submitted on 7 March. No amendments were received. One more question was asked as to why such a rigor would be necessary. This was explained and then a vote was taken on whether to place this draft on the agenda for the meeting on 16 March, put it to a final vote and appoint Arto Aas as rapporteur. All the affirmative decisions were made in a joyful consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U17	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Arto Aas! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 390. No amendments were tabled. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, 390. Please take a stand and vote. There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U18	The next item is the second reading of the Draft Act 379 on the ratification and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Denmark on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. Waitress Marko Šorin from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U19	Good Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First reading of bill 379 was completed in this Chamber on 22 February, including. The deadline for amendments was set at 4 p.m. on Friday 3 March. No amendments were received. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to deal with the draft at its meeting on 6 March and decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft, a final vote and the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U20	Questions for the waitress. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! It is like a titled agreement that is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Denmark. On the Estonian side, it is clear that the signatory has been a government, but who has been a contractual partner for the Kingdom of Denmark? Has it also been a government, or is it someone else, such as a king or a government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U22	There's no king in Denmark, there's a queen. But governments still communicate with each other. However, the agreement will be terminated by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U23	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the Commission's proposal is a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the "Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments" initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, 379. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft, there was no one against and there were two abstentions. Bill 379 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U24	We will discuss the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Honourable Riigikogu, in short, also procedural practice, which is somewhat specific. Let's start with the Chancellor of Justice's report, and then we can ask him questions. Then comes the presentation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and thereafter the presentation of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations there will be negotiations, where representatives of committees and political groups and other members of the Riigikogu may take place. Like a member of the Government of the Republic, the Chancellor of Justice has the right to participate later in the negotiations. After the negotiations, the vote shall take place. Let's go! Please, Chancellor Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U25	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The proposal submitted to you on 7 February this year to bring the law mentioned by the Chairman of the Riigikogu into line with the principle of freedom of business, in conjunction with the principle of legal certainty, began with the following paragraph: 'The state is not only right but also an obligation to protect public health. Alcohol is one of the biggest causes of health damage in Estonia, so restricting the production, sale and consumption of alcohol is basically necessary and justified. However, this must not be done in violation of the Constitution. ' Honourable representatives of the people! It tends to be that when it comes to taxes, especially alcohol, and the restriction of buying or using it (these are different things), it tends to get emotional. I would like to stress that we obviously all agree: in Estonia, excessive alcohol consumption and the resulting damage to both health and the legal system are a problem. We agree on that, and this is in no way a matter of today's debate. There are, in fact, three questions in today's debate. They all fit under one denominator to what extent, or whether there are any legal certainty issues in the Estonian legal space, there are three sub-questions: what matters, and to what extent, the Riigikogu can make fixed-term promises, under which conditions or whether these promises may be broken before the deadline, and to what extent a government coalition can limit the possibility of imposing fixed-term promises by the following coalitions to pursue their policies. It is therefore a question of the rule of law, legitimate expectations, predictability of the business environment. Is it constitutional to increase excise duty and freedom of business, which has been proposed for years in law, and which severely restricts freedom of business? In view of the arguments of the Supreme Court in the case of mining law fees, with which most of you, I know, are familiar thanks to previous discussions, the answer should be: no, the amendments made at the end of December are not constitutional. In the present case, however, there is one difference: the authors of the amendment claim that, in the summer of 2015, the provisions of § 8512 of the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act preclude the legitimate expectations of economic operators. Maybe, but maybe not. This is why clarity is needed before very high excise duties enter into force on 1 July, including. This clarity is needed both in the current debate and, in fact, in the future. So no matter how the Supreme Court ultimately decides on this matter, this clarity is, in my opinion, a victory in any case. When I took office, I promised the Riigikogu that, if necessary, I would ask the Riigikogu, of course, to evaluate matters before this problem was discussed in the Riigikogu, even if there are equal arguments for and against constitutionality, but there is confusion in society. This is the case. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! If you do what is already referred to by the long name of § 8512 of the Law, what do you see? In principle, it is the same as the undertakings. The title of this section is 'Analysis of the change in the rate of excise duty'. It's a title. It does not mention the exclusion of legitimate expectations or the increase in excise duties. No, it says 'analysis'. The provision is included in the implementing provisions. It was added to it at the last minute and in some 30 very complicated procedural material, with a rather conflicting story and a rather contradictory explanatory statement. However, the content of this provision is as follows: 'The Government of the Republic shall submit to the Riigikogu, no later than 1 March 2018, an analysis and, if necessary, a proposal to amend the rate of excise duty if the amendments laid down in this Act or adopted in June 2015 may result in negative effects, including public health, consumption, business or the receipt of excise duty, which do not meet expectations. " What does this paragraph, along with its story and title, say to the reader? Does it really make it clear that at any time excise duty can be exponentially increased, so that they are given within a given time limit, and so what if analysis does not show that the impact on public health was bad? Or does it mean something else? When I read that standard, I don't think it makes any sense. Of course, it was said to be clear to the entrepreneurs that I was not in the talks at the Ministry of Finance that this provision ensures that excise duties will not be increased before the next Riigikogu elections in spring 2019. Letters of explanation, pretty or ugly stories or expert analyses do not create or end legitimate expectations, that is clear. What is in place and what is being implemented is a norm, not a story that went along with it. However, the strength of the bar is also stressed by the fact that the basic document on Estonian alcohol policy, the Green Paper on alcohol policy drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and discussed by the government in 2014, recommends an increase in excise duty of 5% per year on average over the next four years. This means that an increase of up to 88% in the excise duty rates on lean alcohol was completely unpredictable for economic operators. I can tell you all this here with a clear conscience, because at the meeting of the Government of the Republic held in early summer 2015, I explained: firstly, there is no time limit for making commitments on tax rates for years, and secondly, if they are given, it limits the right of a possible next government coalition to pursue its own policy. Certainly, certain promises should not extend beyond the Riigikogu elections. No coalition should perpetuate its policy and therefore the law, including the tax rates, should be able to change it if necessary. That is why, for me, the basic core of this dispute and the hope of the Supreme Court's decision is that it is said whether a term-based promise in the Estonian legal order guarantees the trust of the entrepreneur that it will not be changed without exceptional circumstances or not. I would like to have the opportunity to make credible fixed-term promises, for example, in order to attract some kind of investment into Estonia, to develop green energy or reasonable infrastructure, even for six years, and indeed so that these promises will not be changed. If, at the moment, the position remains that a term promise can actually always be changed, then I am afraid that this measure, which has been in the hands of the Riigikogu and which, in my opinion, is effective, will lose its value. I believe that this is not desirable, but it will be decided by the Supreme Court if it comes to this. Taxes do not necessarily have to be set in advance for years; this is not an area. If anyone wants to make forecasts and show them to the European Union, this can be done in the country's budgetary strategy. European Union law does not require these rules to be enshrined in the law. It doesn't make sense if they can still be changed. So the country's budget strategy fits very well. Yes, it is also possible that, for example, the rates of excise duty will be written in advance for years and will be clearly stated there: traders, do not believe, it may not remain in force. I think it's a worse practice. However, if, for example, excise duty on alcohol is to maintain such a proportion between the price of alcohol and the increase in income that the purchase and consumption of alcohol does not increase, then the appropriate coefficient is much more appropriate. This is not a term promise, it can always be changed. There are therefore reasonable alternatives to fixed-term tax promises. In conclusion, I consider that the increase in excise duty rates before 2019, without any exceptional circumstances having occurred or that the analysis would have shown serious harm to public health, is contrary to the principle of freedom to conduct a business laid down in § 31 of the Constitution in conjunction with the principle of legal certainty laid down in § 10. Honourable Riigikogu! I know from committee discussions that my proposal is unlikely to be supported this time. That is the right of the Riigikogu. In turn, the Chancellor of Justice is obliged to turn to the Supreme Court in such a case. I would stress that this is a normal and constitutional process. We must achieve clarity and preferably before 1 July. I thank the Riigikogu for the meaningful discussion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you for listening. As usual, I am very happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U26	Questions for the Chancellor of Justice. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I very much agree with your view that the predictability of the tax environment is crucial in attracting investments to Estonia, and that such steps will certainly undermine confidence in the state and demonstrate the faculty of speech. We in the Commission also spoke briefly about gas excise duty. Among other things, this bill included an additional increase in gas excise duty compared to what was already the case. You said in the Commission that this analysis is somewhere in the final phase. So what's the state of it, and is your approach to gas excise similar to that of alcohol excise, and we're going to have a dispute here in a couple of weeks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U28	Thank you! Yes, the next phase of the analysis of the so-called cluster bill is underway. I don't want to publish the conclusion right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U29	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U30	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! It is certainly reasonable for the Riigikogu to examine this issue and I am pleased that you have come here with this problem. The principle of legal certainty is something that Estonia's business environment is very much looking forward to and needs. It is not a question of whether there is a majority in the Riigikogu or not. In the course of your analysis, was the question of the procedure in the Riigikogu discussed, in addition to the so-called 'normative check' and constitutional compliance, that the amendments were put to the second draft that had been given to the proceedings of the Riigikogu in the past? Was it in your focus, too, or were you based solely on a norm check and that there might be a contradiction with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U31	Thank you! Of course, I follow the activities of the Riigikogu with great interest. But when I propose to you, I am strictly based on the Constitution and the oath of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your speech, you referred several times to the need for coalition politicians to have the right to implement their policies. But do you think there are fundamental principles and certain values for the Estonian state? Is the implementation of the coalition's promises in haste and at whatever cost really justified? I also mean that similar cases may occur six months or a year before the end of this coalition period. You also referred to the mandate of the Riigikogu for four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U34	Yes, this is a central issue of this dispute and I think it is very important that one coalition may limit the decision-making power of the following coalitions when pursuing its policy with term promises, assuming that the views of the Supreme Court on the binding nature of term promises remain. As I have explained to you, I do not believe that tax rates, including excise duties, are an area where, for example, firm promises should be made for four years, which can only be broken in exceptional circumstances. At the same time, there are areas where this is undeniably necessary, and that is why the principle that a fixed-term promise is binding should be respected, such promises are not made in areas where it is not urgently needed and that the following coalitions also adhere to the promises once they have been made. It is not an entrepreneur or any other person's concern whether some fixed-term promise was made in the right field or in the wrong area. Everyone must have reason to believe that the state behaves as prescribed by the Constitution, as a person has the right to wait, for example, on the basis of the current practice of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U35	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Your contested bill for tax changes was processed here in the Riigikogu at the end of last year in 15 days. At the moment, there is a situation where within the 20 days provided for in the law, it was not possible to discuss your proposal because of the activities of the management board and committees of the Riigikogu. It is not possible to vote on whether or not to make a legislative amendment on your proposal, as the deadline of 20 days has passed. Does this deadline of 20 days laid down in the Constitution apply only to the Chancellor of Justice if the legislator shows inaction, or does it also apply to the legislator? Or is it completely devalued in normal practice and no longer has a legal meaning for the legislator?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U37	I hope that the norm has not lost its meaning. I hope that, in most cases, it will be possible to respect this 20-day rule and, during that period, to decide whether or not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. I personally do not support the deletion of this deadline from the Constitution, because there is no reasonable alternative to it. I think that the established constitutional practice so far is completely reasonable and good.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U38	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U39	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! It's a shame your appeal is somehow suspicious and so dry. Well, I guess the job's pushing it. I will try to ask in this style that, if there are different values in terms of budgets, public health, business freedom, whether the position of these weights depends on how convincing the arguments against you in this context are. For example, the health argument has been alarmed by the fact that the excise duty rate on vodka remained the same, so we have substitute goods in it. In addition, border trade has increased, which increases the risk of alcohol storage and the budgetary risk in the same way. Border trade is a major problem for the budgetary argument. Does this not make the weight of these values significantly less than the weight of these values?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U40	Yes, of course, the office of Chancellor of Justice sets its limits on the form of expression that I try to adhere to. I believe that the right to a brighter and more juicy expression is for those who have the mandate of the people they deserve. The considerations you mentioned are undoubtedly important in this debate. On one side, the freedom to conduct a business is very strong and unpredictable and on the other there are really public health and fiscal objectives. Both are acceptable and important according to the Constitution, especially public health. This four-page analysis, which I recall four days before the adoption of the Act, was submitted to the Government and the Riigikogu, does not really explain exactly what the effects of excise duties in force so far are in the areas listed in § 8512 of the Long Name Act. If it comes to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will probably also look at these effects if it is considering whether such a strong offense was justified by changes in our business environment or the state of health of our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U41	Madam Chancellor! As lawyers, we understand that it is not only the act that matters, but also the motive why something is done. Jürgen touched the moment of health protection here, and it will come up sooner or later. Should we legally assess the extent to which its real motives and actual effects coincide when we assess this law? In other words, the government coalition has had little interest in public health and, as I understand it, in the near future it will not be coming. However, the budget of the government coalition, which is less than 200 million, is of interest. Would our view of this bill be different if they said, "Men and women, we don't have any money. Let's raise the price of vodka, at least get this balance and do something else! '? But it's a lie about health. Do we have to put up with the formula slide and the wrong outcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U42	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U43	Once again, honourable questioner, I am trying to avoid making political assessments. That is your right and perhaps your duty. In my opinion, it is certainly right that excise duties on this type of goods should take into account the fact that public health and fiscal objectives cannot be placed in the same order. The point is that if less alcohol is bought from Estonia, then there will probably be fewer excises. So it looks like there should be one or the other up here. There has been a statement that there may be fewer purchases in case of higher excise duties on alcohol. I would point out again that this may not mean that there is less to drink. It is also thought that if alcohol is bought less, it will slightly improve public health and, as a result, some money will be added to the budget. Well, here, the criterion of truth is what actually comes out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Those people who are listening to this legal debate here today may be asked about the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has proposed, it will be discussed and voted at the end. What happens if your proposal to bring this law into line with the Constitution is not supported? Can you just explain what happens then?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U46	If the honourable Riigikogu decides not to accept the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice this time, I will return to the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice at a peaceful step, sign the application to the Supreme Court and hope that the Supreme Court will create the necessary legal clarity in good time before 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U47	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U48	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! We also discussed these issues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and found the arguments you put forward to be very serious and well thought out. We understand that it was not normal to process a draft such as the one that took place here in December for the rule of law. The arguments put forward by the drafters have also often not suffered criticism. In fact, it is surprising that the coalition, including the same Minister for Finance who prepared these previous drafts, is so indifferent or even arrogant about the constitutional provisions and the analysis you presented. Such constitutional nihilism should not be present in this Chamber and in the House of the Riigikogu at all. On page 12 of your analysis, there is a sentence: 'For all the above reasons, I consider that the argument of public health does not justify an increase in excise duty rates in 2017 and 2018. ' It seems to me that most members of the Riigikogu, at least from the coalition, have not read this analysis. Can you explain the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U49	Here is the reference to the analysis, which has also been presented to you, as I concluded from the committee debate. This analysis is very limited and does not suggest that the increases foreseen in the Green Paper on alcohol policy have resulted in less alcohol being bought and drank. This was not shown, and that is why this statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U50	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! In your proposal, you were based on the legitimate expectations of economic operators in the Riigikogu. The statement of the coalition's justification for the sharp rise in excise duty is to protect the interests of public health. My question is, did you analyze this law on this side? Is the sharp increase in excise duty in the interest of public health really justified and ensures the desired result?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U52	In establishing this rapid increase in excise duty, two objectives were mentioned: income to the state budget and improvement of public health. Improving public health should be achieved because Estonia is likely to buy somewhat less alcohol after that, so there is less drinking. Whether this is the case, my abilities or the resources of our administration do not allow us to say in advance, would this be the case? We looked at this part of the cluster law only through the window that I was trying to explain in the report. Did the companies have a legitimate expectation? Yes, specific excise duties were foreseen for several years. Was this a term promise which, according to the practice of the Supreme Court, is more difficult to change? As far as we're concerned, yes, it was. Were there exceptional circumstances, such as the very severe economic crisis, which required breaking promises to ensure access to education and medical care and to ensure national defence and law enforcement? This is permitted under the Constitution, for example, when it comes to a very serious economic crisis, an epidemic or an emergency situation. This was not the situation in our opinion. And this analysis, which appears to have been carried out in order to comply with § 8512 of the same Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, also did not claim that the excise duty rates so far did not meet the objectives set for them. So we were just analyzing it. But the question is certainly justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U53	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U54	When this proposal of yours was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I raised the question of how we have become able to have such a practice that tax rates ladders are recorded in the law. And then somebody, maybe it was you, maybe another person, said that perhaps the professional interest of the Ministry of Finance officials in communicating more smoothly with their partners in Brussels is behind it. It seems to me that this is more politically related to two other things. One has been a year-long attempt to destroy a one-year state budget in Estonia and replace it with a long-term one. Another factor is turning the Riigikogu into a rubber stamp. Do you remember the answer who didn't say it? Why don't you tell us again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U55	Yes, I remember that answer, and I also remember how those rates were established again for four years in June 2015. Yeah, that was pressure from government officials. In particular, they argued that it was required by the European Union in order to assess the budgetary balance. We have made it clear: the European Union is not calling for it. Could this have something to do with the desire to switch to a four-year budget and thereby weaken the autonomy of the Riigikogu in budgetary matters? Maybe. But it's to find out the respectable public representatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U56	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U57	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! The issue of the tax ladder was under serious discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I repeat what I asked you in the committee. This concerns the current practice of the Chancellor of Justice as an institution. The tax ladder, the so-called fixed-term determination of tax increases in the Act, is nothing new; it has been implemented in Estonian legal practice several times before. In 2009, for example, the rates established in the Income Tax Act were amended in the same way, possibly from 2012 onwards. Please tell me why, as the institution, the Chancellor of Justice has not so far challenged any of these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U58	It was very good that the debate took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it was also somewhat touched on in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As I promised you in the committees, we supplemented the application to the Supreme Court, which will be sent out if this proposal does not find support here today. But there are two answers to that question. Firstly, the issue of mining rights fees was contested. This was a very similar problem and the arguments of the Supreme Court apply here. Secondly, the earlier changes affected the freedom to conduct a business, in conjunction with the principle of legal certainty, much less intensively and no complaints were made. I think it would be reasonable to end this legislative practice, i.e. fixing tax rates in advance for several years. Forecasts given in advance for several years could remain outside the law in order not to devalue the value and validity of the laws adopted by the Riigikogu and believe in them. The country's budgetary strategy is the right place to do it. If the objective is specific, for example, so that alcohol does not become too accessible to people as income increases because of its price, then it is possible to link the excise duty rate to the appropriate coefficient. This is not a fixed-term promise, it is easy to change and companies must take into account that the state has such a permanent objective and that this change can always be made either with regard to public health interests or fiscal interests or, although it does not seem logically possible, both interests. So thank you, that was a very good question, and I hope the answer will satisfy you. The application of the Supreme Court included this subject in addition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U59	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U60	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! My question concerns the legal expectation of the Riigikogu's work. In your analysis, did you also come to the conclusion that the method of the bill, as such, was raised using the cluster bill, is not the right way to achieve the objective, but rather to force the Riigikogu and extortion of responsibility? We have been given the opportunity to analyse one or the other measure in substance. Do you have a position on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U61	Yes, the Constitution allows the Chancellor of Justice to share his views with the Riigikogu on this type of issues as well. I think that the combination of amendments to laws with different objectives and different scopes of application into a single package, the appointment as a single draft to deal with a single commission, with all the rules and restrictions laid down in the acts regulating the work of the Riigikogu, is, to a certain extent, restricting the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to participate in the proceedings. However, this seriously limits the right of the President of the Republic not to declare an anti-constitutional law. The point is that the President can only reject the law as a whole. This means that there will also be no entry into force of standards that are perhaps essential to the development of the country and compatible with the Constitution. It is often not just statesmanly that the President rejects the whole package. So in addition to the rights of members of the Riigikogu, the possibility for the President to do the work prescribed by his constitution is also restricted. There is an emergency exit, which Mrs Kaljulaid also used, asking the Chancellor of Justice to analyse the standards that deserve more detailed analysis. That's what we did. But yes, I think it's not very good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U62	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for this explanation. I share your view that legal clarity and the stability of the business environment are certainly important. But I also asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs whether we should still take into account the healthy business environment, the healthy tax environment and the relationship between the price of alcohol and the price of basic foodstuffs, even milk. What do you think of such a proposal in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U63	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U64	I believe that this is a political and certainly worth considering proposal of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U65	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U66	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Let me ask you a little bit more. There was talk of a so-called tax ladder, and in this connection I will look at how long a government coalition can perpetuate its policy. In my opinion, it is not only by means of a tax ladder that this is a question of perpetuating its policy. This can also be done by introducing various grants and fees. For example, we know that the change concerning parental pension was postponed and it was stipulated that it would enter into force only two or three years later. Children's benefits have been accepted in this way, renewable energy charges have been fixed in advance over the years, and at one point they will end, etc. Should all these cases be treated in the same way as tax policy, or does the Chancellor of Justice consider that there is a large difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U67	Thank you, very important and correct question. Yeah, they have to be treated the same way, and that's what this is about. If, in one area, fixed-term promises do not actually create legal certainty and are as easily broken as untimely promises, it will inevitably affect other areas as well. I do not want to assess here whether the support measures intended to encourage renewable energy production were sufficient or excessive. After all, it is there that it is not possible to reduce these subsidies until the present time. In fact, I believe that such a scheme must be possible, because otherwise, in many areas it is not possible to attract companies to invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U68	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U69	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! This debate has been here for some time today and, unfortunately, in the course of this whole debate, only three issues have been raised by the three parties to the government union. However, I think that this issue is very serious. The Chancellor of Justice has found that one law adopted by Parliament is incompatible with the Constitution, contrary to the Constitution. In my opinion, the lukewarmness of those who pushed this law through this hall is beautifully amazing. My question is whether, during the preparatory work prior to your proposal, you have heard some arguments from the government union so convincing that it has led you to question your position or ask questions. Has there been any compelling counter-argument on the side of the government troika?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U70	Yes, the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the questions and opinions put by both the current opposition and the members of the coalition certainly affected this final text, which will go to the Supreme Court if this proposal is not supported today. My view is that trust in time-bound promises must be protected and clarity must be obtained on this issue before 1 July. And whatever the Supreme Court decides, it is in any case a victory ♪ it is very necessary for the future and also for the present. However, no argument or question has altered this basic position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U71	Thank you, Chancellor Ülle Madise! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Ken-Marti Vaher, chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U72	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice on 6 March 2017. The Chancellor of Justice and his advisers were present. The Chancellor of Justice first introduced the heart of his proposal. He began his introduction by pointing out that the one hundred percent connection and parallel to the case of mining law fees, in which the Supreme Court has adopted a position, cannot be drawn. He then gave an overview of the main points of his position, which have also been distributed to you. Therefore, I will immediately go to the questions and answers. Some thematic blocks were examined, the first of which was the time commitment made in 2015. The Government of the Republic was drawn to the fact that the introduction of excise duties for four years creates legitimate expectations. The Chancellor of Justice explained that at the time no company approached the Chancellor of Justice; the Minister of Finance negotiated with companies. However, the Chancellor of Justice decided to draw the Government of the Republic's attention to this problem. Therefore, all parties were probably aware that such a promise should not be broken. There was a question concerning the introduction of tax ladders as a conventional financial planning instrument, which has been used in the past for various taxes. The question of why this had not been contested in the past was answered by the Chancellor of Justice's advisor, referring to an analogy with the fees of mining law, in which case the previous Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court, where the miscarriage of the Constitution was established. This was an unclear norm and the Supreme Court did not give decisive weight to the principle of democracy in the decision on the fees of mining law. On the question to be clarified, concerning in particular the rates of excise duty and also the rates of income tax, the Chancellor of Justice's advisor replied that there had not been such a large increase in the rate of excise duty in the past. That is why this appeal has been brought. One question concerned the comparison with Germany. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out, in particular, that Germany had given up its term commitments. As Estonia's legal space is similar to that of Germany, it was asked whether it was also possible in Estonia that the legislator would no longer make fixed-term promises. The Chancellor of Justice replied that he very much hopes that Estonia will not move towards abolishing term promises, because a term promise is a very important legal and political instrument to achieve the desired objectives. However, fixed-term promises should not be made with easy hand and in cases where they do not need to be made. The Chancellor of Justice has tried to explain this repeatedly in connection with the planning of the state budget for four years. There is no reason to write tax rates into the laws for years and to add a clause that these rates do not create legitimate expectations. Perhaps it would make sense to maintain the possibility of making fixed-term promises while, at the same time, abandoning the 'tax ladders'. The next question concerned the hypothetical possibility that, if a future government coalition takes a decision on tax ladder increases, for example, for the next ten years or even longer, the Chancellor of Justice will understand it in such a way that legitimate expectations are created and cannot be changed. In some cases, however, would it be possible to amend this decision? The Chancellor of Justice replied that he very much hoped that no promises would be made in this area with such a period of validity. For example, what if we now set the age of retirement by 2060? I guess everyone knows that this whole scheme will be converted by then. The question therefore arises as to whether such a time-limit commitment should be challenged or not. According to the Chancellor of Justice, the whole issue of delivering fixed-term promises is not yet sufficiently detailed in Estonian legal theory. In the theory of law, it has been found that in the case of promises made for a very long period of time, there is no reason for a reasonable person to assume that these promises will be valid when the long term comes. The question of border trade sounded like this: did the Chancellor of Justice analyse border trade more generally? The Chancellor of Justice replied that an analysis was carried out on which operators might be affected by the rise in excise duty. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice does not have the means to carry out a comprehensive economic analysis and this is not a direct task for the Chancellor of Justice. However, in the longer term, it would be better if the economic analysis were stronger. There was a question about the change of government after four years: Can such changes be made only four years later? The Chancellor of Justice replied that he felt it would be ideal if such time-bound promises were not made in order to allow possible subsequent government coalitions and Riigikogu formations to make a different policy. The next question was as follows: what would the Chancellor of Justice think the solution would be if the tax ladders were left in Estonian law, but long-term promises on the introduction of taxes should not be made? The Chancellor of Justice replied that he meant, however, that the tax ladders should be abandoned at the level of the law. They can be used in development plans or in the country's budget strategy, but not in law. The tax rate is not something that should be guaranteed in advance for years. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that in his view, the law could, in future, set coefficients which could be amended and for which there would be no problem of unconstitutionality, rather than a tax ladder. The last questions concerned budgetary planning and, above all, that we have a national budget strategy for four years. It is clear that strategies extend beyond the mandate of the specific Riigikogu. Would it perhaps be wise to make budgetary strategies for the state only until the end of the mandate of the existing Riigikogu? The Chancellor of Justice replied that he was a proponent of long-term planning, and the appropriate instruments for this depend on the field. It is possible to use development plans and budgetary strategies that are specific to the development plan. This could be a four-year perspective or an eight-year perspective. But it is fair to say to society that this is a prognosis and that the next Riigikogu and the government coalition can make existing policies more favourable and less favourable to those involved. The Chancellor of Justice therefore does not support a four-year state budget which would have been adopted by law. This would be unconstitutional and the Chancellor of Justice would not support the amendment of the Constitution in this respect. It was also asked when the time tables for changing taxes written into law had actually started. The Chancellor of Justice recalled that, in his view, it is true that these fixed-term tax ladders were written into the law on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. It was argued that this way it would be easier to convince Eurostat that the budget would remain balanced over four years. According to the Chancellor of Justice, this statement is unfounded in the light of the Estonian Constitution and the rule of law. European Union law does not provide for such an obligation. That was the end of the questioning and discussion. I shall also briefly summarise the opinions expressed. Jüri Adams considered that this increase in excise duty was not unconstitutional, but at the same time supported the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to reverse the increase in excise duty. Helmut Hallemaa pointed out that, in his view, the increase in alcohol duty should also take account of the increase in the price of all other goods, such as milk, and the price of different goods at all. Arto Aas said that this Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws was adopted by the Riigikogu on 15 June 2015. The government then included the Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. The Minister for Finance, under whose direction legitimate expectations were created for entrepreneurs, was at that time the same as today. He supports the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, as there is no critical reason at present to break legitimate expectations so strongly. I said the following about this proposal. In my opinion, this regulation is not a violation of legitimate expectations. Firstly, this is a justified increase in excise duty, which has been dealt with in a number of analyses, which the Chancellor of Justice does not directly dispute. Secondly, this amendment has given a sufficient period of notice, for more than half a year. In order to ensure that the increase in excise duty is not too steep, it was decided to increase the rate in two steps. The aim of this so-called flat rise is, among other things, to smooth out the effects of the increase in excise duty. In addition, the debate on the harmonisation of excise duties in Estonian society has been going on for years; it does not come as a surprise to anyone. Thirdly, the introduction and amendment of tax ladders is a legal practice which has so far responded to the Constitution. This was done, for example, when the Law amending the Income Tax Act and the related Law was adopted in November 2009. This was done in November 2012, when the Act amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act was adopted, as well as in July 2014, when amendments to the same Act were approved, and in June 2015, when the Act was amended again. Thus, this practice has been permanent, it has been used for several years. In short, a few more arguments. The aim of this regulation is to reduce the differences in excise rates between strong and lean alcohol in order to limit alcohol consumption in this way as well. Reducing the difference in excise duty rates will ensure that alcohol is taxed more equally and, from the point of view of human health and social harm, it is not justified to give preference to other types of alcoholic beverages. In the event of a continuation of previous tax rates, as from 1 January 2018, when the tax-free minimum rises to EUR 500, alcohol would become cheaper than net wages and thus increase the availability of such beverages. If this increase in excise duty were to be avoided, less alcohol would increase people's purchasing power by about 10%, which would certainly be a detrimental trend for society. The increase in excise duty is necessary in order to maintain the current situation. Alcohol consumption, however, decreases when the increase in excise duty is faster than the increase in wages. I also note that excise duty is an indirect tax where the tax burden is borne by the final consumer who uses excise goods outside his business. Consumption is taxed by increasing the price of the product. The changes to the rates of excise duty laid down on 19 December 2016 are without prejudice to the freedom of operators to act, as operators will be able to increase the price of alcohol to be handled as a result of the increase in the excise duty rate. So this burden is actually borne by end-users. Changes in the rates of excise duty do not create unjustified obstacles to business, do not have retroactive effect and better take into account the requirement of equal treatment of persons and the desire to protect public health. The rates are not excessively burdensome nor are they of an exorbitant or punitive nature. This change has also been foreseeable. Various debates have already been mentioned, which have been held over the years on the harmonisation of excise duties. The Act amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws adopted in June 2015 added § 8512 of an operative nature to the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity with the aim, inter alia, of expressing the possibility that excise duty rates adopted in June 2015 may still change before they enter into force. Further consideration should also be given to the principle of democracy, according to which the ruling majority and the coalition must have the right to pursue their wishes in a democratic manner. However, no majority has the right to embodi their policies. The main issue in the current dispute is whether it is possible to make any decisions, for example, for five or seven years, so that it will no longer be possible to change it in the next government coalitions or in the next parliamentary formations. There should certainly be no such practice in Estonian politics or law. Finally, I refer to the fact that the increase in the tax-free minimum applies to a very large number of people and excessive alcohol consumption represents a serious risk to public health. Thus, additional excise duties on lean alcohol can be considered to have been imposed for weighty reasons; they are justified, moderate and constitutional. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported by 4 members of the Commission in our vote, 6 against the proposal and no abstentions. It was decided to appoint the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur and to propose that this issue be discussed in the large hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U73	Questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, where were you last week when, because of your absence, this proposal could not be processed in good time in this Chamber, so that we could fit into the 20-day deadline? There was a long debate here on Monday, but the President of the Riigikogu said during the approval of the agenda that you would not be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U75	Thank you! I don't know what that question was about right now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, does not take decisions on bringing the topics into the Chamber. This is done by the Riigikogu Board on the basis of proposals. So that's not the decision we've made. I pointed out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared all procedural decisions and took the view that this decision would also be ready for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U76	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U77	You should remember that debate from Monday. Ken-Mart must have been sick. But at this session, the President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor, claimed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that it be discussed only this week. I looked at the minutes of the committee sitting and I went through my memory, but I did not find such a decision of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And we were here for a long time arguing about whose decision it was, who took the right to violate the principle of 20 days laid down in the Constitution by referring to the Commission. It was stuck in the air. Now, why don't you take this opportunity and tell me if the Commission discussed it or if your personal opinion was asked when the Chancellor of Justice's proposal could be discussed? Let's at least settle this procedural issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U78	I am pleased to hear that you once again argued on Monday, I understand that this is a fine action, especially in the view of the opposition. I was really sick, and I'm not well today, but I thought it was important to do my duty. Jürgen always has a lot to say, even on the spot without a microphone. Sure, you can do that. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not decided when to bring this issue to the Chamber. So the Riigikogu is arguing about different deadlines and everything else. Forgive me, gentlemen, for 16 years you have been sitting in power and listening exactly as the opposition has spoken for 16 years in a row, Jürgen has now gone very serious, but now you have only been sitting in the opposition for three months, but you are saying exactly what the previous opposition has said in 16 years. I'm sorry, that's ridiculous, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U79	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I didn't really understand your irony right now. I thought it was inappropriate. But the question that a good colleague asked was very simple. If the President of the sitting had said very clearly that Ken-Marti Vaher was ill, and therefore we cannot bring this issue to the Chamber, as has been the case today, these questions would have been omitted in this Chamber. When it was asked very clearly who proposed to violate the deadline of 20 days laid down in the Constitution, we did not receive an answer to that. It was pointed out that this was the Commission's decision. When we asked a more precise question as to whether this was done by the chairman of the committee on the phone or by anyone else, we also did not receive an answer. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U81	I don't know how to comment on that. But my illness has nothing to do with it, I'm in front of you today despite the illness.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U82	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U83	First, I wish you a quick recovery! But, in short, I realized the promises weren't valid, the deadlines weren't valid. Now comes my question: what is the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U84	There are laws, Igor. The laws are in force. And certainly the Constitution is in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U85	Thank you, Ken-Marti Vaher! No further questions. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U86	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After the debate at the end of the previous speech, I would like to remind you that on 6 March the Head of the Riigikogu announced: we have the agenda, it has been put together last week and we will confirm that. There was a request to hold a debate on this topic in the same week, that is, last week, if it is suitable for the co-rapporteurs. Then the agenda would have been changed on the agenda. It didn't work out, and for this simple reason, the subject went on the agenda of this week. It didn't suit Ken-Mart, as far as I know. So there's no reason to talk about being sick or healthy or anything like that. There is a procedure under which the Bureau sets the agenda, but it may amend it if such a proposal is made. The Committee on Finance discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 6 March. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise gave the Commission an overview of the nature of the problem and also heard the views of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs. I will come back to the previous issue once more. When we had finished dealing with the proposal in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we received a written proposal from the Chancellor of Justice's advisor to present a debate this week. By then, however, the Commission meeting was already over, not just to deal with this issue. So, in the Commission, the Chancellor of Justice admitted that he was not firmly convinced that regulation was contrary to the Constitution. The main objective of the proposal is to achieve legal clarity for the future and to obtain an assessment from the Supreme Court of whether a term promise in this way is acceptable and justified and how it is compatible with the principles of democracy when a coalition in power imposes binding regulation for future power holders. Point two: Can the written work submitted to the Riigikogu during the preparation of the draft be considered as the basis for the analysis of the change of excise rates? How should the fiscal and public health objectives, which are essentially opposite objectives, be properly considered? Point three: if the increase in excise duty is necessary in relation to the increase in the duty-free minimum, why is the excise duty being increased six months earlier? These were the questions raised by the Chancellor of Justice. During the Commission's debate, the following topics were discussed: First of all, the solution of the so-called mining right fees. As regards the decision on these fees, it was discussed whether or not it was a single analogy. The representative of the Ministry said that the difference is in the subject of regulation; the current case concerns the financial competence of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice also admitted that these cases were different. Mr Holsmer raised the issue of gas excise duty, as the same law also provides for an additional increase in this excise duty. What is the difference between the Chancellor of Justice not contesting this? The Chancellor of Justice is still analysing this question, was the answer. This is a slightly different case, the deadlines are different and the ceilings range from the other side of the election. Mr Ammas asked the question of how the tax cluster adopted in 2015 differed from the cluster adopted in 2016. Is it not allowed what is promised to one coalition next? The Chancellor of Justice explained that he gave his assessment at a meeting of the Government, where he clearly expressed the view that this behaviour was not correct. He also sent letters to the Prime Minister of Finance, Justice and Justice in 2015 and explained the same situation as it is today. On that occasion, the undertakings did not address the Chancellor of Justice and the Chancellor of Justice announced to the operators a promise that no further such action would be taken. One member of the Commission noted that in 2015 he passed a similar law as a member of the Riigikogu and then no conflict with the Constitution was found. The letters sent by the Chancellor of Justice to the ministers have not been forwarded to the members of the Riigikogu and therefore the members of the Riigikogu adopted the same amendment this time. A precedent, isn't it? The laws shall be adopted by Parliament. Why did the Chancellor of Justice not inform Parliament? The Chancellor of Justice explained that he did not consider it necessary at the time. Jürgen Ligi was not a question, it was rather a statement of opinion just confirmed that in 2015 the Chancellor of Justice raised this issue at a meeting of the government. He also noted that we need to ask if we have a growing or relaxing alcohol problem in terms of health. If we consider the arguments of public health, then other arguments must also be considered. The excise duty on lean alcohol in Estonia is relatively high compared to other Europe, while we drink a lot of strong alcohol. The amendment supports the purchase of lean alcohol across borders. My question was why the Chancellor of Justice decided to attach his proposal to the 2019 elections. The Chancellor of Justice explained that when the government coalition changes, it must be possible to change decisions, but it is quite unacceptable to have decisions affecting the next election period. I, in the Commission at the time, concluded that all laws that we accept must be limited in time in March 2019. That is why it is more important to answer the question of what a term promise means and to what extent, or to what extent, a person in power may or may not be bound by a term promise. On the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, the Committee on Monetary Affairs took the following decisions: Firstly, it was proposed to vote on whether we are shaping a position or not. The Commission can actually do both. In favour of shaping the position, there were 6 members of the Riigikogu, against 2, with 2 abstentions. In conclusion, we have taken the position to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, which was voted in favour of 6 and against 4 members of the Commission. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U87	Questions for the rapporteur in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How do large-scale purchases of alcohol outside Estonia contribute to improving public health, which this law seeks to achieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U89	I thought the question would go on, because this is clearly a social life specialist issue. If the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee or the Minister of Social Affairs were to stand here, it would be different. I do not consider it necessary to draw up an expert opinion on every issue. I am just against alcohol and I think that all the steps that are being taken against the increase in alcohol consumption are positive. But its social impact and the border economy should be analysed by other people. They say an expert is every person who doesn't live in our neighborhood. If you understand this joke, you will understand why I do not want to comment on an area that is absolutely not my area of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U90	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U91	Mr Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, which is part of the government coalition, is a very important man, at least another man in the field of finance in our country. That is why I am asking you more broadly how you feel about the idea of a four-year state budget. Could Estonia go all over it or choose some sort of interim option?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U92	I think this debate is still ahead of us. My personal opinion is that the perspective, of course, needs to be seen. But it's hard for me to imagine how we're gonna do it. I have a previous experience in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I used to be a member of the opposition, and I was a member of this committee. Every six months we listened to economic forecasts, looked at charts and charts, etc. We looked and disbanded. But once I left these materials on the table for a very long time. And then the next six months had passed, and I started to look at them. It turned out something had happened that, well, I don't know, the bullet didn't hit at all. He flew by a really big distance. It is, of course, nice to plan ahead, but I think it should be strategic planning: certain areas have been chosen, certain areas have been selected that will be deliberately financed and supported. But in such a way that, with some number precision, I can't imagine putting forward plans for four years. And secondly, debates like the one we have here, whether the law binds the hands of the government or not, would become so normal that we would all be mad here. So strategic planning, yes, but not very specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U93	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U94	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pity that this debate today is so centred on the freedom of business. There are many more values, there are many more paragraphs, and their consistency is much more exciting. And it is their harmony that really affects life the most. We should actually talk about the cluster bill more generally. There are more hogs than this one and some of them are bigger, but undoubtedly the fact of the cluster is one of the reasons for today's debate. We could not deal properly with the point on alcohol duty because there were more attractive points and because the restrictions and restrictions in force were imposed on us in the Commission as well. They tried to limit the debate, just as the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu limit it. This tax cluster is, unfortunately, a new recession in Estonian parliamentary practice. Unfortunately, the bunches are being tucked in and there is no difference between this one and this one. But it is this time that the difference is the cause of this problem, not the cluster in general. It's the same with alcohol. There has never been such an increase in alcohol duty. In that sense, it hurts too much. In a very different way, a very different form of excise duty on alcohol is the broader content of today's dispute. In fact, the new low ground is also that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, apparently on behalf of the Commission, today mocked the opposition because we are discussing something at all. At the same time, we've been in power as long as he has. But what the hell, let's talk about 2015? I have memories of it, I was in the government at the time. We had serious doubts about the possibility of such an additional increase in excise duty. We were calmed down by the Minister of Finance, and we calmed ourselves, knowing what he was negotiating with entrepreneurs. At the time, the case was not contested and, if it was only about the alleged restriction of the freedom to conduct a business, this non-controversy was in some way an argument. It is a fact that no one turned to the Chancellor of Justice or the court. It is a very different situation now: it has done enough damage. In addition, the weight of the arguments is very different. If we put the arguments of business freedom, public health and budget on the scales, then we must recognise that the justification of the law has been greatly undermined by this procedure and the sharp increase in excise duty on alcohol. The budgetary argument has been seriously disrupted by border trade, and I can assure you that, at the time of the increase in 2015, we were told that this is the upper limit that will help the budget, no more should be raised. This was confirmed to us by the forecasters at the time. They have just told us that they are not sure that they will not be raised excessively. So consider this: the budgetary argument is weak. And that is what the Chancellor of Justice could say to the Supreme Court. Public health is also a weak argument, as drunkenness did not start in Estonia last December. Firstly, alcohol consumption has steadily decreased. Evgeny Ossinovski was only quick to show her performance before alcohol consumption would decrease even more. But that's it. It is a fact that if we stimulate border trade, we will stimulate stock purchases and, ultimately, consumption in some ways. How strongly you can argue, but it's certainly not healthy. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U96	Obviously, the decision that we only raise excise duty on lean alcohol is not healthy either. It is clear that strong alcohol is a substitute, as well as that it is riskier. Try it! I've been trying for over several years, drinking half a shot of vodka. I thought vodka was something very disgusting and annoying, but I have to be honest, it was so easy to take and so effective. For me, this is an additional argument against this bill: we are directing people to buy vodka. It's cheaper and easier to get drunk with vodka right now. Why are we talking about public health here? I don't understand. Vodka is much more toxic. I had a sad event, so I don't want to laugh, that's why I took that half a shot. There's no hurry! To come up with the argument that it was quick to protect public health is, in fact, a mess. We have developed alcohol tourism, and this erodes the health argument and the budgetary argument. I feel sorry for this debate if I hurt the Chancellor of Justice! The fact that it is, as it has been before with the Chancellors of Justice, some sort of technical internal matter of their legal environment. Right is very important. But I do suggest that you include some meat in the legal arguments. The budgetary and health arguments are, in fact, more specific than only paragraphs. Whether this argument works in the current situation should also be illustrated in this dispute. But I wish the Chancellor of Justice the strength of the Supreme Court! It's clear he has to go there. And I also wish him strength in this general press against his institution, which has recently been. The Minister of Justice is no longer hiding that the Chancellor of Justice is disturbing him, this institute is disturbing him. His brilliant initiatives are a good list of the editor-in-chief column of the Estonian Express. I especially liked what was signed at the end of the article. I guess my contacts with the Minister of Justice have been going on for a long time. But unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is not alone. Vaher and Reinsalu form a battle couple who do not really care about the state of Estonia, do not care about the consequences of their personal careers. The power, Chancellor, is right on your side!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U97	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U98	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! We know that the majority in Parliament has decided to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol. That's why I really hope we care about public health. It should be borne in mind that lean alcohol has been favoured for years at lower rates of excise duty. The purpose of this amendment is to reduce the difference between the rates of excise duty on strong and lean alcohol and, consequently, the availability of lean alcohol. It is very important to stress that the tax changes that will be made this year and next year will result in an increase in people's income and that alcohol will become more accessible to many people. Incomes are growing and more alcohol can be bought with higher incomes than before. It is necessary to ensure that alcohol consumption does not increase in the event of increased purchasing power. With regard to the actual objectives of alcohol policy, the Chancellor of Justice has reached exactly the same position as the government in his proposal. Alcohol is one of the main causes of health damage and it is necessary to restrict the production, sale and consumption of alcohol. In Lithuania, for example, it has recently been decided to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol by 100% on the same road. From this it can be concluded that the screaming public health problem is not only in Estonia but also elsewhere. It is understandable that a faster increase in alcohol duty reconciliation will have a negative impact on the activities of alcohol producers and could reduce their profits. In his proposal, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that, in exceptional circumstances, the State could break the commitments previously made in time. One of the objectives of the increase in excise duty is to reduce alcohol consumption and health and other harm caused by excessive drinking. According to very conservative data, alcohol-related health losses account for 2% of GDP in financial terms. With alcohol-related deaths and years of work lost due to illness, in 2015 it was nearly EUR 443 million. In Estonia, at least 1000 people die every year as a direct result of alcohol consumption. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, however, in 2011, when they did this calculation, it was even 1440 alcohol-induced deaths. Good friends! There are just as many residents in the city of Mustvee, Kolga-Jaani and Alatskivi municipality. Excessive and improper consumption of alcohol causes violence, accidents, loss of health and early deaths, which reduces learning and working capacity. In addition to harming health, excessive alcohol consumption also causes economic and social problems. In addition, hundreds of people who have not drunk themselves die every year or are injured as a result of a traffic accident caused by drunk drivers. This violates the constitutional right of a very large number of people to protect life and health. So, according to the Social Democrats, these are sufficiently exceptional circumstances which give rise to an increase in the price of alcohol due to increased incomes. It should also be pointed out that increasing the price of alcohol reduces the harm caused by alcohol in society. It's proven. In this case, the interests of public health outweigh the obstacles to the commercial interests of alcohol. In our opinion, raising excise rates at a faster pace is a necessary step in the interests of public health, and the possible unconstitutional nature of excise increases can only consist in the way in which changes are made, not in their content. The Chancellor of Justice has also stated in his proposal that the legislator should give priority to the way in which the next government coalition can change policy choices. According to the principle of democracy, elected representatives of the people have the right to change their decisions to date. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U99	No one can rightly assume that his standards will last forever. In order to change the legal situation, it is necessary to provide for the necessary time to adapt to the changes, i.e. to restructure the activities. If they are notified sufficiently in the event of an amendment to this law more than half a year earlier, this cannot be contrary to the Constitution. It would seem incomprehensible if the new composition of the Riigikogu or the government coalition did not have the right to change excise duties or other taxes, such as those fixed for five or ten years. It follows from the principle of democracy that the new majority of the Riigikogu has the right to change previous political priorities. In conclusion, we consider that the main aim of the dispute raised is to achieve legal clarity about the promises made within a time limit and the changes made to them. In particular, it is important to answer the question of whether the establishment of time-limited promises is necessary in a democratic society and in the rule of law. We hope that there will be legal clarity and legal peace on this issue soon. The Social Democratic Party Group does not support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to amend the draft law which raised the rates of excise duty on lean alcohol and considers that the law adopted by Parliament last December is compatible with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U100	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U101	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U102	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In cooperation with Postimees, the Chamber of the Service Economy recognised the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws, or the so-called Tax Cluster Act, as the worst law of last year. However, this brightest example of vicious legislation, despite the criticisms of experts, the draft law was pushed through in the Riigikogu at the end of last year. This was done word-by-word, in violation of the promises made by earlier laws and without complying with the procedural rules in force in law-making. It was only a matter of time before the Chancellor of Justice intervened. Indeed, there may be very exceptional situations where a country has to consider withdrawing from fixed-term promises, for example in the event of a severe economic crisis. There was no such situation at the time of the further increase in alcohol duty. The rule of law must respect the promises already made and amendments to the law must not be adopted in violation of the Constitution. Pursuant to § 142 of the Constitution, the legislator must bring the act contrary to the Constitution into conformity with the Constitution within 20 days. To the coalition, the deadline laid down by law did not mean anything. The Chancellor of Justice presented his proposal to the Riigikogu on 17 February, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the matter for the first time on 6 March. Indeed, in 20 days, it is not really possible to change the law if you want to do so in compliance with all the procedural rules and deadlines. And yet the coalition was able to push through this tax change cluster law in 15 days! Of course, it was born in violation of deadlines, procedural rules and the Riigikogu's domestic and operating rules. We recall that the bill for large-scale tax changes was on the agenda in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the end of last year on 5 December and that there was already a final vote on 19 December. So it is to be expected that, as the next step, the Chancellor of Justice will now propose to the Supreme Court to cancel further increases in excise duty. The Supreme Court has already made a similar decision in the so-called mining fee case. In other cases, the Supreme Court has stressed in its current practice that legitimate expectations may arise in the case of fixed-term legal provisions. And in the same law of 15 June 2015, which was amended by the cluster law, excise duty rates were fixed for a fixed period. The Ministry of Finance sent a statement of opposition to the positions of the Chancellor of Justice of the Monetary Commission. The letter from the Ministry of Finance was legally extremely weak, and the legal arguments were unfounded. The Ministry stressed that constitutional values, which were violated by business freedom and legitimate expectations, would have a different effect on businesses than so-called mining fees. In the mining fee case, the aim was to protect the environment; the current case has public health. Public health is crucial, but is it really the only and main objective of the coalition, there is reason to doubt it. Rather, it has the impression that the aim of the coalition is to find additional money in the budget in order to implement initiatives beyond the coalition's control. The Ministry also stressed that the rates of environmental charges were presented for years in the form of a table in the Annex to the Government of the Republic's Regulation, but changes to the rates of excise duty have been laid down by the legislator in the text of the Act. Does the fact that the rates are in the table of the government regulation or in the text of the law really have a legal weight? In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a representative of the Ministry could not answer that question either. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U103	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U104	The table of sources of cover for the so-called coalition agreement, put together in a hurry by the coalition at the end of last year, has already broken down. The commitments made by the Coalition and the commitments made to the State have proved to be more costly than initially expected, while the sources of cover have disappeared one after the other. With additional excise rates, the coalition expects to receive additional revenue of EUR 25 million this year and EUR 58 million next year. This is one very important reason why the Government's Union does not want to recognise a violation of the law. Estonia is not on a single island. Excise policy must take into account the excise policy of other countries, in particular neighbouring countries. The impact of excise increases has decreased the sales of lean alcohol on the Estonian domestic market, but the decrease in sales figures does not mean a one-sided decrease in consumption, as additional quantities are now imported from Latvia. From a public health point of view, this is rather a worse option, because Latvia is bringing larger quantities at once. Secondly, the coalition's alcohol policy favours the consumption of strong alcohol. In this regard, it is important to ask how such a policy of alcohol can be in the interest of public health if, on the one hand, it promotes the consumption of strong alcohol and, on the other hand, it directs the tax money that could be used in health care to Latvia. Finally, I would also like to congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for his actions and continuity. I wish the Chancellor of Justice every success in the forthcoming court proceedings at the Supreme Court! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U105	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U106	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start from the beginning, perhaps from what we've been discussing today. Let us look at the title of the item: we are discussing the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Alignment with the Constitution sounds grand, but we can actually simplify the title a lot: we will vote for or against continuing the current alcohol policy. Continuing the current alcohol policy means further significantly lower taxation of lean alcohol, although ethanol molecules are in beer, wine and vodka. Alcohol excise currently accounts for about 17% of the price of beer, about 20% of the price of cider, about 9.7% of the price of wine, about 14.9% of the price of intermediate products, but 50% of the price of vodka. Is that fair? Our health care system struggles every day to treat and maintain people's health more effectively, groaning more and more year after year. On the other hand, for years now, we have been ignoring alcohol, which is one of the most important causes of health problems. The statistics are ominous. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund alone paid 3.5 million euros in direct treatment for alcohol-related diseases in 2015, while the treatment of alcohol-related diseases is estimated at 50.3 million euros. These figures speak for themselves. Against this background, it is amazing to hear the sentences that the new coalition should wait until 2019 to tax lean and strong alcohol in the same way. It's irrational! Over the last few months, I have heard a lot about this law being compared with the rise in environmental charges made years ago. But there is a big and substantial difference between the situation at the time and that of the current situation: at that time, the agreed policy was changed by the same party that agreed on it. This is indeed a violation of legitimate expectations. The Constitution of Estonia states that the Government of the Republic will implement the internal and external policies of the state. Unexpectedly, however, a situation has arisen where the new government is unable to meet the expectations of the people. In this case, the Supreme Court must make a clear assessment of the length of time that tax rates can be agreed and the possibilities of changing them when the government changes. I do not consider it reasonable for one government to set the country's tax policy in stone for ten years. Today's debate clearly shows how the previous government can carry out its policies even in opposition. In this way, the interests of the Estonian society are not protected, but of the narrow circle of alcohol producers. Public health is a matter worth fighting for, and if excise duty is a medicine that helps us reduce alcohol-induced diseases and deaths, then we are ready to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U107	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U108	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the young Riigikogu, I find it interesting that the table of speeches shows who is the last speaker today. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare reassure you! The last word is always said by the voters, so don't sweat too much. But this debate has become very interesting, and I listened very carefully to what the Chancellor of Justice said. Let us hear how the rapid and reactive cluster bill and the associated increases in excise duty are justified! In fact, there is reason to say that lightning did not strike into public health. Didn't kick in two months ago, didn't kick in four months ago. This argument, as a justification, is, in my view, absolutely no good. In fact, we have statistics showing that average consumption is in a declining trend. Thus, a steady increase in alcohol duty is bearing fruit. If ladies and gentlemen had said that they would do all this in order to increase the revenue of the budget and fulfil their electoral promises, I would have been calmer and would not have demonstrated so much passion on this platform. It would have been honest and sincere. But what I'm saying now hasn't been qualified at all. If we look at lean and strong alcohol consumption in different countries, as reflected in international statistics, we see a very clear tendency that in those countries where strong alcohol consumption is respected, the impact of alcohol on public health is clearly more negative. That should be taken into account. So we get back to the same thing that when we talk about alcohol, we should also talk about drinking as a part of culture. You have to be able to handle alcohol in a cultural way. In fact, this also means that it should not be argued that the cultural consumption of lean alcohol instead of strong alcohol does not play any role in improving public health. This view is supported by international statistics. As far as further steps are concerned, for me, there is a very eloquent fact that the honourable Chancellor of Justice mentioned in the remote. This relates to the fact that, with this type of cluster bill, we are putting in a very difficult position, perhaps even a trap for our honourable President, not to mention the loss of opportunity for Members to participate in open debates and debates on these drafts. This is a tendency that certainly must not be allowed to get worse in this house. Otherwise, the whole debate gets meaningless and slips into motion. I have heard very much the claim that every coalition that comes to power will quickly implement its policies by whatever means. I'm not quite sure that this can be justified, especially if we don't even wait half a year. How can we talk about legal certainty and legal clarity when the half-year deadline is very long for us? I dare to put forward a hypothesis that if at some point we have agreed very clear principles in the Estonian country, which will be followed by the development of the state's economy and the design of the state's budget, we could ultimately decide that some values may have been set in stone for more than half a year. They may have been cut into stone for two years, three years, maybe more. The Chancellor of Justice has today proposed a subject that can reach the Supreme Court. In the course of this debate, we need to discuss what principles and values could be that no coalition could change quickly and with an easy hand. This must not be allowed, as it could in any case undermine the long-term livelihood of the country. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U110	As a result, I am not a priori sure that no principle, value assessment or provision could be incorporated into the law for a longer period. But we certainly have a debate ahead of us about the four-year cycle of governance, i.e. getting a new mandate from the people. If you take a step forward from here, there was a clear sentence from the Kalvi Hard presentation: that our aim is to justify the consumption of strong alcohol and to favour these producers. This, in my opinion, is not very logical and very reasonable. If we are of the opinion that alcohol tourism needs to be encouraged in Estonia and to be filled in at home more times than we will be able to take advantage of in the near future, then the continuation of such a policy will certainly favour it and this is not good. Not to mention that we support Latvians' dream of the Estonian economy, passing the Estonian state and achieving a better economic situation. It is extremely sad that the coalition is not talking about just as passionately preventive activities and the channelling of money there. Promoting a culture of alcohol consumption would lead to reasonable, moderate and low consumption, but the amount allocated to this work has not increased in the required order of magnitude. I therefore very much hope that the Supreme Court will give us the opportunity to debate here in Parliament what our values could be, which should not be changed in pursuit of short-term political goals. Such draft laws undermine the possibilities of both the President and Parliament to direct and participate in the debate. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, our understanding is clear: we support the Chancellor of Justice's efforts to bring this law into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U111	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U112	Honourable President! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Chancellor of Justice said very nicely today about us from this remote control: those who have the mandate of the people they deserve. That is a beautiful expression, but unfortunately the mandate of the people does not in itself give us the clarity of thought and the accuracy of the wording that the Chancellor of Justice stood out with today and which I think we all have to learn from him. It was outstandingly good. I would like to add another to the compliments of the Chancellor of Justice from this remote. Not only me, but our entire group admires the courage of the Chancellor of Justice and the courage to go to the Supreme Court with this problem, because today the coalition has not heard the coalition's willingness to draw conclusions and make improvements. Normally, Chancellors of Justice have turned to the Supreme Court whenever they are absolutely or at least 90% convinced that they are correct. When speaking in the Finance Committee, the Chancellor of Justice himself admitted that he currently does not know which decision the Supreme Court could make, and his application is more sympathetic. He dares be a loser, too, if that's what's supposed to happen. But in any case, the Estonian state will win this debate, this debate. Not only will the current government and the current composition of the Riigikogu win, but the future Riigikogu formations and future governments will also win this debate. Especially because both in the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this Chamber today, there was rightly a statement that we do not have anywhere to learn or write down on this matter. There are very, very different practices in different countries on this issue. Speaking at the end of the session in the Riigikogu debate is an advantage that you can either support or opt for the opinion of your predecessors. I very much want to support the position of my colleague, Urmas Kruus. My position is completely in line with that. The argument that it is a desire to protect public health is Phariseeic. Yes, that is, of course, correct in nature, no one is arguing against it, but both the previous coalition and the current coalition have considered the need, above all, to find cover for their electoral promises in the state budget when introducing excise duties. This has been a key issue. Why be ashamed of it? I mean, you could be honest with me. I remember well how, before the establishment of the 2015 coalition, the representative of the Ministry of Finance presented in the negotiations the possibilities of finding additional resources for the state budget. He then made it clear that the desired rate of increase in excise duty is 5% per year, alright, until 10% is still an option. If this border is crossed, there will be border trade, all the consequences that we are already facing. He warned politicians back then. As a colleague here said: the government coalition at that time calmed itself down and did not take this good advice. It was a pleasure to hear both at the meeting of the Commission and today in this Chamber that the Chancellor of Justice actually reacted in the spring of 2015 and signaled that such behaviour was neither justified nor correct. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U113	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U114	As hindsight, of course, you can blame the Chancellor of Justice for perhaps having to act more forcefully at the time. But I guess it's like a parent or a teacher is acting with a child who's in trouble, and you're still forgiving and saying that it's the last time! However, politicians are not good children who are ashamed and learning. They're more like teenagers who touch borders than they can go far. This was also the case this time, and the next coalition was in a sense even more skinny. It has been said several times today from this remote control that there is a huge difference between a cluster and a cluster, that there are so-called shallow clusters and high clusters, that there are such clusters and that there is a return type. The Free Party doesn't want to accept that kind of talk. The cluster law was bad in June 2015 and was very bad in December 2016. The speaker here will be forgiven for this comparison, but this cluster comparison story reminded me of a student-songed Muradel song about the Soviet atom: the atomic bomb in the United States was bad, but the Soviet atomic bomb was good. It's not like that! Let us hope that we will never have to deal with cluster laws in this Chamber again. Finally, the Free Party Group supports the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. We join Mr Jürgen Ligi's comments on the attacks that have recently hit the Chancellor of Justice. We wish to resist the attacks and defend the interests of the Estonian state with the same dignity and courage as he has done in this draft! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-16_U115	Does the Chancellor of Justice wish to participate in the negotiations? No, I don't. I shall close the negotiations and proceed to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I promise one more explanation. Since we rarely have this kind of vote and some of the MPs may have the first time at all to vote on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, I will explain that I am asking you the question 'Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? 'and then you choose the color that suits you. Are we clear? Dear Riigikogu, who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice? Please take a stand and vote. The Chancellor of Justice is in favour of 34 and against 49 parliamentarians. The Riigikogu did not support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Bye! Closure of the sitting at 12.12.
