ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 13th working week of the V plenary session on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Andres Herkel's chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U2	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We have a question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about administrative reform manipulations to give power parties a better position. On behalf of the MPs of the Free Party, we have submitted quite a number of enquiries to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of State Administration, some also to the Chancellor of Justice. Their answers have almost always made us very sad. In this question, we have generalised the diagrams that are. It seems that it is quite no matter whether, for example, the criterion of the size of the territory is met with no direct need, even though the municipality also has a population of 5 000 inhabitants. All other criteria are met, but 5,000 inhabitants are not, but forced additions are still required from those who have everything in order to be added to them. And in general, by analyzing these things, we get the impression that power parties often do so simply to achieve the self-government with the borders that are most suitable for local elections. All of this is very one-planned, I would say, even amoral. Among other things, we ask how and by whom it was agreed that no changes would be made to the law on administrative reform, even if it were shown that solutions and results were unreasonable. How are the different cases to be dealt with and how are the exceptions dealt with? In total, seven members of the Free Party have six questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U3	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U4	Good afternoon, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! My question is addressed to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, and the title of the question is this: 'Estonia's challenges in terms of ageing, youth, smallness and innovation'. In the public, the saying 'old Estonia' is more and more common. This somewhat negative group of words actually hides the objective fact that people's life expectancy in Estonia is increasing and that the proportion of people of mature age in society is increasing. The concern surrounding this is that whether the Estonian people will survive and how the younger generation will manage to cover pension, health and social expenditure is one side of the issue. A smart and foresighted society can cope. The leading Estonian demographers have pointed out on several occasions that the whole issue can also be viewed from the bright side and that an ageing nation can also be a good and a blessing to the state. Longer life expectancy could also mean an increase in work capacity if people can acquire new skills at an old age and apply these skills in new areas at an increasing level of education. The realisation of this potential depends on society's ability to see added value in it and on how economic development is directed accordingly. In this regard, we have a number of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U5	Thank you. Next, please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U6	Good manager! Colleagues! I am pleased to hand over the draft Public Procurement Act on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U7	Thank you. Next, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U8	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the Reform Party Group have a question for the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palole. On 20 April, the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology announced through a press release that the state will direct an additional 160 million euros to the development of Estonian entrepreneurship. A closer reading revealed that 60 million out of 160 million go to the rental housing programme and 40 million to rebuild Tallinn City Hall. As we know, one of the country's main indicators of innovation expenditure is R &amp; D expenditure as a share of GDP. Renovation and construction of buildings are not included. That is why we have three questions. First of all, does the Minister estimate that building rental houses and renovating the City Hall will improve Estonia's position in the World Economic Forum innovation index rankings, reflecting the innovation performance of the countries? We are also asking why instead of following recommendations from internationally recognised experts from the IMF, such as channelling resources to support innovation programmes, the company's development programme and the innovation and development stock, the choice has been made to channel this money instead to projects in which it is not possible to create innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U9	Martin Helme next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U10	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the parliamentarians of the Conservative People's Party, I would like to refer to Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, an inquiry into the cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic and Ernst & Young. The profitability analysis of Ernst & Young, which has recently been published, shows that, compared to the 2011 AECOM study, the construction of Rail Baltic railway has become much more expensive and its profitability has decreased significantly. And a new dimension has been added to all this analysis, which is socio-economic income. Although Ernst & Young estimates that Rail Baltic may have a large number of socio-ecological effects, they are not detailed enough either. In summary, Ernst & Young estimates the total socio-ecological impact of EUR 4.58 billion and, as a result, the whole project is in surplus with nearly 900 million. We have a number of questions about both this aspect and the real rate of European Union funding, whether it is 85%, 81% or 83%. There is also the question of where this socio-economic benefit came from, whether this will make the study credible. And there is also the question why, despite the fact that the project is economically extremely damaging, the government still supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U11	Thank you. Next, please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the ambassadors of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I am giving an inquiry to the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele, which is reflected in the concern about the position of the Estonian language in a situation where immigration into Estonia is already approaching immigration during the Soviet occupation. Most of these people come from countries where Russian is used, and they will also use Russian here. It should be particularly important that we keep the use of Estonian, try to integrate them. Unfortunately, even the Minister of Rural Affairs and the Ministry have started to violate the Constitution, which says that the Estonian state language is Estonian and also the language of administration is Estonian. Our inquiry specifically concerns the Estonian fishing port day in April, where the Ministry of Rural Affairs sent out press releases and invitations in Russian. In this regard, we have four questions that I am not going to read now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U13	Thank you. Now please, Heili Tõnisson as a representative of the government!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates eight draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. First, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for supporting the defence capability structure of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. In processing this draft, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna. Secondly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws (amending the treatment of juvenile offenders). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Fourthly, the draft law on simplified taxation of business income. Fifthly, the draft law amending the State Assets Act. Sixth, the draft law amending the State Budget Act. Seventh, the bill for the sweet drink tax. Eighth, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act. And ninth, the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Minister of Finance Sven Sester represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the aforementioned six draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U15	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted ten drafts and five inquiries. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U16	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. In the name of the initiator, I ask the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, to present here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act and related amendments to other laws, which is numbered 428. The draft has four main objectives. Firstly, to increase competition between CSDs. Secondly, to broaden the opportunities for companies to raise capital. Thirdly, to enable people to look at the information about the second and third pension pillars from one perspective. And fourthly, encourage opportunities for foreign persons to invest in Estonia. Below I will also describe these four main objectives in more detail. First, increasing competition between CSDs. This is the main objective of the draft, which is based on European Union law, namely the CSD Regulation. A CSD shall be a body that maintains a register of securities holders as well as records of securities transactions. Why is competition between CSDs increasing? Because the draft provides an opportunity for Estonian public limited liability companies to register payments in another central depositorium providing services in Estonia instead of the central register of Estonian securities. This is not an option at the moment. All registered public limited liability companies with just over 3000 are required to register their shares in the Estonian Central Securities Register. The amendment may lead to a reduction in the costs of registering public limited liability companies paid, as public limited liability companies will also have the possibility to register their shares in another CSD. The second objective is to increase the possibilities for raising capital. With the draft, we are broadening the opportunities for companies to raise capital. Under current law, to raise capital of more than EUR 100 000, an overview, or prospectus, of an enterprise that includes money for investors must be drawn up. This prospectus must also be coordinated with the Financial Supervision Authority. It is quite costly to draw up a prospectus that meets strict requirements and has also proved to be an obstacle to raising capital. With a specific draft, we will raise the prospectus-free threshold from EUR 100000 to EUR 1 million. This means that drawing up a prospectus is not mandatory if the capital is to be raised to less than EUR 1 million. The third objective, as I mentioned earlier, is to combine information from the second and third pension pillars. The information on the units in the second and third pillars shall be aggregated into one pension account. Until now, the units of the third pillar have usually been accounted for in the securities account and in the units of the second pillar in a separate pension account. As a result of this change, it will not be necessary to open a separate securities account for future registration of third pillar units. People with units in both the second and third pillars will see data on both pension pillars in their pension accounts in the future. For example, you can see in which pension funds and how many units there are, which are the value of the shares, which transactions have been made, etc. The transition to a single pension account is scheduled to take place during the summer of 2018. Last, fourth, the aim is to encourage opportunities for foreign persons to invest in Estonia. Indeed, public limited liability companies and private limited liability companies are allowed to open a securities account for holding shares in the securities register without any intermediary from the bank. Due to different requirements, opening a securities account with banks to foreign persons has proved difficult. This, in turn, has prevented foreign persons from doing business in Estonia. A securities account, i.e. a savings account, will have limited rights: it is only intended to hold shares in a company. And this option will be available in 2019 according to the bill. Stakeholders have been consulted during the co-ordination of the draft, including the Financial Supervision Authority, the Banking Association, the Estonian Securities Centre and the Bar Association. The law enters into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U18	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a question about this prospectus requirement. Are we not too careful about the threshold of EUR 1 million? Please tell us all to know how much the directive will allow this threshold to be raised. I know that we have paid attention to the fact that it is still very expensive to make a prospectus. In the case of bond issues, this is quite an additional cost and additional bureaucracy. If we want to cut red tape, why should this threshold not be higher? Tell everyone to know how much room there is to raise this threshold. We have one million, but how much does the directive allow?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U20	Thank you. The truth is, if you look at the threshold levels in different countries, you can really see that they are different in different countries. We have generally had it at EUR 100000, as you know. There are, in fact, many thresholds for this 100,000: Bulgaria, Germany, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, France. It's always a question of where you put that threshold. A similar issue is also a face-to-face issue in banking, for example. If you make face to face more and more flexible, how much can this potentially raise questions about the origin of future money? It's an analogous question. Every time you raise the threshold, you basically also increase the potential risk to the investor on the issue of the availability of some information. To date, EUR 1 million has been reached for this specific proposal. If we look at what this threshold is, for example, in other countries, yes, I agree with Aivar Sõerd that there are countries where it is over 1 million. Even now, if we raise it ten times, there are still countries with more than a million: the Czech Republic, Denmark and Romania with 1 million, Luxembourg with 1.5 million, the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland with 2.5 million. In several countries it is even 5 million, including our closest neighbours Lithuania and Latvia. However, in the case of Latvia, in the case of Finland, by the way, there are additional terms in the draft prospectus. Perhaps if you have a higher threshold, there are additional conditions to meet these requirements. But yes, there are also higher thresholds. In order to raise this threshold ten times now, we have had discussions with both market participants and the Financial Supervision Authority during this process. It looks like it could be optimal, although, as you can see, this number could also be bigger. If you sense that we can go even higher, this directive really does, and some countries have done so. But now it seems that this tenfold increase could be enough to meet the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U21	Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U22	Thank you! Good minister! I have a question about the pension account. I understand that now the units of the voluntary pension fund are also transferred to the pension account. As we know, there are very different options for the third pillar. There's insurance contracts and more complicated contracts back there. So is everything going to be transferred to that account now? And could it also create some kind of confusion for the owners of the third pension pillar, who do not have the specific funds offered by the so-called "bought bank" but who, for example, have formed the funds themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U23	Thank you for that question. No, there's no mess. Basically nothing changes for people, for those who have first joined the second pillar. In fact, there are two registers: one is a pension register; the other is a securities register. In the draft they are separated, there must be two registers. There's an option for one register. As I said before, one pillar has so far been dealt with in the context of a securities account, the other in the context of a pension account. I would say that with this draft we will achieve much better clarity: a person actually has a full overview of his or her second and third pillars in one account. I think that this will not be confusing, but, on the contrary, it should add to simplicity. So I'd rather address it the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U24	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My question, too, concerns the relaxation of the conditions for the inclusion of share capital. I think that during the preparation of this draft, you have also learned the number that there have been a number of prospectuses in Estonia between EUR 100000 and EUR 1 million during the calendar year. What is the average cost or cost of a single prospectus? It seems to me, a little bit, that this is perhaps a pseudo-problem, that they're trying to do it more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U26	Yes, these costs have indeed been assessed and taken out of different cost levels. The question is whether the making of this prospectus is by its very nature burdensome or not. That's where the answer actually comes from. There have also been undertaken various data that have been publicly available, and derived from them. I'd share a few things with you. In itself, the cost of drawing up a prospectus is generally divided between two parties: one is legal advice and the other is financial advice. These are two consulting services that you actually need when you start making one prospectus. And it is also statistically pointed out that the cost of a legal counsellor when we talk about shares (we have shares and bonds separately) is EUR 30000 to EUR 40000. In the case of debt securities, the cost of the legal adviser is EUR 15000 to EUR 20000. When we are talking about a financial advisor, the cost of shares is EUR 15000 to EUR 20000 and, in the case of bonds, a little less, about EUR 10000. If we sum up the costs of both the legal advisor and the financial advisor, we can say that stock prospectuses are a size class of EUR 45000 to EUR 60000 and, in the case of bonds, EUR 25000 to EUR 30000. Now the question is that if a smaller issue, such as a EUR 200 000 share issue, is made, look at how much this cost will ultimately be in the case of a EUR 200 000 transaction. And that's why we could actually raise this threshold up to just this high cost right now. I tried to answer as thoroughly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U27	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U28	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I read in this bill's explanatory statement that it is possible to open a savings account without following due diligence in the field of money laundering and the prevention of terrorism. We know we've had problems with money laundering lately. Have you analysed how to mitigate potential risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U29	Thank you. Yeah, of course. In the case of different accounts, the question is always which risks are mapped, and also how to reduce these risks. If, for example, we look at the possibility for foreign persons to register their shares in a securities depositorium without a bank, that is the logic of a savings account, a securities account without a bank, on the one hand, there is a risk that the bank has, in general, been the intermediary link with a well-known due diligence obligation and has made stronger controls. If he's sidelined, so-called, you can open an account without him, then it follows that you have some limitations automatically. I think the most important thing is maybe the limit that says that you can essentially hold only shares and shares in this account, no other transaction can be made. I think this is the most important observation here. If there's more flexibility, there's a good chance there'll be some restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U30	Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This bill amends a lot of laws, including the Securities Market Act. Recently, you yourself brought the draft Securities Market Act to the Riigikogu and we dealt with it. There was also an increase in sanctions and fines. Now we are going back to dealing with these fines for legal persons, giving up to EUR 32000. Tell me, what are the compositions for which a fine of up to EUR 32000 may be imposed on a legal person and 300 daily fines for a natural person? It's just recently that we've changed this stock market law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U32	We're gonna change it again. I will also say immediately that today we have handed over the draft of the 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive, and there we will also raise both the amount of the penalty and the direct penalty: in my opinion, the amount of the penalty to EUR 5 million and the direct penalty to EUR 400000. But it's a separate law, that's what we're coming back to at some point. So to speak, the package of measures where they are, I can send you separately later. They are somewhere in the explanatory memorandum, but I am not going to find them here quickly in terms of saving time, i.e. exactly what these measures are and at what point we are reflecting possible fines or coercive measures. I will also send you information about this in writing, after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U33	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U34	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You are making such a rapid, energetic speech today that it is difficult for people who have not discussed this issue before, for example, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to get an overview of what we are doing right here. A good colleague, Urve Tiidus, asked the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson to explain his thoughts to his grandmother yesterday. Minister for Finance, would you now please explain to the person in Estonia who might want to follow us briefly and briefly once again what we are doing now? How does this make Estonia's life better? How does this make life for the people of Estonia better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U35	Thank you. I thank you for seeing in me the will to convey information and to convey the best knowledge. It's really the best I've got, and as much as I've got, I'm gonna give it to you. And I think that not only myself, but you yourself are certainly eager to process all the drafts that are currently going on here. But if you come to the essence of your question, of course, I am prepared to repeat everything before. I will give, if you so ask, another quick overview, which is actually the objectives of this draft. I bring out four things that are all good things. Firstly, we will increase competition between CSDs. There are no more of them now than the Estonian Securities Centre, but this competition could potentially arise in the future. We are expanding the opportunities for companies to raise capital. At present, this amount is EUR 100000, for which you have to make a prospectus, for which it will be EUR 1 million in the future. So these costs will potentially decrease from 100,000 to a million. We give people the opportunity to look at the levels of pension funds in both the second and third pillars from one perspective in the future. And certainly, what is important is that we give more flexibility to foreign people, citizens, when investing in Estonia. They will be able to open a securities account as a so-called "deposit account" to a limited extent much easier. These are good things that should improve our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U36	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It's a pleasure to see your energy in spring and the warm sun have made you happy enough to talk so energetically about it, but I'll come back to the beginning. This is an amendment which, although supposedly improves Estonia's situation and simplifies matters in every way, is, in fact, the application of the regulation from the European Union with Estonian law. And I do not think that without this regulation we should constantly ask here for explanations or circumstances. My question is: since this regulation also amends one directive and another regulation, and the aim is to bring the regulation of Estonian securities and company law into line with the regulation governing the activities of central securities depositories, when was this regulation adopted? And how have other countries of the European Union brought this regulation into line with their own laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U38	Thank you. It's always good to take a look at the explanatory memorandum. I always wonder how many members of the Riigikogu read through the state budget explanatory memorandum when we talk about the state budget, and it seems not very many. However, if you look at the explanatory memorandum to this draft, you will also see from there that the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on positions in central securities depositories has been in place since 2014. As regards those CSDs and amending the Directives, it will be 2012 onwards. At different levels, these 'various' levels of regulation are fixed. I think, for what we have agreed in Europe, that we ourselves are in the process, and we are not away from the process. In adapting the various directives, in adopting the laws of nation states, all countries themselves participate. It doesn't come from anywhere else, we're in this process ourselves. I think you are also a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, so you are going to participate even more intensively. There's nothing weird about that. I think that everything that comes from Europe is certainly not bad, and you should also tell your constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U39	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I, too, acknowledge your energy and fast speech (as I am accustomed to speaking quickly) and despite this, I have been able to follow you closely. This response, which concerned costs, was very comprehensive and exhaustive. Indeed, the argument was very convincing in order to raise the border. If we now raise EUR 100000 in share capital and the administration costs are 50% of it, it is absurd. In that sense, you convinced me of everything. But the second question I had was how much such share capital is involved from EUR 100000 to one million in one calendar year, if known.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U41	Thank you. I'm sorry, I really missed it. You know, I don't have that information for you right now, but I can transmit it to you. I can tell you that I have the data on how many different positions have been registered in a local CSD: the share of a limited company is just over 3000, i.e. 3167, the share of a fund 119, the share of a limited company is just under 3000, i.e. 2,907, and bonds are 206. But if you ask me how much is between that 100,000 and a million euros, I'll have it examined and, if necessary, I'll send you this information. I really don't have that information right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U42	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! You mentioned this draft explaining that it will increase competition between CSDs. And you added the sentence that there is currently only one in Estonia. Is it known when this competition will increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U44	Thank you. If you look at the short term, given that the Estonian market is small, this is a reality now, they may not really come up in the short term. But at least we're suggesting this possibility, it's going to happen. The market is, of course, small in itself and the costs of setting up a CSD must always be taken into account. But we're giving the framework, the opportunity to create it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U45	Maris Lauri, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm still coming back to that pension account, I didn't quite understand it. There's actually two things. One thing is that some people only have the third pillar. Will they not be subject to this redeployment? Secondly, if a person does not have any shares in a voluntary fund from a so-called bank, but, for example, is the insurance contract in the third pillar, will they also be transferred or something will change? I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U47	Thank you. I'll try to explain it again. The people themselves who have joined the third pillar do not have to do anything. All this transfer is actually done by the pension registrar. What will change for them in this context? They don't change like nothing. All this information relating to the second and third pillars will be on the pension account. Possible other agreements outside them may not be reflected. However, contracts relating to the second and third pillars, some life insurance contracts, as they are linked to the pillar, should actually all be reflected in this one pension account in the future. I think they're like concentrated in one place. For example, when third pillar units are acquired for the first time, there is no need to open a securities account at all. So far, this need has been one of the pension accounts, the other of the securities account, but now there is no longer this need. These units will automatically enter your pension account, especially if you have already joined the second pillar. All of this is done in bank account managers, and you'll find it easier, easier and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U48	Jaak Madison, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answer to my first question. I can certainly see myself reading here when this regulation has been adopted and the directives and regulations of the years are being amended, but it is always in the interest of the verbatim report to hear your energetic speech too, so that it is well known to everyone. I am certainly not saying that the European Union will only be bad, as you said. I think there's gonna be a lot of good shit, but there's gonna be a lot of shit, too. And I think you know that very well yourself. But there's another part of my question. On my first question, I asked how far it is for the other Member States to adopt this regulation, i.e. by applying their laws, to comply with the regulation adopted in 2014. That was my question, and I now ask for a more precise answer. And if you have time and time to answer, I also have an additional question. Why do we apply this regulation to our laws only three years after the regulation is adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U50	Thank you. It is always the case that they are moving at some pace in national proceedings. What is the pace of adoption of directives, including a specific directive, in other countries? This really is a specific question and I will send you a separate answer after: I will specify where Estonia is also by its very nature. Well, the process has been going on, and we've talked to all the parties. Sometimes it is said that too much haste is a problem, and sometimes it is said that see, see, too long a process of a problem again. So find the right middle ground so you don't have a problem. This bill has indeed been thoroughly prepared and has been spoken to all parties, as I mentioned before, both with the Financial Supervision Authority and with other interest organisations. And today we're in a place where we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U51	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This threshold has been moved to a million, but how much does this directive actually allow to raise this threshold?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U53	Thank you. If we look at the overall impact of the directive, it is also possible, as you can see, to raise it to 5 million. In itself, the question is whether we need such an impact or not, whether or not we want to raise the threshold so high. We're already raising it ten times, and right now it seems that this threshold level should satisfy us. If we want to increase it more, this will create a situation where we may have to start putting some additional restrictions on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U54	Andres Ammas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U55	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I have good news for you: a large number of members of the Riigikogu really do get to know the explanatory statement in depth. When I did that and came to page 29, I was a little puzzled. In fact, on page 29 of this explanatory memorandum, there is a section of the text in English. Two questions have been submitted to the Commission and two answers have been given, which have not been translated, probably fearing that it would be difficult to convert them into Estonian. I'm sorry, but my knowledge of English is not enough to understand and understand such a professional text in English. This text is not very long. Would you please translate this dialogue from English into Estonian right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U56	Yeah. As you can see, one question begins as follows: 'Can Estonia power, regardless of applicable law [---]' etc. And the second question is: 'Can Estonia, in case the applicable law [---]' etc. True story, my apologies that for some reason it has somehow remained in English here. If you look at the logic of the question, it is more about what specific follow-up actions will be in the case of Estonian emissions, and here, of course, the answers have been given. We're talking about primary missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U57	There don't seem to be any more questions. We would like to thank the rapporteur and ask for a chair of speech for the joint presentation by the Commission by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Commission before being sent to first reading on 18 April. The Government of the Republic was represented by the Minister of Finance, Mr Sester. He presented the content of the draft, which he has repeated here today at least twice. Then there was a debate. Mr Holsmer asked about the merging of the second and third pillars, who was affected. He received the answer that it only concerns pension funds, but not others. Then Mr Sõerd asked about this threshold exactly as it sounded three times today in this Chamber. The only thing that was given in the Commission's response was that the maximum threshold is 8 million, which is currently the case... This closed the debate and the Commission unanimously adopted four decisions. The chairman of the committee was appointed as co-rapporteur on behalf of the committee. It was decided to propose that this draft law be put on the agenda for today, 4 May, and to propose that the first reading be stopped. And the amendments were tabled ten days, until 18 May at a quarter to six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U59	Thank you. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U60	Thank you for this presentation. We also found out about this threshold, it's 8 million. The Minister of Finance could not answer that question. But what additional tasks could this, in your opinion, be assigned to the Data Protection Inspectorate and the National Information System Authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U61	Thank you for your question. This was not discussed in the Commission. At the same time, I think that the same directive provides for all these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U62	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is to conclude draft 428 first reading and first reading... Now, I understand that for technical reasons, Mart Helme's wish to open negotiations did not appear on the screen. Now it's on the screen. Please, Mart Helme, let's open the negotiations! I beg you for your speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U63	Mr. President! In fact, I have to hand over to the Board of the Riigikogu our group's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act at first reading. That's what we're gonna get to.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U64	I would point out, however, that negotiations are currently taking place on the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it, where representatives of the political groups can get the floor to express their position on this draft. And I understand that there are no more representatives of the political groups who would like to express their views on this draft. I repeat that the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 428 and the first reading is to be completed. And I will set the deadline for the submission of 428 amendments, including 18 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U65	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'd like you to present a speech chair to Secretary of Finance, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws. The government has presented you with a draft, motivated by a European Union directive laying down requirements for the marketing of insurance. The purpose of the draft law is to harmonise requirements in insurance sales channels, an important measure to protect customers. The insurance client must obtain an insurance contract corresponding to his insurance interest. For this purpose, all persons selling insurance are qualified and of good repute, are familiar with insurance products and are able to advise customers on the complexity of the products offered. As a novelty, the insurer is obliged to record the stages of the development and introduction of the insurance product on the insurance market and to supplement the regulation of sales requirements in case the insurance is offered together with other products or services. The non-life insurance provider must draw up a summary information document for each insurance relationship separately. The standardised information document will provide the customer with an overview of the insurance product in the future, helping the customer to compare non-life insurance products and make prudent decisions. The regulation is scheduled to enter into force on 23 February 2018. That's what I'm done with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U67	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. First please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, do these legislative changes have an impact on the insurance premium?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U69	The question is always how much impact the premium will have on the potential administrative burden. After all, the amendment will have an impact on the insurance provider and beyond, indeed, on the potential insurance buyer. We have assessed that this impact is not significant. The insurer will also be subject to training: he must train himself to provide a better service to the customer. But it is also a cost that he will try to pass on to some extent the insurance price in the future. However, we have estimated that this effect is not so significant that it would create a situation in the market where the customer will have to pay much more. Rather, the market itself regulates itself. These different price levels do not impose a significant additional burden on the customer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U70	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, it may be that when people go on a tourist trip to buy insurance, other insurances are often offered to them. Does this bill change regulation in any way that if I go to a travel agency, the way they can offer me insurance is different? Is there a change in this or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U72	Of course, travel agencies can also offer insurance. But the role is played by what is your main activity: whether you sell cars and your additional activities are insurance sales or you are, for example, a tour operator and your additional activities are insurance sales. Here come these nuances relating to insurance intermediaries, or brokers, agents, and insurance companies themselves. In the case of travel insurance, according to the current law, the annual insurance premium does not exceed EUR 500, which in future will increase to EUR 600, which should be better. The same example of travel insurance is good, in essence annual insurance has been calculated for 528 euros worldwide. Under the current regime, this would not be covered by the exemption, and in the future it will be possible to do so. But in their nature, insurance companies can still offer their customers insurance and in this context, changes in the thresholds are rather positive. Travel agencies had doubts as to whether they could even offer 'further' because of the new limits. It can be said that there are no problems, rather the law is even more lenient.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U73	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U74	It has been said here that there are several aspects of insurance that there are different types of insurance. The main problem is that the object of insurance becomes complex. A person goes on a tourist trip and needs to secure it, this and this. The person who builds the house needs to secure that, that and that. These are no longer the individual types of insurance that they were a couple of decades ago. In this respect, I would like to have the most clear and comprehensive answer possible as to how responsibility for complex insurance or insurance package is divided between the individual components of this package. Is the responsibility final or not? I am sure that this is a completely solved problem and we are going in the right direction. But how is it now, and what will it be? Who's responsible if there's insurance for more than one agent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U75	Thank you. It is specifically responsible for who has proposed this insurance product. The one who takes the risk on his own shoulders is a specific ultimate liability and liability. That's my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U76	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U77	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I would like to continue on this agenda, too, on philological issues, by resolving the differences between English and Estonian. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the term 'insurance service' is deliberately used instead of 'insurance product'. Opinions on this draft have also dealt with it in a little more detail. This may mislead people who are exposed to insurance. Can you explain why the insurance service has been chosen instead of the insurance product? What difference does it make in English? Please make this clear to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U78	Thank you. This is an old, well-known question about the relationship between paragraphs 6 and 13. I'm certainly not a strong philologist, as I've said before. Everyone stay with their own grids. However, the table of coordination and comments also sets out what to mean by the product and what to use as a service. Let's stick to that! I have nothing to add separately, my philological knowledge is not such that I can explain the concept of product and service even more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U79	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U80	Thank you! Good waitress! The summary of the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that the aim is to achieve undistorted competition in the marketing of insurance, even better customer protection and a more integrated insurance market in the European Union. I am simply asking: what will a common citizen gain from this bill? What's gonna be better for him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U81	I think the most important aspect is perhaps that the product provider becomes more professional. It is crucial that, if we buy a product, the seller of the product himself understands exactly what it sells and how it has to sell, what are the risks associated with one contract or another. This needs to be addressed, including through training. The directive states that you must train people who are involved in the provision of insurance products. I think this is an important aspect that will come up. And the whole client's counseling is becoming more and more topical. The service or product you offer must be well understood by you, and the next step is that you are able to explain it thoroughly when making a specific offer to the customer. I think this is one of the most important aspects of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U82	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The directive to be transposed by this draft also regulates the advertising of insurance products on TV and in the media at all. We have outstanding experience in regulating alcohol advertising. How does this draft regulate the promotion of insurance products? What are the requirements for advertising so that it is not misleading and should be seen in the light of good practice? How does this draft regulate the promotion of insurance products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U84	As you yourself said in your question, advertising must not be misleading to the customer. Everything must be clear, clear and clear and the customer must understand what product is being offered to him. These are the most important aspects. There is, of course, no time limit for insurance, just as there is for the alcohol you mentioned. This is a different kind of product; there is no time limit here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U85	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U86	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! This bill seems very special in two ways. First of all, it will be introduced for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, it seems to be in great weight. Secondly, I have not seen before that a draft will be brought before the Estonian Parliament before the euro directive enters into force. I read here that the directive will be in force on 23 February 2018 and that the law on this draft will also be in force by that time. Please explain the specific practice of the government and any practice related to directives. My practice in the Committee on Legal Affairs has been that the government brings the drafts to the Commission after the directives are in force, and we are often intimidated by heavy fines. How has the reverse practice been implemented this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U87	In fact, it is true that the directive will be adopted and stated when it should be in force in all Member States. During this period, all Member States will also have to transpose it into their own legislation. Not always, but from time to time, the problem is that Member States are unable to enforce the requirements of the Directive by the agreed time. Today, however, this is a very positive example: we are working at such a pace that by the time the directive comes into force, we have already adopted it in our legislation. That's the way it's supposed to be! Unfortunately, it has to be said that several directives have not done so. The directive has already come into force, some Member States have transposed it into their national law, some have not. Then the European Union will launch certain processes that may culminate in a fine. In this sense, today it is a pattern of regularity. We know when the directive will be in force, we are working on this issue and we are adopting a legislative amendment before the directive enters into force. That is our goal and our duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U88	Igor Gräzin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U89	Honourable waitress! Purely legal, insurance is by nature a wager. The policyholder bet you something's gonna happen, and the insurance company's gonna bet you it's not gonna happen. That's the legal prototype. Insurance has grown out of betting in ancient Rome. That is why I have a question. Paragraph 2221 "Not assessing the suitability and appropriateness of an investment-risk life insurance contract' is included in the draft. If this is a special type of wager, how can one party even regulate how something is valued or not valued? Isn't that the inappropriate interference of the state in the functioning of the free market and the deep nature of the insurance contract? The insurance agreement that the state is intervening in the middle, I don't know what it is. Gosstrah was in the Soviet Union, but it collapsed too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U90	Thank you, good Igor! Your questions are always enjoyable in linguistic and structural terms. I'm telling you, of course we're based on our best knowledge. And I'm sure the state will do everything in its power to intervene as little as possible in a person's personal life. However, I assure you that the state does not, of course, engage in betting; it will certainly not be that party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U91	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You alternately use the words 'product' and'service'. In the meantime, there was a discussion about this term. What, then, is it really what we are discussing: are we talking about a product or a service?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U93	I'd rather talk about products.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U94	Maris Lauri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I still want to understand, and I'm sure everyone else wants to understand what's gonna change for a normal person when he goes to buy something and he gets insurance. Examples include tourism travel insurance and car insurance. What's gonna change for a human? Is there going to be some sort of procedure or some kind of requirement? How does a person feel and see that things have gotten better? At least I hope it gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U96	I've already talked about it, but I'm going to go over a few more thoughts. This directive, by its very nature, is purely aimed at protecting customers. This is the basic thing that this directive is seeking to achieve. The aim is that insurance companies offering insurance products are qualified. They therefore have to comply with certain requirements. They must be of good repute. They must know the insurance products offered to the customer. I already told you about the training, they have to be able to advise the client when offering different products. When we look at what the process is, we see that everything is fixed from training to product itself: what tasks do you have as a broker, what kind of agent? The whole aim of this directive is to improve customer-oriented activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U97	Aivar Sõerd, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This draft amends the definition of an insurance agent and an insurance broker, which is in § 175 in relation to insurance. It also defines persons involved in the marketing of insurance under special conditions, i.e. intermediaries of ancillary contracts and the requirements imposed on them. The term "Cash Value Insurance Contract" means an Insurance Contract issued by a Member State of the European Union or by a Member State of the European Union or by a Member State of the European Union or by a Member State of the European Union. But now it's 500 euros. What is the difference between 500 and 600 euros? What does it get for 100 euros? Why such a change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U99	This is a proportionate calculation. In the past, you had one insurance contract, the one Igor Gräzin asked about, he drew attention to it. There is now a proportionate calculation based on a total premium of EUR 600. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U100	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister of Finance. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U101	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks to the waitress! Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 429. First reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for tabling 429 amendments, including 28 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U102	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the draft law before the first reading took place at the Commission's regular meeting on 20 April. The Government of the Republic was represented by Kristiina Kubja, chief specialist at the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. He gave an overview of the impact of the amendment of the law. Then there was a debate. I am not going to name who asked what, but I am going to say that questions were raised by the Members of the Commission Sõerd, Holsmer, Onion, Ammas and Stalnukhin. There were almost as many questions as there were today in this Chamber. They started by recognising that the Insurance Act entered into force only in 2016 and were interested in why we are going to regulate this sphere again. The answer was that this draft law was due to the Euro Directive and the changes we are currently making could not be foreseen in 2016. What obligations do the parties face because of the changes? It was said that the policyholder would not receive any additional liabilities, rather the conditions of the insurance process would give him more opportunities. You could say that his life is getting better. But the insurer must become more professional, the insurance interest must be clarified. At the level of the law, there is a minimum requirement for training so that everything becomes more professional. Does the insurance broker have an additional obligation to identify the client's interests? The answer was that the regulation concerning the broker is already very good; the draft extends the same requirements to the insurer. Since there was a discussion in this Chamber, I'm going to finish reading that answer. Until now, the insurance company was not required to state the nature of the benefit or remuneration it would receive for the provision of the service, but for example, in the case of a trip, the broker would be subject to such an obligation. This helps to avoid conflicts of interest and insurance customers' interests are protected at any time. Will the number of persons entitled to sell insurance decrease? The answer was that it wasn't. But the quality of the service and the qualifications of insurance sellers will increase. Their knowledge corresponds to the complexity of the service sold. There was a question of how this would affect the price of the service. The answer was that it didn't affect in any way. The logical question is: who organises the training and who pays for it? It turned out that insurance companies have already organised such annual studies. They are primarily dealt with by the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Insurance Broker Association and the Ministry of Finance. Does the Estonian Insurance Association support the draft? The answer was that he was the initiators' partner in the development. I think that the questions and answers in the Commission were such that the subject was exhausted. Yesterday, the committee had a meeting with the Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Insurance Association. It was the staff of the Commission and me, the bigger one, as it wasn't. However, I repeated my question as to whether the agency was satisfied with this draft. The answer was that the course of things will be monitored and that, since it is a fully understandable euro directive, it will be accepted. Four procedural decisions were adopted by consensus in the committee on 20 April: to appoint the chairman of the committee as co-rapporteur, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be put to first reading by 4 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline of 18 May at 5.15 p.m. for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U103	The third item is the draft law amending the Pensions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Investment Funds Act 427. I ask for a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the speech chair, Secretary of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft law amending the Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act, which is numbered 427. The main objectives of today's first-reading draft relate to the disbursements of the second pillar of pensions. The draft aims to improve the competitive situation, offer alternatives to the payment of pensions and make the entire system even more transparent. In addition, the draft includes amendments to the payment of the third pillar. As in the case of pensions in general, money from the second pillar is paid out as a life-long pension. To this end, a pension contract must be concluded with the assurance undertaking. If too little money is collected for this purpose, payments are made directly from the pension fund. An amount of less than EUR 8800 shall be paid in the form of a fund pension if the amount collected does not exceed EUR 1760, it may also be withdrawn at the same time. Payments under pension contracts and payments from pension funds differ in that in one case the income is guaranteed until the end of retirement and in the other, payments are made for up to ten years. In addition, they also differ in terms of investment risk. The current law requires that, in the case of pension contracts, the investment risk be assumed by the insurance undertaking; the pensioner cannot take the investment risk. In the case of pension funds, the opposite is true: payments are made from pension funds and the investment risk is borne by the pensioner. By offering the first pillar pension and creating the conditions for the second pillar, the state is trying to ensure that no one gets into poverty in their old age. These two pension pillars provide pensioners with income until the end of their retirement age, and the amount of the pension depends, of course, on the amount collected for the second pillar. The draft will make the choice of pension contracts more diverse. Regardless of the amount collected, all people will be able to choose between a guaranteed income or an income depending on the investment result. People who are paid out of the second pillar as a life-long pension can choose in the future either a pension contract offering interest-rate guarantees, which is today, or an investment-risk pension contract. In the case of an investment-risk pension contract, the pension is paid for the rest of the life, but the money collected is further invested in pension funds, so the amount of the pension will depend on how the investments are going. The amendment also takes into account the challenges posed by the offer of an interest rate guarantee and seeks solutions to increase second pillar pensions in a low interest rate environment. If the desire to take risks later disappears, the risk can be reduced by choosing a more conservative pension fund as underlying assets or by switching the investment risk from the guaranteed pension contract to the guaranteed rate pension contract. As regards the addition of new contracts, the existing principle that only one pension contract can be concluded at retirement is amended. In the future, the unit-holders may, if they so wish, enter into several contracts, such as one investment risk, with another guaranteed interest rate. People who have received too little money to pay a life-long pension, i.e. less than 50 times the national pension rate, i.e. less than 8800 euros, will be able to choose between a fund pension and a fixed-term pension contract. Payments shall be made on the basis of such a contract for the same duration as in the case of a fund pension and the term of the contract shall depend on how young a particular pensioner is. In retirement, for example, at the age of 65, the contract must be concluded for at least nine years, and the investment risk will then be assumed by the life insurance company instead of the pensioner. The bill takes into account that older people generally prefer certainty over possible risks. The Act enters into force in general terms: changes concerning the conclusion of the pension contract under the new conditions are planned to take effect on 1 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U105	You have questions too. First Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is a very important draft, whose explanatory statement is 150 pages thick and which makes quite a lot of pension insurance conditions and regulation. At present, pensioners have quite few options, and these options will expand in the future. A pensioner can also take investment risks and choose between different products. However, how does the state ensure that those people, especially pensioners who are not well informed about financial products, are informed? Will the State organise this and will there be any professional advisors? How does this whole spectrum of opportunities get to pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U107	Thank you. The state itself is not a direct manager of pension funds; all kinds of private companies do this work. But the state will certainly try to make the most of itself by informing people that such opportunities have arisen. Let us not forget that this is a decision whether you want to take certain risks. If you wish, you must consider that your income may increase in the future, but may also decrease. That's always the case with risking. But we give more opportunities, and the state can always communicate what opportunities are, what they contain. Of course, when selling a product, sellers themselves explain all of this and show where the underlying assets are invested. In case of risk taking, it is possible to choose where the underlying assets are specifically placed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U108	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U109	Thank you. Good minister! I'm trying never to retire myself, but there's bound to be thoughts on it. Can you comment on why the pension system is structured in such a way that if I retire in the future and want to withdraw the money I have collected at the same time, I will not be allowed to do so? Is there any other reason why the state doesn't trust me as a spender of money? What is your own position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U110	Thank you. First of all, the introduction to the question. I think you'll have a chance to enjoy retirement someday. All governments will do their utmost to ensure that you have a safe retirement in the future. This was done by previous governments and will be done by both the current and future governments. I don't think you're gonna get that chance. But now, from your question, can we withdraw the money in the second pillar once we reach retirement age? In principle, this is not foreseen. The idea has been that we can discuss it, that the second pillar will support the first pillar. The logic of the structure of our pension system has been this, and the common objective of the first and second pillars is, in summary, that when the retirement age is reached, the total income of the two pillars should be such that certain risks arising from retirement are covered. You have to deal with your daily life. The second pillar is not meant to withdraw money at once. As I mentioned earlier, only if you have very little accumulated in the second pillar, it was probably less than EUR 1770, then you will immediately be paid the full amount. But I don't think so. If you ask for my personal opinion, we still have a third, voluntary pillar. Well, it's a discussion place whether the country should design its products differently. After all, the goal is clear: when the time comes when you will not work and retire, you should have a decent life. That is the real purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U111	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is, of course, a good thing that people have more options and that, in addition to guaranteed rate pension contracts, we can also choose a contract that depends on investments. Of course, everything depends on a person's awareness and willingness to take risks. But right now, we're channeling all the risks, if he chooses this other option, from the insurance company to the future pensioner himself. Suppose the risk taken does not justify itself and nothing returns from these investments. Shouldn't it also be considered that even if a person chooses an investment-dependent contract, he or she would still be guaranteed at least a minimum level of payout, to a certain percentage? It's not right now, and if it's going really bad, it's really bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U113	In principle, it is possible for a person to make several insurance contracts according to this bill. If it wants to choose a contract with a guaranteed interest rate and a different one, whatever proportion it chooses, it will also take an investment risk. Your question is whether the country should tell him never to choose a 100% risk. I don't think that makes any sense. The important thing is that a person can take both chances. It's a question of his feeling, he doesn't have to do it, but he has the chance. If he says that in any case the risk involves the possibility of losing money, then yes, that's the logic of the risk: you can win, you can lose. If a future pensioner wants to put some part of the guaranteed fund in order to minimize his risks, he has the chance. There isn't one right now. At the moment, there are no more than one contract to be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U114	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U115	Thank you! Good waitress! My question arises from the changes in the third pillar in the provision of occupational pensions. It says here that it will be possible to offer, in addition to the contracts concluded so far, such conditions that payments will not be made until the policyholder has reached the agreed retirement age of the contract. Please explain today's procedure and what changes will now be made in this regard. How does all this motivate the employee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U116	Thank you, that's a good question! At the moment, it is basically possible to withdraw this third pillar money, with certain benefits and non-preferentials applying to you. You have this opportunity right now, and you don't have to wait until retirement age. The main reason behind this change is the request of employers. Employers have this problem that if they want to have long-term employment relationships with their employees and provide them with security for retirement, then in fact, if you really have worked in the company for a certain number of years, but at some point you leave there, you can withdraw the money. Now the employer and the employee are given the opportunity to make a payment, not a commitment, but an opportunity to agree with each other that the third pillar payment made by the entrepreneur for you as your employee can be used in the future once you have retired. This opportunity has been created and has mainly been the wish of employers. Again, it does not oblige anything, such an agreement may not be concluded between the contractor and the employer, but it is an option. What is it really aimed at? It is aimed at ensuring that a person does not withdraw all this money in a month or two or a year's time, but uses it when the retirement age has arrived. Now this opportunity is being created, and it is certainly very important. This is what employers have wanted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U117	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In fact, I understand Lauri Swan's concern that she will never make it to her pension. Looking at the current government's activities both in tax policy matters and in other economic matters, it may be feared that the average life expectancy of men simply does not allow retirement, especially if the government intends to increase the retirement age. However, I absolutely cannot accept your attitude towards risk-taking. I remember the discussions in previous governments on fast-track loans. Our point of view was, yes, it's a man's choice, but we wanted to protect the client from unreasonable interest. Should we not think of the exact same thing on this issue? If the risk is borne only by a future pensioner and, at some point, he is losing all his money, would the current government not feel any responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U119	Thank you, good questioner! Honestly, I'm a little impressed. Excuse me, but you, who are the representative of the liberal party, come with such a question. Offering people additional opportunities without taking away their previous opportunities is the best that can be done. To say that, oh-oh-oh, let's not guess, maybe a person is wrong... I certainly don't share that view. Rather, what one questioner asked about makes sense: the best work must be done to inform people of the existence of risks. People may not just know that there are risks. But to take away the possibility of new products, I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U120	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. People sometimes assume that members of the government are a little visionary. That's the question I'm asking you. A generation born since 1983 has had to enter into a mandatory second-pillar pension insurance agreement. These are people who retire in the second half of the century. It is as if this legislative amendment gives more choice, but it also means more risk for these people and an obligation to take responsibility for their own future. Please tell me if there are any other things in this pension system that will change soon and which you are worried about as a visionary. Don't talk about this aging company!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U122	I'm talking about what I want to say, and you're asking what you want to ask. I would not really like to open a large and broad discussion of our Estonian pension system today. Because what are we doing here today? We are talking about how, if a person has already retired, how he could then use the money available. This is what we are talking about in this particular bill. If we wanted to open up a discussion about whether the second pillar is necessary at all, how it is organised to collect money during this period, until a person retires, whether there are other models, of course, and what could be the best model, then this could be done, but these would be completely separate discussions. Today we are not talking about how you collect money until you retire, we are talking about how you spend money when you are retired. The point of concern in this draft is how we behave when this moment is at hand: either we choose an investment risk or a guarantee contract, we go on a pension insurance contract or on a life insurance contract, or we have everyone paid out immediately. How money is collected or even what you asked about is not the subject of this, but the subject of the second draft. That would require a wide-ranging debate. I think it might even be a matter of national importance here in this Chamber for discussion. We could discuss whether the system is sustainable, contribute to the good generation of Estonian pensioners, and what other alternative might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U123	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U124	Good minister! That is a relatively fundamental question for me, because it is a mistake that goes through this draft. This is a permanent mistake and I draw attention to the definition of the pension contract provided for in § 41 of the Act. The title does not correspond to the content as it is a mandatory funded pension insurance contract. An insurance contract cannot by its nature be a pension contract. The idea of this verbal, let's say, fraud I understand very well: the state wants to place responsibility for its screw-up on the pensioners. And I understand the country. What's it gonna do to a pensioner, he won't last long, he won't last until the election, let's see what happens next. I understand that motivation. But shouldn't we at least verbally confuse people? This is a compulsory funded pension insurance contract. The dutyholder is the state, by the way, but porridge must be eaten by simple people like me who always get caught in contact with the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U125	It was a very complicated construction. I'll tell all the listeners outside, but also in this hall, no, the state certainly doesn't mess up or mess up. If you sense that there's an inconsistency somewhere, let's review these inconsistencies. But I don't think there's any inconsistencies here. At the same time, as always, it is Parliament who will finally take the decisions. With three readings, some changes can be made. But I don't think there's a real mismatch.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U126	Terje Trei, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U127	Thank you! I'm still sticking to my point. Good waitress, you explained that the employer and the employee will agree on something and then everything will work out. If so, why is it necessary to write down such a thing in the law that payments are not made until retirement age is reached? If we can agree, why such a clause? Is this a little related to the disappearance of special pensions and the creation of a third pillar of pensions for public authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U128	No, it's not. The question is very simple. If we agree on anything today, it does not have a regulatory basis. If the employer transfers money to the third pillar for you, we can agree among ourselves not to adopt it sooner than you have retired, but the legal base of this agreement does not exist. It can't be fixed. There are no separate clauses for third pillar money in the current legislative base. We can agree with each other, but it doesn't have the power of law. The money goes into the third pillar of the pension, there are no separate interim criteria. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U129	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I did not know that losing patriotism also means a little rudeness to a member of the Riigikogu. I think you showed this rudeness against Urve Tiidus. I don't think you understand my question. I dare say that liberality also requires social nerves and senses. The introduction of parental benefit in Estonia is certainly one of its patterns. But my question was whether the risks of the current options will be reduced in the future. I referred to SMS loans in these cases, in fact, we discussed the same problems where risks are taken and what is a fair percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U131	I'm trying to stick to the bill. It seems that we are going to be very political, and that is not the goal. I'm sure I'm never interested in insulting anyone, trying to remember my children's lessons. The insult doesn't go on. But as far as your question is concerned, I say that, as the government looks at, we would rather expand this package, giving people more opportunities to invest their money in the future if they retire, taking certain risks if they want. We'd rather give more opportunities. The person can decide for himself which products he chooses for himself in the future: whether he chooses a single product or whether he chooses several products by differentiating the use of money, leaving one product, taking the next product. All these opportunities are there. Regarding these different products, it is also said that if a person were to take risk products and if we were to intervene in his choices, that would be wrong in nature. The question arises: once we have given people palette choices, if we no longer trust them, they do not believe in their ability to make wise choices. Then we can leave it the way it is now: let us say that you are not at all able to choose funds with a risk product. At present, only a guaranteed interest rate agreement is possible. I think it's a question of options.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U132	Monika Haukanõmm, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is also a bit of a question of vision. When the Ministry of Social Affairs talks about the pension system, it focuses on the first pillar and says that it is a national part of the pension. When we talk about the second and third pillars, it is already under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, and we are talking about this as a financial instrument, as a financial product. The pension system should be discussed as a whole. We tell people to look at the bigger picture. If we change something in the first pillar, it is supported by the second and third pillars. If we look at the government's actions, the question arises as to whether the government sees the system as a whole. Everyone is very active in his own silo: one drives his own line, the first pillar, the other drives his own second and third pillars. Where's the point of contact? How do you think we could ideally get to the full picture and end these silo towers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U134	It's always a question of assumptions. If you rely on any assumptions, it is important whether these assumptions are correct or not. I don't think we have any silo today, we're looking at it in full. In an earlier question, the question was whether we could think about taking money out at once in the case of the second pillar. No, you couldn't! Because the first and second pillars are actually meant to exist together. This will also include these obligations concerning the second pillar for people of a certain age. From the point of view of the whole picture, at one point it is no longer one pillar or another; the principles and procedure for collecting them are different. The way the pillars change in themselves over time may be different, but in fact they are already considered in combination. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U135	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Listening to my colleague's question, I was confused. It is my understanding that if two people, even if one is an employer and the other is an employee, agree on a matter, then it applies whether there is something in the law about it or whether there are limits elsewhere. Yes, there are also legislative boundaries, but if they are not violated, then an agreement between the employer and the employee should be maintained. If they agree that the employer will pay a certain amount to the pension pillar and they decide that the payment will be made either way or in some way, then I do not understand why such an agreement between the employer and the employee, if both of them are satisfied with it, could not apply. But it turns out from what you're saying, it's not acceptable. The state states how the pension fund paid out between the employer and the employee must be paid. Did I misunderstand, or what's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U137	The agreements may be in force. Of course they can, and they should! Here's the problem. We agree with you that you, as an employer, will make payments to me in the third pillar, and I have told you that if I ever become a pensioner, my pension payments will be higher. That is also the logic and idea of the third pillar. At the same time, in reality, nothing will prevent me, even if I have assured you otherwise, from making use of this money in some period of a year, in two years' time. The current law does not prevent this. One of the thoughts of today's draft is that if it is so-called fixed, the law also states that such an agreement will be reflected in the third pillar, and if you have a desire to withdraw money later, you will not be able to realise that desire. This has been agreed between the employer and the contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U138	Igor Gräzin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U139	I have to come back to this concept again. I am saying that this is not a pension contract and that the word is deeply misleading. Let's go on. § 461 of the bill deals with an investment-risk pension contract. It states that there will be no disbursements, or rather there will be no guarantee for payments calculated at zero guaranteed interest rates, etc. In other words, instead of pension, we are actually talking about creating a certain investment instrument and putting investment risk into retirement. As a true liberal, I believe that treating a pension as an investment is deeply immoral. Pension is a guaranteed thing. In short, with this whole combination, you are trying to make sure that the state and investment funds screw up to the pensioners. By the way, our mutual friend Reet Roos only recently said that investment is for professionals. We are talking about people who have completed their careers. You make them investors. Is it really beautiful?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U140	I think it's beautiful. I think it is very important to give people opportunities. I don't think we should take away people's chances. I do not think that giving an opportunity should be deplorable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U141	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U142	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! One of the aims of the amendments proposed by this law is to increase the transparency mentioned at the outset. I know that in some countries people are constantly and systematically informed. I have heard that in Sweden, a person receives an envelope about once a year, in which he or she will be informed of the amount of the future pension calculated at that time. Please explain in more detail how this law will increase people's information and transparency of the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U143	As I said, this bill itself gives a person a chance to understand. And what is crucial: once you have your retirement period, you will be able to decide whether to have your pension paid out in the old way, using a traditional option only guaranteed by interest, or to use the opportunity to improve your competitive position if you have such skills and knowledge. It is important to add flexibility. All this subsequent management of pensions, as well as disbursements, will become clearer. You have a clear position regarding fund pension, fixed-term pension contracts. If you have little money, you know what options you have, you can make choices, and if you have more money, it is also clear that you choose one or another fund. You're gonna have choices, you're gonna have an understanding. There are no such options at the moment. I think these are the most important points that can be pointed out in terms of changing this system and creating transparency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U144	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This bill will create a whole new situation, create new opportunities. But a person must be very well informed of these possibilities. How is it designed to organise all this communication so that people can make use of these new opportunities in the first place? After all, every law we impose on people both opportunities and restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U146	Thank you, very good question! Once it was said here that the state is doing its utmost to inform society that such an opportunity has arisen. It's an opportunity, not an obligation. The pension funds themselves will probably work to introduce their product portfolio, after all, they have the interest in what opportunities they offer when talking about risky investments. For example, what past returns have been, perhaps not specifically linked to pensions, but to other funds. There will certainly be support from the private sector. But, of course, in the public sector, every time a law is passed and it concerns society as a whole, especially when flexibility is increased, work is being done to communicate it and to announce that new opportunities have arisen. The important thing is that new opportunities have emerged.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U147	Maris Lauri, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U148	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I'm still coming back to my occupational pension and this deal. For me, it got even more confusing with every one of your explanations, to be honest. If the employer and the employee agree that pension payments will be made when the retirement age arrives, why do they still need to be recorded in a separate law? If they agree that payments will be made, for example, when a person reaches the age of 60, will all such things be banned or what will happen now exactly? I really don't understand. Your answer was so confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U149	When I take out the verbosograms, I see, every time we have a debate, you're talking crazy answers. And one thing you have not said yet is that the questions have not been answered. That's another one you always mention. I'm sure you can say that again today. But I'll try to explain it to you one more time. If you make a deal with each other today, it's an agreement between you. All in all, this money is transferred to a third position, i.e. a retirement account where the third pillar money is received. Today, we state by law that if you make such an agreement, it will be possible to take into account the position of your agreement in the calculation of your pension account in the future. That's the difference compared to today. You can make a deal today, of course, but it's just a deal that a contractor can break if he wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U150	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U151	For quite a few years now, I have advocated that people in the second pillar should be able to withdraw money when they retire, at least partly. It is precisely because, given our rather crappy pensions, which will remain rather crappy in the future, when people retire, people could get some money to reorganize their lives, such as moving from Tallinn to Haapsalu or making some other adjustments to make it better after a small pension. I have received a lot of positive feedback from ordinary people to my articles and speeches, but I have not received the slightest positive feedback from our liberal or conservative politicians who actually think it is right that people should manage themselves. A moment ago, the remote also sounded like we shouldn't take away people's opportunities. How do you assess whether we really do not have the political will to support this intervention so that people can manage themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U152	We are now opening a deeper philosophical dispute over the logic of the first and second pillars. What is the meaning of the second pillar in its nature, perhaps explained by Eiki Nestor, who later asks the question. Maybe when he asks his question, he'll open it up because he's a bit of an author of these ideas. But in itself, the idea of the second pillar is to support the first pillar. This objective has been essentially. The objectives are basically the same for the first and second pillars: to be supportive and to reduce the risks you face when you retire in the future. It has itself been said that the first pillar in its nature is not socially sustainable in the current situation, because the pension is too small. And now the question is whether the second pillar will play an important role in this case. It's really a question of proportions. If you noticed, it was before the discussion in this Chamber that maybe we would give a person too much opportunity and, in the case of risk products, a person would suddenly take too many risks. Well, the question is, how much can you give a person a chance at all? The other extreme would probably be that in the pension system and, for example, in medical insurance, you would not have compulsory insurance. Either you pay or you don't. If you don't pay, you don't get medical treatment other than first aid. In America, the medical system, if I'm not mistaken, is actually sort of built up like this. Countries are different. Estonia has tried to move in this direction to ensure more security for the period when you have retired.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U153	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U154	Thank you. Minister, I cannot take the floor, so I must give my opinion in the form of a question. First of all, very reasonable thoughts. Thank you for this bill. Secondly, I would like to say that honourable MPs may understand why the first pillar pension cannot be withdrawn at the pre-retirement age, just like the second pillar. You have to look at them together. I would like to say to Maris Lauri that if the regulation on occupational pensions were to be maintained as it once did, there is a danger that hidden pay will be paid under the name of the pension. But I would like to thank the Minister very much for this explanatory statement. I recommend this to all members of the Riigikogu who are interested in the subject. This is really a fundamental job. I would also like to thank the authors of this. The question, however, is this: is the Minister willing to pass it on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U155	Yes, the Minister is certainly willing to pass on that thanks. I can also confirm this for the sake of the verbatim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U156	It should be said that if the President of the honourable Riigikogu wishes to speak, there will probably be such an opportunity in the order of the chair that the President of the Riigikogu can hold his speech on such an important point. Now, please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U157	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Speaking of the third pillar, this is an extremely marginal problem if 100,000 employers consider it necessary just over 100 and around 700000 employees under 2000. Here's my question. If we adopt this law, how many of these employers will be in about three years' time to give them some time to contribute to the third pillar. There are 159 of them now. And how many employees will there be now under 2,000? Give me the numbers!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U158	Thank you, good Peter! Really, I don't want to speculate. I don't have any specific figures. But I agree with you in the sense that the third pillar has not been popular. After all, regulation itself has been changed several times. The system has actually been flexible and favourable and the range of payments is wide, starting with the possibility to withdraw the amount at once for the third pillar and ending with a life-long pension. And the state grants tax incentives for both deposits and disbursements. In fact, a number of changes have been made, which should ultimately stimulate the use of the third pillar. In this sense, the facts on your question were correct: there are few people using the third pillar. But I think the options we're still offering will bring more. How much do I owe you for this answer? I don't want to speculate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U159	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps I will repeat some of the questions that have already been heard in this Chamber, but I would like to touch again on the subject of 'The third pillar and the employer's pension'. We certainly have a growing trend in occupational pensions. At present, an employee can withdraw his pension from the third pillar if he or she so wishes. However, this draft does not allow for such an agreement between the employer and the employee. Should there not, however, be an agreement that this pension can be withdrawn at an earlier age? If you propose this possibility, how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U161	They do, they just give you an extra chance, they don't take it away. In the future, if the employer and the employee do not agree that you can use the money only when you retire, this agreement has not been born and you have the opportunity to use the money. There is no need to make a separate amendment in order to maintain this possibility in the future. This option will remain, but there will be an additional possibility that you will not use the money until you retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U162	Andres Ammas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U163	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I was just thinking about what you said a minute ago that the third pillar, as we all know, is not very popular. I will also give you the opportunity to go beyond this bill for a moment, to look at the big plan, as you often say. What does it say that despite all the measures you mentioned a moment ago, the third pillar has not been as popular as we have all hoped? Is it because you don't trust your country or anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U164	It is strange that, at the end of your question, you also mentioned mistrust of the country. What does this have to do with the context? I didn't understand the end of that question. I think that over time, different products will become more attractive. The state has taken steps to this end, also trying to make both in- and in-payments more favourable. It hasn't all happened at the same time. I think that right now we are also giving employers an additional opportunity. Some employers have said that they do not want to make contributions because an employee may leave work at some point and essentially wish to withdraw money next month or next year. I think this is one example if we again take a step that should increase the attractiveness of this measure in the future. But these are voluntary payments. I believe that, on the basis of these steps, we come to the conclusion that the third pillar is becoming more and more popular.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U165	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U166	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You skilfully slipped over the prognosis I asked for, but for the sake of the verbatim, let us know who the 157 gold employers have, despite everything they've done, made contributions to the third pillar for their employees. Are these foreign ownership companies or state companies? For the sake of the stenogram, please name these gold employers!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U167	For the sake of the stenogram, I'll send you a separate list after as much as the public information allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U168	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I would like to ask for a joint presentation by the Commission of the Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U169	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft law, before the first reading, took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 18 April. The Government of the Republic was represented by the Minister of Finance, Mr Sester. He made an introduction, which, as the last and such statement, sounded that this law, when the bill becomes the law, would deprive a person of no current opportunity, but would provide new, additional opportunities. Before the debate, I had such a moment that I had been familiar with the bill, and I had a desire to have a figurative overview of it. Mr Sõerd joined this request. We asked the Ministry of Finance to draw up a chart, chart or table for the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which would allow a comparison of the current and proposed system. Well, these things have come to us, of course. But I am taking this opportunity to put the Minister to heart: it did not make it any easier to understand, and I cannot imagine how this could happen to a common consumer. In this respect, I would like to say that, probably after the law has been passed, hopefully it will be adopted, the Ministry of Finance will produce some material that gives a beautiful, clear idea of what will change what additional opportunities will arise. This table, which explains the difference, is kind of made on the knee. There is no complaint about the fourth part, which gives examples of pension systems in other parts of the world. Certain components are the same in different systems, but not the same trend. What we find to be insane may seem normal elsewhere. For example, in this debate, a fellow Member has nullified the pension system in the United States, and I don't think I have noticed it. But it happens. Now for the introduction. Colleagues Ammas and Aru spoke about information and greater transparency. Yesterday, at the meeting with Estonian insurance companies, there was a proposal on how to make it more transparent, for example using annual income tax returns, which would give an overview of what has happened and some forecast for the future. But I will say right away that we sent letters from the Commission to all interested organisations and groups asking for their proposals to be submitted by 15 May. This means that there will be enough time left for the Ministry of Finance to examine the proposals and give its opinion, and we will also be able to do so. The debate in the Commission was quite lengthy. My colleague Ligi asked about the issues relating to the payments of the third pillar: what changes will be made to pension funds with employers' contributions, for what reasons they will be made and what situation will be ensured as to whether early withdrawal will be sanctioned. The Minister replied that the regulation on supplementary funded pension contracts concerning the provision of occupational pension schemes would be amended and that life insurance undertakings would be given the opportunity to offer, in addition to the contracts concluded so far, contracts which would not be paid until the policyholder reached the agreed retirement age. This is a subject that was discussed here for quite a while. Mr Holsmer stated that we reduced the administrative fees in 2016 and asked what problem we are solving with this draft, how the choice of the collector has widened. The answer was that this draft does not concern the collection of payments only. Guaranteed interest is low, but if a person wants to risk more, knowing that the interest offered is low, he will have the opportunity to do so in the future. In addition to guaranteed rate pension contracts, assurance undertakings can also start offering investment-risk pension contracts under which the amount of the pension paid depends on the investment made. Mr Holsmer also said that, according to the funds, the third pillar was not working and asked whether there were any incentives for it to work better. The answer was that employers' contributions to the employee's pension fund had a new regulation that precluded early withdrawal. That should help. Mr Tõud asked about the legacies of the second pillar. Money from the second pension pillar is usually inherited. If a fund pension agreement has been concluded, the units will be inherited both in the event of the death of the unit-holder during the accumulation period and during the pension payout period. If a pension contract has been concluded for the period of payment of the second pillar money, the pension assets are generally non-inheritable. I read the answer: the exception is a pension contract with a guarantee period, in which case payments will continue to be made to the beneficiary. 98% of the contracts are like that. There were several questions about the current situation in the first and second pillars. The general answer was that the first and second pillars guarantee a minimum and the third pillar created additional opportunities. The first pillar is decreasing, the second pillar is lifelong, the Treaty cannot be terminated sooner. My colleague Ligi's question was about the situation when you are terminally ill, but you cannot use your money. The money's stuck. He asked if an exception could be envisaged in this case. Answer: The second pillar covers the risk of old age; it cannot be stopped sooner. Mr Novikov asked about the third pillar: why are the contributions made by the employer to the pension fund taken out earlier? The answer was that the money would be taken out if necessary, it would be as an additional salary. Novikov also asked about the second pillar: does the employer pay tax on the contribution, social security and unemployment insurance? Answer: These payments are more favourable to the employer in terms of income tax, while other taxes are the same. My colleague Sõerd asked what would change for the pension collector. People don't know what's going on. Are these new products in the interests of insurance companies? For example, how expensive do these interest-risk products cost? The Ministry of Finance promised to forward a comparative table showing what would change for the pension collector. According to preliminary information, nothing gets more expensive. We hope to get this table before the second-reading debate in the Commission. Mr Ligi referred to the complexity of the system. The third pillar is simple and understandable, and there is no problem: you keep going to work and you keep paying. He suggested that something similar might be considered in the second pillar; the second pillar was too rigid. The answer was that payments from the second pillar cannot be suspended, but can be retired later. The last two questions were put by Mr Holsmer. Firstly, did insurance undertakings coordinate this draft with regard to guaranteed interest rate pension contracts and investment risk pension contracts? Answer: No one opposed the draft, but the interests are different. Both types of contracts will be implemented. I also asked the association of insurance companies about this yesterday. If they have any improvements, they'll be sent to us by 15 May. But in general, their support for the draft is there. The second question, Mr Remolt, was about the experience of other countries, which is about to happen on the market. The Minister of Finance replied that it is not known that there would be other such second pillar systems. Estonia started developing such a pension system the earliest, and so far there are no examples from other countries. But at the moment, the Ministry of Finance has given an example of Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden and England, which shows that each country has its own pension system and, as I have already said, individual details coincide, but in fact everyone is making up their own version. By consensus, the Commission took four decisions: to appoint the chairman of the committee as co-rapporteur, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft law be placed on the agenda for the meeting on 4 May, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for the amendments at 17.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U170	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U171	Honourable Commission waitress. I would like to continue with the subject of information, which was repeatedly asked about in this Chamber. The Minister either did not reply in substance or replied in general that this information would remain as the market participants did. The Committee on Monetary Affairs had a meeting with insurance companies, but there were no investors represented, in this case pensioners. Since I can only ask one question, I would like to put two questions together in my question. You have certainly been familiar with the EMOR survey as the responsible judge of the draft, in which 800 pensioners were interviewed. Many of those interviewed, particularly vulnerable groups, also expect more information from the state. My question is: do you, as the lead judge, or representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have the will to complete this draft so that the information is better organised? And two: are we also meeting with the representatives of investors, in this case the pensioners, between the first and second readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U172	Two questions. I would respond to the first one in such a way that, for me, very much depends on what proposals come from stakeholders. After yesterday's meeting, I have no doubt that the notification they made yesterday will be kept. To be honest, I do not see a major problem as to why this information should not work as a system. After all, there is information and some calculators in the relevant agencies, which enable people to calculate the expected results and risks. So I hope that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we will find a consensual solution. As far as the second question is concerned, it will not be a law that will impose anything on people. It gives them a choice. Current opportunities do not change, and whether or not people take additional opportunities depends on how well we inform them. That is, of course, decided by the Commission, but I personally do not see such a need at first. The second thing is that if, after the first reading, a connection contacts us and proposes to meet, it is clear that we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U173	Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 427 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U174	The next item is the first reading of the Audit Activities Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other Acts Act 409. The initiating waitress is Secretary of Finance Sven Sester. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby give you an overview of Bill No 409 of the Audit Act and related amendments to other Acts. At first reading, there is a draft aimed at changing the organisation of the public oversight system for auditors to transpose the European Union audit directive. Currently, the tasks related to the recognition, registration and supervision of auditors and audit firms are shared between the Ministry of Finance, the Audit Supervision Board and the Board of the Public Audit Board. According to the draft, all competences will mainly be brought together at the level of the Board of Audit Supervisors. The Board of Auditors shall be an independent supervisory body to which the auditors practicing the change may no longer belong. The independence of supervision will thus continue to be ensured, while the speed and efficiency of work will be increased. While until now the Supervisory Board's activities were fully financed from the state budget, the draft provides that the State will cover a maximum of 50% of the supervisory costs. The remaining part will be covered by a supervisory fee which will be part of the membership fee of the Board of Auditors and which will be set annually by the Minister of Finance, on a proposal from the Board of Supervisors, between 0,7 and 2.4% of the total annual turnover of the audit services of the audit firm. In this way, the independence of supervision from the invitation of auditors is also financially ensured. The draft also amends the definition of a public-interest entity by reducing the definition to the minimum permitted by the Directive, namely stock exchange companies, banks and insurance companies. This will save more than 100 large companies and large local authorities, which are now also considered by the current law to be public-interest entities, a considerable amount of costs. They won't have to do them in the future. In particular, the audit report on public-interest entities must be much more detailed in accordance with the practice of the regulation directly applicable to the European Union and must undergo further checks and inspections by another auditor. Further reports should also be drawn up to the audit committee and the supervisory authority. In the light of these changes, the Ministry of Finance did not consider it justified to maintain the status of a public-interest entity to all undertakings for which this Directive does not require it. So let's make it more comfortable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U176	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I like the numbers very much, and I think that the principle that the costs of auditing are covered by at least 50% and, in the future, probably more "market participants" themselves is absolutely right. My question is, how much budget savings does this generate, perhaps, what has been the cost of public oversight of audit activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U178	This year, specifically, EUR 145000 has been included in the budget. So now it's going to decrease by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U179	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that narrowing the definition of a public-interest entity is a positive one. Let me get this straight. But if so, how do you assess that so far there was a relatively broad definition of a public-interest entity and what did it bring with it? What were the positive and negative results?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U181	As I said in the introduction, the public-interest entity is currently defined as 100+ companies. The directive provides an opportunity to calibrate it. We are, of course, acting in the light of the directive and taking over the'minimum package'. Exchange companies, banks, life insurance companies, they must remain on the list according to the logic of the public-interest entity, but many companies no longer need to be there. Many large companies do not need to be in public-interest entity status in the future. It saves quite a lot of money, which seems reasonable. The directive gives this opportunity, and we will take this opportunity. If they want to carry out more detailed, detailed audits, there is always a chance, no one will deny them, but we will not impose that obligation on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U182	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a further question that there is a slightly floating formulation like 'up to 50%' covered by the state budget. Do you also have a timetable to reach 100% coverage by market participants themselves? And who decides to what extent the State will contribute to these costs in 2018, 2019 and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U184	This will be decided in agreement with the Supervisory Board, and it is always the right process to negotiate with market participants themselves. I fully share your view, as expressed in the introduction to your first question, that, ultimately, the market participants themselves could cover this expenditure. I'm totally sharing it. In time, we will come to the fact that the market will cover the costs of its own control, its own licensing, the withdrawal of permits, all these processes itself. I think it's reasonable, and that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U185	No further questions for the initiator. Thank you, Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Commission waitress, Chairman of the Economic Commission Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U186	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Audit Activities Act and other laws in connection with it at its meeting on 17 April. Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Head of Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy Kurmet Ojamaa and lawyer Taivo Põrk were invited to the meeting, who presented an overview of the contents of the draft and answered further questions. By consensus, the Commission took three decisions: to propose a draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 4 May, to propose the completion of the first reading and to set a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 18.05.2017 at 17 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U187	Questions for a Commission waitress? No questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 409 is complete. I will set the deadline of 18 May at 5 p.m. for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U188	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur on behalf of the initiator is Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U189	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is my pleasure to introduce you to the bill that has come before you. This is a draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act. Its content is that the Government of the Republic has developed a plan to implement the road user charges for trucks and for that these necessary legislative changes are on your desk. The drafting of the draft law was preceded by a study commissioned by the State Chancellery in 2015 entitled "Opportunities for the application of transport taxes in Estonia', during which the road transport tax solutions implemented by Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany, Slovakia, Portugal and Ireland were mapped out in ten European countries. The study analysed the different tax solutions used in road transport and proposed the most suitable options for Estonia. As we know, only Estonia and Finland in the European Union are those countries that have not yet imposed road user charges on heavy goods vehicles. The results of this study were presented to the Cabinet in February last year, after which a thought break took some time. At the end of last year, when the new government had taken office, the planned development was put together and the European Commission was also informed about the regulation of road user charges, as was the draft legislation. The Estonian Association of International Car Carriers and the Association of Car Companies and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, among others, were consulted at all stages of the procedure. The framework for road user charges for trucks has been established by the European Parliament and the Council in their directive and will be transposed in the appropriate part according to the draft we are debating today. In order to implement road user charges for trucks, the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act are amended. The following is an overview of the content of the draft. Time-based road user charges for trucks are introduced in Estonia, which means that the payment of a fixed amount gives the person the right to use roads used publicly by a given vehicle for a specified period of time. Road user charges for trucks shall be levied for the use of all public roads. The total length of these roads is approximately 40,000 kilometres in Estonia and includes both state roads and local roads. The road user fee for a truck must start to pay for trucks with a maximum mass of more than 3.5 tonnes, including trucks registered abroad on Estonian roads. The level of the charge depends on the maximum mass of the truck and its trailer, the EURO emission class and the number of axles. For example, if a truck and its trailer have a maximum mass of 3,5 to 12 tonnes, the daily road user charge is EUR 9 and the annual road user charge is EUR 500. If the maximum mass of the truck and its trailer exceeds 12 tonnes, the fee will depend on its EURO emission class and the number of axles. This can be between EUR 10 or EUR 12 per day and between EUR 600 and EUR 1300 per year depending on the exhaust class. We also receive so much that there are not only annual and daily tickets, but also weekly, monthly and quarterly tickets. The vehicles of the Defence Forces, the Defence League, foreign armed forces, the Police and Border Guard Board and rescue agencies, as well as old vehicles within the meaning of § 83 of the Traffic Act, are exempt from the road user charges. The Road Administration and the Tax and Customs Board will be involved in the administration of the road user fee. The Law entrusts the Road Administration with the task of enabling the payment of road user charges 24 hours a day, which is actually an Internet-based solution, but also provides administrative contracts to allow them to be sold at, for example, petrol stations and border crossings. The Public Road Administration is currently working on the creation of various applications. It will be possible to pay the road user fee in addition to the internet at the points of sale, which could be filling stations. Continuous work to improve payment possibilities will continue beyond the application of road user charges. National supervision of the payment of road user fees will be carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board and the Tax and Customs Board in the framework of their other tasks. It's been asked if the police will receive any additional resources. The Police and Border Guard Board, however, is still in control of heavy goods vehicles. For example, checks on crossing the Estonian-Russian border are daily, but trucks are also checked when they perform traffic checks, during the work and rest periods of truck drivers, and when checking compliance with technical requirements. The draft law states that if road user charges have been breached, a financial penalty can be imposed. It is possible to impose a financial penalty on a truck owner who is subject to the payment of a road user fee, as well as on a truck driver who is prohibited from embarking on a journey unless he is convinced that the road user fee has been paid. In order to ensure better access charges for foreign trucks, national supervision is now granted for the first time the right to prohibit a truck driver from driving if the road user fee is not paid. There's no point in coming here to try and see if we can get along without paying. Stopping the journey is clearly more costly for the carrier and the owner of the freight transport than paying this fee. Based on this 2015 survey, we assume that the implementation of road user charges can bring 17 million euros to the state budget annually, about 80% of which is from Estonian trucks and 20% from foreign vehicles. It is also clear from the European Union Directive that the money received from road user charges in the state budget must be earmarked for use in the interests of transport infrastructure. Since the road user fee has been intended to be applied since next year and has also been taken into account in the budget strategy, my humble request to the Riigikogu is that you process it before going on summer leave. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U190	Questions for the initiator. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I am asking more than one thing for clarification, which was also mentioned in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I am somewhat cautious about the provision in the draft law that the right to collect road user charges may be transferred to a private legal entity under an administrative contract. I fully understand if by that you mean a gas station or some other place where this ticket or permit is being sold, but I have the impression that there is another private legal person that is going to be caught between the Tax and Customs Board and a specific gas station. It gives me some concern if this plan is still in force. After all, this means an increase in road user charges, as the cost of collecting it is involved. It is also justified to ask for a reasonable profit for this work. Is that a plan or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U192	Since it is a public road user charge, an administrative contract must indeed be concluded to organise sales at petrol stations. We are not going to create separate national sales points, but to use existing infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U193	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary of the Economy! Let me ask you more generally. We have payments coming through the door and window here. Today's tax is a national road user fee and is by its nature a fee aimed in particular at obtaining funds from the owners of trucks registered abroad to maintain the transport infrastructure in order. It's also in the bill. The introduction of this fee is primarily aimed at the owner of a heavy goods vehicle abroad, but it must also be paid by all Estonian carriers. From the point of view, I ask that we also have excise duties on fuel, now it's going to be a heavy-duty tax. What are the differences between them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U195	Thank you. The heavy duty is a tax imposed in Europe, which Estonia applies at the minimum rate, i.e. the lowest rate that can be applied at all. There's no way to lose it. I also sent the Transport Commissioner, Violeta Bulc, the question of whether double taxation could be involved, but I received a clear answer: heavy duty must exist in each Member State and that is also the case in every Member State of the European Union. All carriers pay it, at the minimum level in Estonia. Road user charges for heavy duty vehicles are also very common in Europe. As I mentioned earlier, only in Estonia and Finland it is currently not. So when Estonian heavy goods vehicles pass through Latvia and Lithuania to Poland, for example, they have to buy this ticket in Latvia, as well as Lithuania and Poland. The differences are, of course, based on mass, for example, in Latvia since 3 tonnes. In addition, if buses could travel free of charge in Estonia and Latvia, the drivers of buses with eight or more seats in Lithuania will have to buy this ticket. This is the European way of applying the principle that the user pays. This is the key to ensuring that all the sums received from the road charge for heavy goods vehicles must go to infrastructure maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U196	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U197	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly said that entrepreneurship must be supported. My question is based on the misleading word 'truck' and a mass of 3500 kilograms. Please tell us exactly what are trucks with a mass between 3500 kg and 12,000 kg, and how many entrepreneurs, including craftsmen, who go to fairs with their own vans, will have to spend in the future to continue their business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U198	Indeed, in developing this draft law, we also addressed the professional associations. My initial proposal was that the road user charge would be more than 12 tonnes for trucks. In addition, I received a letter from the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers saying that, for the purpose of equal treatment and to increase the funding for road maintenance, they also propose to tax all vehicles with a maximum mass of 3,5 to 12 tonnes registered in Estonia, i.e. category N2, because only for the taxation of large heavy goods vehicles over 12 tonnes would the state give a signal that it is more reasonable to purchase smaller trucks which are not taxed. The Association of Car Operators also replied to me by informing me that the application of road user charges from vehicles with a maximum mass of 3,5 tonnes is a condition for their acceptance of this bill. They consider that the imposition of a tax on vehicles with a maximum mass of 12 tonnes would distort competition on the domestic transport market and would be unequally treated. So when we were drafting this law, we consulted carriers and they said that their proposal was that. It is precisely because we do not distort the Estonian transport market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U199	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U200	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You mentioned that there is a tariff for all roads. Would it not have been reasonable to consider introducing a different tariff on the different roads, which would provide an opportunity to reduce the traffic load on the main roads? And the second question: will this revenue go to the common fund of the budget or will it be earmarked for the construction and maintenance of roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U201	As I mentioned, this draft law has not been developed without prior analysis. In 2015, the State Chancellery carried out an analysis. Indeed, there are different forms of remuneration in Europe. There are time-based road user charges, there are kilometres-based, there are mileage-based. The implementation of some systems is simply technologically more complex. We also analysed whether we could only impose road user charges on the main roads. Why didn't we do it? It is precisely because the possible movement of heavy goods vehicles onto secondary roads would worsen the situation of these roads and would not be able to withstand this burden. That was therefore the choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U202	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! How exactly and how much was the impact of the new tax on the Estonian business environment analysed when developing this bill? On the other hand, was it possible to think about alternative ways of imposing this charge, such as route-based taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U204	We also considered that. And a quick answer to the Külliki Hatter, which guarantees that this money will go into infrastructure investments. This is a requirement in the European Union directive that road user charges can only be imposed if this money goes back to improving the same infrastructure. Time-based tariff systems exist in many countries of the European Union. However, it is not impossible for the European Union to try to harmonise road user charges and, in about ten years' time, says that we should change our system. At the moment, however, the time-based system is the easiest to implement and, given that the European Union does not allow us to grant exemptions, so that we can exempt vehicles registered in Estonia from this fee, the time-based system gives us the opportunity to grant concessions to our cars. The daily ticket fee is the maximum rate for the European Union, and the annual ticket is considerably cheaper. This is also one argument why we decided to choose a time-based system. In addition, we also created a block ticket because some machines are running for nine months, not 12 months, and the nine-month ticket costs 9/12 of the annual price. These have been our choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U205	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U206	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I don't think our new, left-wing government has seen any tax ideas that he wouldn't like. We are hearing here that there are only two countries in Europe that do not use this type of tax and that we have a minimum rate. It's all very comforting. This is a new tax that the current government will adopt in Estonia, putting the hand in the pocket of Estonian entrepreneurs. Of course, cars bring goods to Estonian shops, so the people of Estonia actually pay for it. But the fact that we're channeling this money into infrastructure or the construction of roads makes it quite questionable. We already have one tax from which the money should finance road construction and maintenance. It's a fuel excise. Why is another liver invented to allegedly care for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U207	Martin, I am very grateful that you pointed out that next year we will cancel the planned increase in excise duty on diesel fuel last year. I am thinking of the 10% increase in excise duty on diesel fuel that we will cancel next year. As a result, 38 million euros more will be in the hands of those who use and fuel diesel fuel in Estonia. It will not be collected in the state budget. So we've been thinking about it. The tax relief is 38 million, the road user fee should be 17 million back, but a fifth of it comes from foreign carriers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U208	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Let me get this straight. These partners, are they going to sell these permits, are they going to get an extra reward for doing this? Is this money already included in the fee that businesses have to pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U210	They will be able to add an agreed reasonable mark-up. But we expect that, as in Latvia, for example, we will have the main right to use tea on the Internet, where no commission will be charged.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U211	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U212	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is simply exhilarating to hear the sovereign minister of the sovereign government of a sovereign state ask permission from an official of the European Commission. It is very comforting to hear that the directive obliges, the directive allows, the directive prohibits. That, then, is sovereignty in the European Union! It was such a small introduction. But the question I'm asking relates to the collection of the same fee. You're saying it's going to be targeted at roads and infrastructure, and I hate the word 'infrastructure' to improve. Will a separate account be created at the state budget, or how will it be created, in order to distinguish this money from the total amount, and it would be known that it is precisely because of the introduction of the road user fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U213	It's dedicated money. As far as a sovereign state is concerned, I think that in some areas we should learn from European experience. It is strange that Estonia has failed to collect fees that the whole of Europe considers fair and meaningful. If heavy goods vehicles pass through our country from one border crossing point to the port, they may not even refuel in Estonia, but use our infrastructure without leaving a cent in Estonia. Everything that is used elsewhere in Europe is not bad, and better things must be taken over from them. And the fact that heavy goods vehicles passing through Estonia leave at least a daily fee for road use here is extremely fair. As far as infrastructure investments are concerned, they are earmarked in the budget: this money goes to infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U214	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very honourable Minister! I will clarify my first question. I fully accept that this fee will be collected and that these permits will also be issued by petrol stations. My question was whether a private legal entity was planned between the gas stations and the Tax and Customs Board to organise the provision of this service. The second issue in this regard concerns supervision. I do, however, believe that the monitoring side is a little weak right now. Given the amount of the fee, it may not be a great incentive not to pay it, but it is still not enough to limit the so-called single police patrol to checking it. This is not enough and perhaps not modern. It was also said in the Commission that automatic control could be the idea, but unfortunately it cannot be realised in the coming years. The process of preparing the draft has been very rapid. But are you still planning automatic control for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U216	Answer to the first part of the question: we are not going to create a new private institution that will mediate road user charges. The other side: with automatic control, we'll definitely move on. But when this bill was discussed in the government, the Minister of the Interior said it would bring some additional responsibilities to the Police and Border Guard Board, and additional resources were found to implement this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U217	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U218	I would assume that road user charges would be applied more specifically to foreign heavy goods vehicles. But that's it. I have a question about the fact that the bill states here that road user charges will be charged to the owners of more than 3.5 tonnes of cars. At the same time, residents hold a wide range of vehicles used for different purposes, such as car parks, etc. When reading the explanatory note, it turns out that road user charges are objects of category N2 and N3 cars, not all cars over 3.5 tonnes are included. Why is this formula written?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U219	You said, first of all, that you think it could be applied more effectively to heavy goods vehicles abroad. But this is the first step towards effective implementation. So far, we have had this situation that if the driver of a foreign vehicle is truly malicious, he passes through Estonia and receives a fine for something, then there have been difficulties in collecting this fine. That is why we now want to establish a right of suspension. If you're making a mistake, losing time could get a lot more expensive than a day ticket or a week ticket. We have been seriously concerned that drivers from foreign countries would not think that there is such a ticket-free zone, because the Estonian state cannot guarantee payment of the fine. Secondly, we are talking about a truck and its trailer with a maximum mass of more than 3500 kg and a vehicle of category N2 or N3. We had to somehow formulate what vehicles these are, and then we made clear exceptions: Defence cars, rescue cars and old vehicles will not go down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U220	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U221	Thank you! I would like a more specific answer to my question. I wanted to know what kind of cars the 3,5 to 12 tons are so that people could understand better. The second question comes from your answer. You said that an alliance of car drivers does not want unequal competition. I have this substantive question: how can the holder of a vehicle with a maximum mass of 3,5 tonnes indicate competition for the holder of a vehicle with a maximum mass of 12 tonnes? Even if he only drives three times, he's already out of competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U222	Thank you for your question. The associations that sent the letters of reply were the Estonian Association of Car Companies and the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers. The question was how can smaller trucks compete with larger owners. I'll pass on your question to them. The drivers are probably ready to explain to the member of the Riigikogu how this competition will be distorted if the tax applies to some load providers and not to others. Now, what are these machines like? It is generally known that N2 machines have been registered in Estonia in 12855, but nearly 6,000 of them have been suspended. If it is suspended, the road user fee does not need to be paid. The number of N3 categories of machines is almost twice as high, or 24000, and only 3200 of them have been suspended. So the lighter machines are pretty much inoperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U223	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U224	Thank you. Suppose I'm either a small or medium-sized farmer or a forest owner. How does my life really have to go? It is now the spring season, where fertiliser and cereal and potato seed are actively transported to the fields. In autumn, crops will be removed from the fields and firewood will be transported. How do these people's lives change now? What is the effect of the legislative amendment on them, how do they have to organize their lives? And how does the state even inform people that they now have new responsibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U225	When the Riigikogu adopts this law and the law applies, the notification will take place as well as other state fees have been notified. I understand you mean a situation where a small business needs to use a machine only for seasonal work. If you don't use it around the year, you won't buy an annual ticket on January 1. The easiest way to do this is to buy a seasonal ticket, depending on whether he brings his trees out of the woods one day in winter and pays the daily ticket fee or goes for a week, a month or a quarter. The longer the period, the lower the average daily fee. You asked how people could handle it. I think that if we wanted to use rhetoric today, the same question could have sounded when excise increases were voted here two years ago. Then one could have asked how the farmer could buy diesel fuel in the tank of his machinery, with a yearly increase in excise duty of 14%, 10% and 10%. The answer to you, however, is that next year the excise duty on diesel will not increase by 10%, leaving EUR 38 million of planned revenue for the state budget. Instead, the road user fee for heavy goods vehicles will be charged.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U226	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U227	Good manager! Good minister! I think it is the right thing to set a road user fee. But a specific question. Currently, the members of the Riigikogu have no Humvees, but during the previous term there was one on this yard. Its mass is over 3,500 kilograms. Some of my colleagues, however, have other brands of large and vain cars, which should weigh more than 3500. The exception is currently granted for old vehicles, but also for Hummers and other large passenger cars? If not, will the MPs be able to pay road user charges for expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U228	I think that those members of the Riigikogu who use particularly heavy vehicles, which consume a particularly high amount of fuel, pay this tax through the excise duty, because their machine takes a particularly high amount of fuel. At present, road user charges fall under categories N2 and N3 and these more advanced passenger cars do not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U229	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U230	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I will continue with the question of my benchmate, Krista Aru, because half of her question was accidentally left unanswered. What is the impact on entrepreneurship in general? The explanatory memorandum is a bit about the impact on the economy, but only a few aspects have been addressed: they are the additional time spent by the company and the agricultural sector. This does not seem to have a full impact on Estonian entrepreneurship. Have you analysed it in more detail and made calculations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U231	I guess the whole tax base needs to be looked at together. I repeat for the third time that, for these machines, the savings due to the fact that the excise duty on diesel is not raised are more than twice as high as the exit due to the road charge. Of course, it is clear that any additional costs are unwelcome, while somewhere we need to get funds for our infrastructure. The idea of this bill came first of all from the fact that we now have a situation in which our foreign heavy goods vehicles pass through our roads, which, figuratively speaking, leaves nothing here. By making a reverend in front of Mart Helme, I note that the European Union will not allow us to tax only vehicles passing through here. If we impose such a charge, anyone who uses you here will have to pay it. We can't make an exception for our own. As a result, the road user fee is universal, but we refer very clearly to the possibility that if you're here all year round and you buy an annual ticket, your daily cost will be lower. That's the backyard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U232	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U233	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I did not understand the logic of Peter Ernits's answer: those who drive larger machines pay more excise duty. Trucks also pay more excise duty because they spend more fuel. The rumor that diesel excise will not be raised, nor will the devil, because at the same time the new government raised a special, multiple-twin gas excise, which hurts even more people. We are talking about 38 million, which, thanks to the increase in diesel excise duty, would have been transferred to the Estonian state budget. This is also a number written on the ceiling, because we all know that lifting diesel excise is the result of everyone filling in Latvia. And not only do I refuel in Latvia, but also buy all other stuff from Latvia, so we're taking our potential tax revenues to Latvia. So I don't understand that logic. When we talk about 17 million, of which 14 million comes from freight transport in Estonia, this is putting a hand in the pockets of the Estonian people. It is a commodity that is delivered to the Estonian people in shops or in their homes or which is necessary for business. This is the damage to the Estonian economy. Can't you see that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U234	Thank you, Martin Helme! I've also been in opposition, and I know what you're doing. But now, if you take one moment of your story, that horrible hand in the pocket of the people by lifting the gas excise duty. It is always worth looking at the individual behind the percentages. I have a young person I know who has two children. The woman is at home with the children and their apartment uses a gas stove. We looked at his gas bill, and we hijacked what happens after that excise. His bill's going to grow by one cent a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U235	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You describe very nicely how you are going to cancel some excise increases, but at the same time you are well aware that you are collecting this money, for example, by means of car taxes. And you deliberately fail to mention that agriculture actually had a difference, and that was certainly not the case for the use of certain fuels. But here's my question. You are certainly aware that the common agricultural policy in the European Union also means that small businesses are a priority in the development of certain subsidies and activities. Why did you not use the opportunity and the right, as a minister, to apply the distinction to these 3.5 tonnes and slightly larger vehicles and to take into account the fact that this niche is the most affected in small business and rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U237	Dear Urmas Kruuse! I know very well that your introductory paragraph was misleading. You said that I am very well aware that the withdrawal of excise duty increases, which were voted for here two years ago under the leadership of the Reform Party, will be returned by car tax. It's not like that! Or do you have any information that members of the government don't have? As regards supporting farmers, I am pleased to say that Estonian farmers will eventually receive transitional support for more than three years from this year. They say that this is the very long-awaited aid of the Minister for Agriculture last year, the year before and the year before that could not guarantee it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U238	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U239	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, The bill states that this fee does not extend to the vehicles of the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board. My question: does this automatically also apply to voluntary rescue and rescue vehicles, which are legally owned not by the Rescue Board, but by voluntary associations, or NGOs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U240	Now I owe you an answer. I can't tell you if it automatically extends to them. The point has been that rescue machines do not come under this charge. I'll check it out, and if it's not automatically adjusted, it's possible to fix it before the second reading. Anyway, that's been the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U241	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U242	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Of course you know very well what the opposition is doing. The opposition is telling the truth and pointing to bottlenecks. And you know very well what the government is doing: trying to cope with demagoguery around the corner. Here I recall an article by the last Estonian Express, where some ministers had to admit that they did not imagine that the work was so difficult and complicated. But if work is too much, you don't have to do it. You also used one demagoguery when you answered Mart Helme's question concerning tax receipts from foreign companies, or transit through Estonia, and the second part was about the increase in the tax burden on Estonian companies. Please bring these numbers out! What is the estimated amount of tax revenue from Estonian entrepreneurs, i.e. those trucks that do not cross the border, and what is the forecast amount of tax revenue from transit through Estonia? How much is received from foreign companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U243	It is not quite the case that the opposition always has a monopoly on the truth. Just as the government never has a monopoly on truth. As far as the volume of work is concerned, it seems to me that indeed the current government is doing very much longer working days than have been done in the past. But maybe it just seems to me that way, maybe I didn't see the size of this work from the opposition. In retrospect, I must say that in the case of unfinished ministerial work, you have to account for where you have spent your time. Now, if you take the draft explanatory memorandum, you will see that the planned income has been calculated, that 80% of it comes from Estonian trucks. This is due to the fact that we are not sure about this, and many of them buy longer-term road access permits. 20% are trucks passing through Estonia, which mostly use a day ticket. I also regret that there have been proposals to raise the price of a daily ticket. It's recommended to take the maximum of those who pass through here. But there are ceilings here, and we have the price of a day ticket based on a fixed ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U244	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U245	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I must commend you: we are attacking you quite strongly here, but you have maintained a cold nerve. Good for you! My question concerns a slightly different area than transport. The new government has shown great skill in word setting and has called taxes, for example, state fees. Couldn't the transport passing through the country be taxed by passing the European Union directives and by introducing a separate border crossing tax in order not to impose a heavy tax burden on Estonian entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U246	It seems to me that the people of Estonia would not like it very much either. Now let's try to think of a rake in a way how to take advantage. Are you suggesting something like that in Southeast Estonia, where border crossings must definitely pass through a parking lot and pay a fee there? Those who have to do this are not happy with the way they are. It seems to me that we have found the optimal solution for setting the road user fee for heavy goods vehicles: no one who passes through our roads can do this without paying the road user fee, but it is more advantageous for machines that are constantly travelling here if a longer-term ticket is chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U247	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In order to comply with the law, the state has to do something. Initial investment is needed as well as maintenance and administrative costs in the coming years. The explanatory memorandum shows that 2,3 million additional investments are needed. If we consider that the law will enter into force as early as December this year, then the question arises as to whether the Estonian Road Administration, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the Ministry of the Interior have this money in the budget. Last year, when the 2017 budget was approved, this was not foreseen. And how much do you estimate, in addition to investments, the necessary maintenance and administrative costs in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U249	Thank you for your question. The police did indeed ask for additional funds from this year's budget and this was also allocated from the reserve. The Tax and Customs Board and the Road Administration will make all these applications through their existing resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U250	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U251	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will continue with Mr Helme on the issue of finding other instruments to apply this tax or charge to foreign companies, transit through the country, and to save our local transport and other businesses. Your answer was that the people of Estonia do not like rake. I agree that this is never a good thing, but it is still a question of protecting the interests of our businesses, which most other countries do. Therefore, will you give priority to following the directives of the European Union, which, according to you, do not violate Estonia's sovereignty or violate our decision-making power? Is it more important than Estonian entrepreneurs being able to compete with companies from neighbouring countries? Shouldn't getting them up to speed be our main concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U252	Yes, we must be able to compete with neighbouring countries, and that is why we must also collect the tax that others collect. Until then, we've allowed them to ride in a green channel like this without a ticket. Now, the real thing is that the people of Estonia don't like rahepaplus, I didn't say. The Rehepapp has been a very popular book. I was just trying to think along with Mart Helme about what the smart solutions could be, in which case we would charge others and not take ours. I remembered the parking lot in Southeast Estonia. Maybe Mart Helm has some smarter solutions. I'm always open to new ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U253	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You referred here to a comparison with the neighbors. How do we compete with our neighbours, particularly Latvia and Lithuania, with this road user tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U255	Compared to Latvia and Lithuania, our payment rates are higher if we take their taxes in force. At the same time, I had the opportunity last week to meet my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, and a Lithuanian colleague announced that they intend to change the way in which their road user fees were collected, so that this would bring more revenue to the state budget in the future. However, these rates have not been set in stone in any neighbouring country and tend to rise rather than fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-04_U256	It's 1:07. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you Tuesday. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
