ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U1	Hi! We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Heili Tõnisson, please, on behalf of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching eight draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Pensions Act and the Investment Funds Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester in the proceedings of the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law on ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America. Fifthly, the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the National Defence Act (Implementing the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America). In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna. Sixth, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws in connection with it, resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and other laws relating to the implementation of administrative reform. Eighth, the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia. In processing the last three draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U3	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, members of the Reform Party presented a question to Defence Minister Margus Tsahkna about why Estonia has not joined the European Centre against Hybrid Threats established in Helsinki. This inquiry was rejected on the grounds that it did not concern the Minister of Defence, but was the subject of the Prime Minister. Since we already know this and, in the meantime, it has been announced in the press that the Government of the Republic wishes to join this centre, but has not done so, I recall Ronald Reagan here, who once said that democrats are politicians who would like to be Republicans. The Government of the Republic gives the impression that they are politicians who would like to be active in security policy and pursue a strong security policy, but it does not work out. So we are not asking questions, but, on behalf of three opposition groups, we are proposing to the Government of the Republic that Estonia join the centre of competence against hybrid threats in Europe. We want this to happen by June 2nd, including. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U5	There's no more calls. I have adopted nine drafts; we will proceed with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Check-in! 91 members of the Riigikogu are present. Now we need to confirm the agenda for the 12th working week. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U6	Let's start according to the approved agenda. Honourable Riigikogu! The first item on the agenda is the inquiry by Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams, Monika Haukamm, Artur Talvik and Andres Herkel. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! The inquiry concerns the municipality of Alutaguse. On 13 March, Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, responded to the question submitted by the Free Party Group concerning the large municipality of Alutaguse to be formed. Our questions then touched on the meaning of this step. Why is this still being done in conflict with the wishes of the local population, with all development plans and in conflict with the objectives set out in the Administrative Reform Act? Minister Korb's answers didn't satisfy us. On 16 and 17 March, we went there, met with representatives of all the municipalities of the southern region of the rural municipality of Mäetaguse, listened to their views and arguments, and examined the development plans of the major economic area that they had drawn up in two years. We still did not understand why the government proposed the creation of Alutaguse municipality, which has a 60 km from one end to the other, which lacks its own online centre, which does not have a logical centre and to which all local residents oppose. In fact, one of the leaders of Toila's parish has taken a positive view of this; everyone else is opposed. We do not see what the economic viability of this municipality is; rather, we see the risk that it could become a threat to Estonia's security. On 9 and 10 April, all five rural municipalities were surveyed and the results are as follows: 98% of the inhabitants of Illuka, Iisaku, Mäetaguse, Tudulinna and Alajõe rural municipalities are opposed to the formation of Alutaguse major municipality. Only 2% of all the inhabitants of the five municipalities agreed. We have an inquiry, where there are six questions. We expect clear, concrete answers from the Prime Minister as to why such a proposal has been made. Why does the government go directly against the wishes of the local people through the formation of the Alutaguse Grand Authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U8	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, first of all, thank you very much for your questioning! It is clear that you have taken this matter seriously. As the representative of the heirs pointed out, a member of the government has been before you for the second time on this issue. I guess that's the way it's supposed to be. First of all, I'll say a few words for the introduction. On March 13, Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration, responded to an inquiry before the honourable Riigikogu with the same content. This inquiry was dealt with by 313 and was presented by the members of the Free Party, who were not satisfied with the replies of the Minister of Public Administration. They weren't specific enough. However, I must say that the government has made decisions in a collegial way, and so I will try to provide further explanations in response to today's inquiry. Secondly, I assure you that we will debate a great deal and make decisions after a serious analysis. But I will now go to specific questions. First of all, the first question: 'Administrative reform under § 1 (2) of the HRS aims to support the increase in the capacity of local government (KOV) units to provide high-quality public services, to use regional development assumptions, to increase competitiveness and to ensure more consistent regional development. Why does the government not comply with the law and force an illogical settlement system without a centre to form more than 1,700 km2 of municipalities that do not meet the essential objective of HRS? ' The government is guided by the objectives of administrative reform. The main objective of the administrative reform is to support the capacity of local authorities to deliver high-quality public services, to use regional development assumptions, to increase competitiveness and to ensure more coherent regional development. The merger of these municipalities will certainly have a so-called volume effect, and the newly created municipality will be able to plan and carry out development activities on a larger territory. As explained by the Minister of State Administration in March, the Government considers that this merger meets the objectives of the administrative reform. The municipalities of Illuka and Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme and the municipalities of Mäetaguse, Iisaku, Alajõe and Tudulinna are rural municipalities with a similar settlement system, with the possibility to improve various support and development services. Increased capacity of the municipality will certainly help to cope with both daily responsibilities and long-term strategic management tasks. In this sense, the merger of municipalities is expected to have a positive effect. It is possible to plan development activities on a much larger territory, where there is more population, as well as greater financial resources. The second question: "Are the security aspects of this decision considered with exhaustive competence and taken into account with regard to the size of the municipality and the area to be coerced without an appropriate centre? ' First of all, I find that a large local government on the surface certainly does not automatically represent a high security risk. I hope you agree that we do not, after all, ask or consider this question to be likely in the case of some of the other very large emerging municipalities. I bring the municipality of Saaremaa, for example. You could say that the municipality of Alutaguse, which is indeed 1731 square kilometers in size, would be the second largest after Saaremaa. The surface area of Saaremaa should be stated when this municipality is born, then without Muhu and Ruhnu there are 2705 square kilometres. If you refer to the fact that there are more people living in Alutaguse area whose native language is not Estonian, I assure you that the Alutaguse municipality formed at the time of accession is not a security threat for Estonia. These are all our people, dear Estonians. However, each municipality has its own characteristics, which we must take into account. The second part of your question concerned the municipality's centre. If the municipality does not have one strong centre, a network-based municipality with several smaller centres can be formed, where the merger facilitates the construction of a common administrative culture, the specialisation of officials and the establishment of a strategic management level. This also requires, of course, the development of a resourceful local service network, which depends on the municipality's own decisions. The third question: 'What were the principles of the security, integrity, coherence, social capital growth and cultural continuity of the Estonian state that led the government to decide? " The government based its decision on the possibility of forming an able municipality, an able municipality capable of ensuring the region's full development. It is hoped that there will be a strong, financially capable and wider region-wide municipality capable of providing good local services to the population. Question 4: "Why has the local authorities never been consulted in making a decision? Which of the ministers was the author of the proposal of the Great Authority of Alutaguse at the government meeting, and what were the prudent arguments of the Minister's proposal? ' The government in office makes all its decisions on the basis of the arguments discussed and considered by the government as a collective and, of course, by agreeing jointly. I stress that the government is not responsible for the various personalities alone, the government is collectively responsible. If you wish to have an exact answer, the Government adopted by consensus amendments to the administrative-territorial arrangements initiated by the Government of the Republic in the context of the administrative reform at its meeting on 9 February. The performer was Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, and I chaired the meeting as Prime Minister. Question 5: 'The cooperation and economic success of Alutaguse rural municipality (Alajõe, Tudulinna, Iisaku, Mäetaguse and, hopefully, Illuka), which formed the voluntary merger, were carried out by local residents for two years. Several experts were involved. A completed economic and social development plan for the region. It provides for the development of the Peipsi border and the whole region as an attractive leisure and tourism centre, which ensures sustainability and livelihood and takes into account the interests of Estonia as a whole. Why does the government declare this work in vain with its decision, without providing any convincing explanation for Estonia's integrity, locality needs and security, and modern development? " Illuka and the municipality of Mäetaguse, Iisaku, Alajõe, and Tudulinna, which had already joined, formed a municipality that was just above the minimum size criterion. On 1 January 2017, 5040 residents lived there. Statistics Estonia has pointed out that given the expected decline in Estonia's population by 2030, the number of municipalities that do not meet the current minimum criterion will increase by only four by then. In other words, the so-called'strength margin' of the municipalities formed during the administrative reform is quite large in terms of population. A merger that is close to the minimum size criterion would mean that, in a few decades' time, we would be facing the same problem that the administrative-territorial reform started to tackle. It is therefore more appropriate to connect municipalities in order to create larger and stronger municipalities. The three municipalities of Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme also fail to meet the minimum size criterion of the municipality when joining. By combining these eight municipalities, there are more opportunities to provide better services, to exploit regional development benefits and, of course, to increase competitiveness. It is certainly not right to say that the work done so far and the development documents and agreements developed in connection with the merger of Alutaguse rural municipality are in vain and cannot be used. It is also important to ensure the economic and social development of the region when joining as a larger municipality, and the new rural municipality can draw on the analyses and plans that have been carried out when developing development plans. Question 6: 'Why does the government ignore the views of the North Estonian Regional Expert Committee on Administrative Reform? The Committee of Experts explicitly states that the assembly of two different regions (Toila and Alutaguse), excluding the Centre (Jõhvi), is both geographically, economically and functionally unreasonable. If the existing interaction between local wishes and regions is not taken into account, why are expert recommendations not taken into account? " To be precise, the expert opinion was based on two recommendations when these municipalities were merged. First of all, the municipalities of Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme are practically connected to Jõhvi rural municipality during the so-called compulsory integration phase. Secondly, the combination of Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme with the city of Kohtla-Järve, Narva-Jõesuu or Vaivara is not an alternative with regard to the objectives of the administrative reform. Thirdly, it would be useful to combine Illuka municipality with Alutaguse rural municipality, where the municipalities of Alajõe, Iisaku, Mäetaguse and Tudulinna are concentrated. Fourthly, it is not appropriate to join the municipality of Illuka with Jõhvi, as Illuka municipality itself did not wish to negotiate with Jõhvi municipality and precludes this merger. It is also a fact that Jõhvi Municipality Council decided to terminate the accession negotiations with a decision taken on 20 October 2016. The municipality of Jõhvi was not included in the proposals submitted by the government because, unlike other municipalities, Jõhvi municipality is largely urban in nature, and the government decided to propose that Jõhvi municipality continue in its current form. I repeat over one important argument, which Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration, has also raised here. If we look at the economic capacity of the merging local authorities and compare them with Jõhvi, then Kohtla, Toila, Tudulinna and Kohtla-Nõmme will have lower income per capita. Jõhvi has an annual budget of about 12 million, which represents an average of 1700 euros per person. In these holdings, this figure is slightly below EUR 1 500. Therefore, if we connect Jõhvi with these municipalities, it is likely that most of the money would go to Jõhvi's development, because the resources would inevitably be concentrated in the centres. In this case, however, seven small scattered municipalities could be supported. This was also an important argument as to why the government made such a decision. Thank you! I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U10	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Well, that answer to the substantive question was artificial and a little embarrassing for the pulpit. You will use such arguments, which you have used quite the opposite in other aspects of the administrative reform. There is no way we can be satisfied with this answer. Unlike the people who prepared this answer for you, however, some civil servants still have a conscience. A member of the North-Estonian Regional Commission has said that this decision is entirely political and there is no substantive argument to create such a union. In the meantime, however, surveys have been conducted in these southern municipalities: Beyond the Mountain and Isaac. Ninety-eight percent of people are against such accession and the vote is impressive. What do you say to that? Are you drawing any conclusions from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U12	Thank you for that attacking tone, Mr. Herkel. Well, what do I say? You claim that only a few government officials are doing their job with their hearts. I think that, after all, most officials in the public sector are doing their job with full seriousness and heart, whether they work at the level of central government or agencies or ministries or at the level of local governments. You know very well that at the moment, in the implementation of the reform, there is a phase in which the government has made its proposal as of 15 February and, until 15 May, we are waiting for the positions of local communities, local authorities, local people. You ask whether it is good or bad that a very large part of the people have said their position. I think it's very good. After all, it was also the idea of the previous government that administrative reform should be started, based on voluntaryity, by taking the path agreed by the local authorities themselves. And that, of course, is what the current government considered to be right. At the same time, when we were in opposition, we were always critical of the fact that the reform of local government did not have to solve the problem of local government financing. Secondly, we thought that it was necessary to specify specifically what the services provided by the state and local authorities must be in order to improve the quality of life of local people. These tasks must be specifically defined. This is also stated in the Supreme Court ruling. At the moment, I would say that these two important components of the administrative reform have been put in place. In any case, the opinion of the population must be heard, and that is what the government will certainly listen to. We have until May 15th. From there, then, due to the law, the government will have two months to make a final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U13	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U14	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr Herkel must agree that your answers have not been very meaningful. And the saddest of all: you have begun to enjoy this demagogical open. But the question is actually serious, because a particular example is the most illogical unification. All local governments, local people and experts recommended the formation of one municipality along Peipsi and another in the northern region with Jõhvi. And so the materials were discussed and prepared. Unfortunately, we know that this decision was taken in a completely different way and, after the decision, officials were forced to write an explanatory memorandum to the regulation, which is essentially a fabricated document, because it talks about the formation of two different municipalities. Have you seen it yourself, and do you accept that, afterwards, there will be some arguments being sought? And how do you assess the prospect that such a legal text will hold up in court? There's probably going to be a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U15	Unfortunately, you are right about this, and I share that view. As regards whether litigation is to take place at the final stage of administrative reform, there is no reason to hope that there will be none. They are likely to come, and I share your view on this. As I said to the previous questioner, you also referred to Mr Herkel's question, now is the time when local authorities can make their proposals to the Government of the Republic. I think this is a very important phase. You're asking if it's demagoguery or not. It seems a little strange to me because we are talking about a law that you yourself have developed within a certain framework. It states that until 15 May, local authorities can take their decisions and communicate their reasoned opinions on the proposal of the Government of the Republic. After that, the Government of the Republic will make its decision. Don't get ahead of yourself. Once the government has made its proposals, municipalities can legally consider them and make a decision again if they have conducted a survey of residents or listened to experts. The councils will then be able to make a new decision, and that is why they have been given time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U16	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U17	I'll continue with Arto's question. What is demagogy? Demagogy is the reference to who has developed this law. At the moment you became Prime Minister, you said: I will obey the laws that we have, and the one who has worked out what is none of my business, because I am Prime Minister of the Republic. But no one told you to be Prime Minister! Let's move on. Peter Ernits, a friend, knows very well about Vara and Koosa's problem. Early 90% of the people have decided that they want to belong to where they belong historically. At present, they will be joined by Koosa simply because this is the Soviet legacy. Do you intend to continue to preserve the Soviet heritage and not take into account an important municipality such as the village? What rights do we have in Estonia or no longer have at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U18	In answer to your question, I assure you, I will not. We are not going to reinstate the Soviet regime. You asked what rights the village had, and I think it's a very good time to ask, a good questioner. This is very appropriate because we have just started celebrating 'Estonian Republic 100' for almost three years. Estonia's villages have been raised to focus. Every day there is a 'Estonian Republic 100' event in one village, so that the villagers feel that the focus of that day is on their area of residence. It is not the case that we only count cities and large municipalities. We also count the villages. I think the village is very important, the village life must be preserved. There must be enough smoke in our villages. So I gave you a very specific answer. Raising the villages into focus, I support it in any case. Yesterday, for example, I had the opportunity to stay at the Päinurme village community house after my trip. Perhaps you too, Mr Gräzin, were hiking on Estonia's 100th anniversary. The villages really have a great power of mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U19	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In Alutaguse rural municipality, i.e. in five rural municipalities, there has been a public survey. It was April 9th and 10th. This was helped by local operators who made advertising so that people would have to vote. Now I ask the question that was sent to me from the municipality of Isaac. If the people are opposed to this as shown by the results of the poll, will the government go against its own people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U21	That is, of course, a very harsh question. The government can never go against the will of the people, but the government must also look at the whole picture and be based on it. When we're talking about the back of Alu, we all know that, and I also said this in response to an inquiry, that its area is really very large, over 1,700 square kilometers. We also know that the law provides for certain exceptions to the area. For distributed settlements, the area shall in general be at least 900 square kilometres. But if it was a question of whether the government would go against the will of the people, then I say that God would give us that Estonia's future governments will also listen to the people. It must still be based on the Constitution, and the Constitution says that the highest authority in this country is a nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U22	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U23	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! From the beginning, when you started answering questions, you indicated that they are quite similar rural municipalities. That's what we realized. You're not really familiar with local conditions. I'm from that neighborhood, the roots are deep down there. That's why I'm saying it's a very wrong approach. We were developing two natural, geographical and culturally natural regions: Alutaguse and North Coast. In fact, there was only one rural municipality who did not know who to associate with was Illuka. The government could have limited itself to this decision. Why didn't you listen to the local people? Why didn't you listen to the experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U24	Thank you. First of all, it's very sympathetic that your roots are in the area. Well, that's what gives us the basis for a much more emotional view of the question. But I'm sure you know the area very well. I have always confirmed in my answers that when it comes to local governments and administrative reform, we very much want to hear the views of the local people. As Prime Minister, I consider this to be very important. And I am not just saying this here in the Riigikogu Chair to make a good impression on you, honourable members of the Riigikogu. I really think that members of the government need to go on the ground, get acquainted with the situation, meet people. That is what I have done and will continue to do. For example, Sauga in Pärnu County has a major problem with villages. Of course I went there to meet the people. I think that's the way it should be. I'm gonna start repeating myself now, but once again, this time until May 15th has not been just given. It has a very clear objective. This is the time during which municipalities can make their final decision. You're saying we want to cross these regions. I only said one thing: if we are talking about Jõhvi versus Toila, Illuka and Alutaguse, then on one occasion it is an urban area, on the other, a very scattered area. But, of course, as you pointed out in your question, the geographical or natural aspect is also important. In any case, this issue must be considered very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U25	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U26	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! My question goes somewhat on to the previous question, which you rightly said, that we need to talk to the local people. But if you look well, you will see that the fourth question of the heirs consists of two parts. You responded more closely to the second part of how the discussion of the government session took place, but the first question, why hasn't the local authorities been consulted once, remained out of focus. These consultations have not been held to the knowledge of the heirs. If you have other information, please provide them: whether there has been consultation on whether or not there has been a meeting, on the very establishment of this magisterial authority. If so, have you or has your government minister Korb or anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U27	Thank you for that question. I think it's always very important to consult. I have always been guided by the principle that it is not the case in Estonia that the Government of the Republic is somehow the boss of local governments and local governments are subordinate. On the contrary, I am convinced that this is a partnership in which the government often has to give the municipalities the best sense of elbows. I do not currently have a list at hand of the day and at what time either the officials of the Ministry of Finance or Minister Korb have met with the local government leaders to discuss this issue. Surely I would ask Mikhail Korb to give you the most accurate overview that has been consulted, discussed at the time. But if you ask whether this principle is important, then yes, this principle is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Suppose these eight municipalities are coerced. It's February 1, 2018. As of this point, these eight municipalities have decided that on 1 January the administrative reform law will cease to apply and we will go our own way. We are unable to continue under the same roof because of our peculiarities. What is the government's assessment this February 1, 2018, led by Jüri Ratas, why did this happen, not otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U30	Well, what can I tell you? 1 February 2018 should be Thursday. You are asking for our assessment, but to say today, in mid-April, what will be our assessment in more than six months' time is virtually impossible. I wouldn't run in front of things. The municipalities have been given three months to make their final decisions. That's long enough. The deadline is May 15th. After that, discussions, discussions, discussions, and discussions will begin again at government level. As Mr Ammas said, of course many must be consulted. I am sure that the Minister for Public Administration will take this seriously and will consult with those involved within a month or two of the law. But until 1 February 2018, there's a lot of time and a lot of things can happen during that time. On May 15th, then July 15th, the local elections will also be held on October 15th. So you're a little ahead of events, but the honorable Chair of the Riigikogu is no place to deal with predictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U31	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U32	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Of course, it is clear to us that the current government has switched from the administrative reform process to the process of administrative reform. But we all remember how the whole government promised to be flexible and consider the local people. But what is happening in Ida-Virumaa is happening, contrary to what was promised. In Ida-Virumaa, a municipality is sought to form, which is contrary to the principle of local people and voluntary accession, as well as economically, demographicly and geographically illogical. It is clear to all of us that this is done for two reasons. Firstly, the Korb family wants to expand its powers there, and secondly, your party wishes to create as conveniently as possible a large and as rich a government as possible. Here's my question. You're saying the government will decide. However, you have not yet signalled whether you personally support this forceful unit of government. And do you even have a say?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U33	There were a number of arguments that have to be rejected. Let's start with you saying one last name, claiming that they want to increase their influence in the area. There has never been such a discussion, not even a flash of thought on the subject, neither in private conversations nor in discussions on a wider scale. It can't be! Administrative reform is not made for one, two or I do not know about several people or families. Administrative reform cannot be done by the government. You know very well that there are now three good partners in the government: the Social Democrats, the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance and the Centre Party. It cannot be done that only one party says that we will do so, that is our political desire. That way, we would not get anywhere with the administrative reform. On the contrary, it is necessary to act as the government did in Setumaa, to give just one example. There was a debate, they got there, they asked the residents what they wanted. It was requested that the municipality of Setomaa be formed, and the government gave its approval. So I categorically reject your argument. Your second argument was that I personally have seriously criticised this administrative reform. Of course I have. When things are done halfway, you have to criticize them. Let me just give you a few examples. Following the judgment of the Supreme Court in 2010, the negotiations with the state of the Union of Cities and the Association of Rural Municipalities were passed. The restoration of the municipal income base has been mentioned since 2010, but this percentage has not been raised. You're sighing hard. I've been dying all these years, too. It can now be said that the income base for the percentage of personal income tax will be restored to EUR 30 million in one year. Next, the Council of Municipalities has always said that 78 euro cents is not enough for school food, please increase this amount. You know that the current government coalition will increase it to EUR 1. Let me give you another very detailed example. Municipalities said there was a need to increase the funding for swimming training, which is very important. At present, just over a few hundred thousand euros have been earmarked for this. We have decided: there will be one million more. That's four times as much as it is now! So in this sense, you are right that this state of administrative reform, which was when the new government coalition was formed, needed to work very hard. On the one hand, the wishes of the local governments that I read must be fulfilled and, on the other hand, the Supreme Court's ruling must be used to define the specific tasks that the state, central government and local governments do. You asked me what my personal position was. It's like by May 15th, you have to know what the local communities think. And then we have to move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U34	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Well, you're good at sharing promises, but most of these promises are just promises for now. My question, however, is quite different. We know that there are currently 17% Estonians in Ida-Viru County. However, among the rural municipalities, the share of Estonians is around 80%. The local government units with a large population and a small population are now merged with the municipalities in Estonian with a large number of Russian-speaking municipalities. The result is a clear decline in the Estonian language and the Estonian people's right, their right to rule in those municipalities where they have so far decided their own affairs. Do you not think that this is essentially the exorcism of Estonians from Ida-Virumaa and the restoration of the Kohtla-Järve district, the transformation of this region into Russian and the paving of the squaredarm, so that in a crisis situation it would be extremely convenient for the green men to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U36	Dear Mart Helme! Given your life experience and, of course, your status as a member of the Riigikogu, I do not understand where this desire for intimidation comes from. In fact, with such intimidation in Estonian society, we are going nowhere. I really think so, but I can see that this rhetoric, perhaps related to October 15, 2017 or local elections, is gaining more and more weight here in the Riigikogu Hall. And above all, it is demonstrated by the presidents of the two parties: Mr Helme, and here to deny it, also by Hanno Pevkur, the President of the Reform Party. He, too, has frightened the people of Estonia several times with a Russian map. I have had the honour of meeting the voters of the EKRE and Reform Party, and I do not think they wish to be intimidated in this way. There's no point in freaking out that someone's gonna push another language. As long as the Centre Party is in government or even pro-Estonian parties are in government, that is not a question at all. There is only one official language in Estonia, it is Estonian, and it is a point. Now on, you also talked about security. Forgive me, but to say for one of the regions of Estonia that such a percentage is there for our people, and such a percentage is not our people, but it is not that we want Estonian society to be more coherent, that we want to have a stronger and more balanced society, that we have less hatred in our own country. I'll give you my opinion. In my opinion, such questions do not contribute to reducing the gap in any way, on the contrary, the gap is widening when we say that some are better than others. Those people who live on this 45,000 square kilometers are all our people. Sincerely: these are all our people. You also say we make promises, but don't keep them. I told the previous questioner very clearly what we have decided to change in the administrative reform of the municipalities. I can also add that public transport must be more dense and operational. The public transport centres themselves decide what the price is for the user. We have also decided that we will restore this is such a matter of dignity, in my opinion, to the death grant. It goes to the municipalities. These are the concrete steps that the current coalition has decided to take in order to strengthen the municipalities in order to improve the services they provide. I said very clearly in response to the question, and I also repeat to you: I see no security threat in the merger of municipalities in Ida-Virumaa. It doesn't exist! I really do not raise my hand, wanting to say that these or other people are increasing our security threats and they or others are reducing it. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U37	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister! There has been a lot of talk in this hall about Ida-Viru County. My roots are in Tartu County and I am concerned about Tartu County and I ask you this. In Tartu, too, some municipalities have not joined, but some have agreed that they will join. Can this scheme of Ida-Virumaa extend to Tartumaa? Suppose two municipalities have decided to join separately, but no one has decided to join. Is it possible, then, to merge a number of municipalities instead of adding one to one of the larger ones? Can we expect something like this in Tartu County?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U39	Thank you. The government has made its proposals as of 15 February throughout Estonia, including Tartu County. I think that your opinions, whether they concern Elva or Tartu, are very relevant, but the question of the ambassadors of the Free Party specifically concerns Ida-Virumaa and, more specifically, Altagu, Illuka and Toila. If there are any specific questions about Tartumaa, I am sure I am ready to answer them, and Mikhail Korb is ready to answer them. But you know that information about what the government decided before 15 February is public and now we are waiting for the opinions of the local governments. I have also visited Tartu County and listened to the views of Luunja municipality, for example, whether it is right to join the city of Tartu or not. There too, the people were in front of the parish house expressing their views. I have also listened to the views of some of your party fellow politicians, what they think about the possible expansion of the city of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U40	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! During your presentation, you touched on the Setomaa problem. I have good advice for you: do not praise the Setomaa solution so much! We know very well how the public survey was conducted there. I was informed by an employee of Meremäe Municipality that more than 40 people were admitted to Meremägi within three or four days prior to the survey. This is a very large number for a small rural municipality. It was a very ugly behaviour by Setomaa's parish elders and governments that tried to influence the opinion of the people. But here's the question. You said that as of February 15, everything was basically in place. How's it going to work out in Setomaa? There's still a really good picture right now, and it's crazy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U42	Thank you. Well, that's too bad if you get it that way. That's not how I understood it. I have always said that political culture in Estonia must improve. I really don't want to go through with this right now as my great service or as the great service of today's government. Jüri Adams, a member of the Free Party, was one of the first to take me from my sleeve and said that this Setomaa issue should be resolved somehow. I don't know if he's happy about the solution now or not. But in general, it seems to me that he doesn't really share this view that what happened in Setomaa is a very bad thing. On the contrary! In the four municipalities of Meremäe, Mikitamäe, Värskas and Misso we really asked for the opinion of the people. Let's be honest, a very large part, most of the people wanted Setomaa. But they didn't lock anything on February 15th. On 15 February, the government's proposals were decided. There's nothing locked yet. What's going on in Setomaa? I very much hope that the municipality of Setomaa will be born. It has also been decided by the government that they will maintain their culture, their cultural diversity and can best promote it in Setomaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U43	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U44	Thank you. I listened to the explanation of Setomaa municipality. Would you be more specific about the value of such an administrative division in maintaining local culture? Would a different parishioner prevent culture from being maintained? And what else could be the argument in favour of the municipality of Setomaa other than that others would not hold their culture in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U45	I agree that if Setomaa had not developed, Seto's culture would still have been preserved. The question is whether, due to the emergence of the Setomaa rural municipality, it is more intensive to maintain and develop local culture. You asked what the main argument was. The main argument was the result of a public survey there. People say we want the Setomaa estate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U46	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U47	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! No government has the right to play with its country and its people. Those words were spoken in this honorable hall in 1928. I very much hope that this government, too, will not play with its country and its people during the administrative reform. The municipality of Alutaguse, which had already existed as a working rural municipality with the agreement of the five rural municipalities, suddenly learned of the government's decision that such a formation is not suitable; it is not good enough, it is necessary to make a large municipality of Alutaguse where these five rural municipalities would be joined by Toila, Kohtla-Nõmme and Kohtla on the other side of Jõhvi. At the same time, it was the municipality of Toila, where Toila, Kohtla, Kohtla-Nõmme had been included, after meeting with Jõhvi. After all, this would have been the basis of a very strong self-government. The city would have been the centre and back place of Toila by the sea and very busy Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme and on the other hand the southern region with a small Alutaguse municipality. For two years, people had been thinking about how to reduce the inevitable economic deficit in the Alajõe region, which is small and where income is low. As a country, we have not actually been able to use the natural and cultural resources that the Peipsi region has. The government's decision that the two parties will be put together, with Jõhvi, which is a busy and growing city with very diverse potential, in the middle of it, creates a misunderstanding. The government really should have taken into account the opinion of the local population. They had found solutions, the last development programme had been drawn up with a view 20 years in advance and thought out how to manage themselves under the existing budget. But it's gonna end. It doesn't make any sense! Unfortunately, we have only heard demagogic arguments from the Prime Minister here, the main point of which was that the government has decided so. Excuse me, where are the tests? Where are the impact analyses on which the government decided this? I come from the Beyond of the Mountain and I know Alutaguse forest roads very well. The two sides, 60 kilometers from one end to the other, have never moved in one direction of development. This is normal because Toila's own ports, its tourist industry, its own sanitarium, have a completely different potential than the southern region of Alutaguse. On 9 and 10 April, a survey of the local population was carried out in five rural areas, and it is significant how local entrepreneurs felt about this. It was their home, their future, their lives. The participation activity of residents was significant, more than half, in Illuka, Iisaku, Tudulinna and Alajõe. It was a high percentage, a lot of people answered the poll. And the answer, as I have said here twice today, was this: 98% of the people are in favour of being in Alutaguse municipality. Illuka, who sometimes hesitated about what to do, also goes with Alutaguse. I very much hope that the Prime Minister's promise to listen to people's opinions must be heard. But I'm sorry he couldn't find the time to listen to that prayer in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U48	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U49	Dear Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Inquiries are very enlightening and useful things, and thank you always for your answers. But, unfortunately, they are a little alike in the sense that we often get answers that are relatively irrelevant to our questions. For example, in response to my question on security in Ida-Virumaa, I learned that the Centre Party and the current government intend to restore funeral support. A very commendable idea, very supportive, but if you overlook the demographic situation and geographical location of Ida-Viru County and justify your position by restoring funeral support, there will be a certain mismatch. I wanted to take the floor to draw attention to that. Ida-Virumaa is the most beautiful county in Estonia, according to my opinion. Indeed: Lake Peipsi, Alutaguse, North Coast, Narva River shores, Narva-Jõesuu, easy! At the same time, we know that on the other side of the Narva River there is a neighbor with whom our relationship is difficult. And, unfortunately, we cannot commend the Prime Minister for somehow improving these relations by his visit to St. Petersburg. Absolutely not! I'd say there was a zero state: nothing got better, nothing got worse. The thing is, it didn't get any worse. From this point of view, it is not possible to treat Ida-Virumaa in the same way as we treat either Pärnumaa or Läänemaa or Saaremaa. It's just not possible! 82% of the population there are non-Estonians, they are very clearly in the Russian information room and they vote in the Russian elections, being Russian citizens. In cities that are Russian-speaking, such as certain districts of Sillamäe, Narva and Kohtla-Järve, 80 to 90% of the population chooses Russia's leading politicians, such as Vladimir Putin and others, who have shown no friendliness towards Estonia. Those are danger signs! The Prime Minister said that these are our people and we cannot ignore their belonging to our judicial area and our country. Nobody's gonna ignore it! But at the same time, we must not forget that we are about to have ten years of bronze night. I remember very well the time before bronze night when we have the whole mainstream media clock about the fact that integration is great, that everyone is loyal to us, these are our people, and so on. But it turned out that not everyone was loyal. And as I read in the media a few days ago, we have given them 107000 euros for destroying the city of Tallinn. We have not dared to prosecute them. That's the country with such a hard backbone is the country of Estonia! He has not dared to prosecute these people and make them pay for their losses. And in this situation, I say, without wanting to attack you, Prime Minister, sharply or criticize: please take seriously the security issues, demographic and geographical issues relating to Ida-Viru County. Thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U50	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U51	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I have a great request that you consider this decision very carefully what its consequences will be for Ida-Viru County, what its consequences will be for the people of Estonia, of which 98% will be opposed to the solution proposed by the government, and what its consequences will be for your personal credibility. If you have noticed, the Free Party has raised quite a few questions about the miscarriage of administrative reform. We have had more than ten enquiries on this subject, which have touched on name issues and illogical mergers. Today's issue we raised for the second time because we were not satisfied with the answers that Mikhail Korb gave us. Unfortunately, we are not satisfied with the answers we received today. To be honest, I have not noticed such a clear contrast to what the government has proposed elsewhere. When we were with Krista Aruga after Mikhail Korb had been to answer questions about this for the first time, one meeting behind the Mountain, the people's attitude was obvious. Members of the councils of the municipalities of Alutaguse, members of the municipalities and other local residents were present. They had followed very closely the discussion held in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Believe me, they are also watching us today, and they want to find out whether the votes they have just given against this accession scheme will have any effect on the Prime Minister or not at all. Speaking of the doubts that are currently in the air, I mean the inhabitants of Ida-Virumaa, Mr Korb, your family will be reached with your will to restore the Kohtla-Järve district. And it's taken very painfully. I do not know whether we have to say that this is, in a sense, a russification programme, but the Centre Party, as a power party, has been the source of endemic corruption in various places in Estonia. With the perspective that, if so much has been added together, Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve will also be placed on it, the name of Ossipenko will be repeated. There is a great fear of this bad cultural influence, this very corrupt management practice, which may begin to extend to the municipalities of Alutaguse, Tudulinn, Isaacun, Beyond the Mountain and others who clearly said no to such a connection scheme. This is not intimidation, these people perceive it as a security risk. This is where the confrontation that you yourself have created will work. However, there is indeed no logistical argument in favour of a merger that extends to such a large territory. It is simply not appropriate to merge these areas into one municipality, as the government is proposing today. By the way, a separate question has been asked about your party's coalition partner, IRL, how could the IRL agree to such a decision in the government? Finally, I refer to all the psychological aspects that relate to the fact that, although Illuka disagreed, these municipalities, both north and south, had accepted their accession regions. They had negotiated, the decision was essentially made. Now you come and flush it! It's a very, very bad decision if the Government of the Republic stays with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U52	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U53	This discussion that has taken place in this Chamber today gives me the opportunity to say that I have grown two centimetres longer than you think. If you think that I, a modest person, can influence the decisions and actions of our government in everyday life, then you are wrong. I really want things to progress in Ida-Virumaa. I was born there. I've already said once that my birth certificate says Ahtme city, Jõhvi district. 1952. Until then, such a government existed. The biggest concern is that this administrative reform related to Kohtla-Järve ended in 1992 when Jõhvi gained independence. Now all these things have been waiting 25 years to be resolved. From this remote control, I have also said that I supported it when Tarmo Nature spoke of attraction centers, with two hands. I was for life to go the way Tarmo said it would go from this remote. He came there to tell us about it. But unfortunately, other decisions, other rules were taken, and now I don't know how to get out of what you're talking about. That is a very difficult question. There's another question for me, too. We are talking about integration, but we are also talking about the fact that the administrative reform is already going to the national issue of Estonians and others. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to raise that question. But when we had Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme parishes, it was said that we must preserve this culture, preserve everything that relates to everyday life in these municipalities. But when the parish governments and councils came together, they said that we wanted to unite in the north into one big parish. The population would have been 4,700. But the rules are different, and there was a suggestion that we put on Kohtla-Järve, take Kukruse too. There's 520 people working there, and we're about 5,200 full. Believe me, it's not just your concern, it's our concern! This is my hometown, my neighborhood, where I was born and lived and lived, even though many drive away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U54	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Prime Minister! I just wanted to say, in a remarked manner, that the questioning of those who are in this Chamber, the elected representatives of the people, should not be taken lightly, so that such an emotional pingpong is created. I dare say that every question that has sounded in this Chamber is either a concern, a pain or an urge, and that is why I, the Honorable Prime Minister, have a request to you. The least you can do in this Chamber is listen to the speeches of the inquisitors. That's why I was a little sad when Krista Aru was on the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U56	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. But the Prime Minister has the right to speak. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U57	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! A few more things I really want to say. I agree with Mr. Kruus. I am absolutely convinced that the questions that are being asked in this Chamber come from the heart and out of concern for Estonia and its people. Yes, indeed, I was away from the hall for a few minutes when I answered the question, but I came right back and listened to the end of Krista Aru's speech. I can also listen to this thanks to the fact that the website of the Riigikogu has information technology opportunities, and there is also a verbatim. Now what Andres Herkel said. Two things. First of all, the first thing I very much agree with. In my opinion, the Free Party has done the right thing when it has made so many enquiries and will certainly do so in the future. The issue of local government and administrative reform is important and I assure you, without any irony, that this tactic is very correct. That's how you work, things get a lot clearer in some places. And this is also thanks to you, because you are actively meeting the residents of Estonia. But there is another thing you said, Mr Herkel. And I absolutely disagree with that. I'm sorry to say that as a member of the government! But if any of the 101 MEPs, be they from the EKRE, the Reform Party or the Free Party, accuses anyone who doesn't deserve it in any way, I will come here and say it. When you said that Valeri Korb or the family Korb is creating some kind of self-government, it's completely wrong, it doesn't correspond to a gram of reality. It's like putting a sign on it. I've never heard such a point before, and I'm definitely against putting on labels like this. They're trying to scare the word 'division', but the current government doesn't make any divisions. We're not restoring any districts! The time when Estonia was to be under occupation was very difficult for our country and our people. So there's no wish at all to restore any of this. But the fact that the members of the Free Party Group are raising issues of administrative reform is, in my opinion, very right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U58	Andres Herkel has the right to object under the Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am left to advise the Prime Minister to read a verbatim report. I didn't claim anything of my own wisdom, I mediated how this process was understood in Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U60	I will now stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U61	We will go to the next question by Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm and Artur Talvik. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U62	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! According to § 4 (2) of the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank advises the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues and the Government of the Republic does not make important economic policy decisions without listening to the position of Eesti Pank. We are used to listening to the Governor of Eesti Pank once a year in this hall. These have mostly been such peace, security and stability-inspiring meetings, as the President of the Bank believes that things have been well in our monetary policy in a large way. In May last year, when Ardo Hansson stood before us, he said something about the fact that the Estonian government has acted commendably and correctly in keeping the budget balanced, because now is not the time for the economy to start spending much more. He said that Estonia could spend and borrow more if every economic indicator indicated that there was a recession in the economy. But there have been no such references; economic indicators are quite contradictory. It was also said at the time that our country's situation would certainly become more difficult in the future. I'm sure it's perfectly clear to the people in this room. If we become richer ourselves, euro subsidies will decrease. At the same time, our demographic situation is getting worse. We inevitably need to spend more on pensions and health care. There are still fewer and fewer paying workers and, as a result, neither in the short term nor in the long term is it appropriate to start spending much more money. Now the government has changed, it is time for a new policy. One new idea is to put a deficit in the state budget. Understandably, the Governor of Eesti Pank has responded to this decision and, in the opinion of the inquisitors, has said exceptionally well that such behaviour is selfish. The situation is being exploited for its own good, regardless of its wider interests. It is unclear to the heirs whether the current government has listened to the advice of Eesti Pank and the Budget Council. We wonder if the government has asked you for advice, and if so, what advice have you given? And if you have not been asked for your opinion, the questioners will now give you the opportunity to give good advice to the government in this very hall. I also assure you that we, as heirs, are happy and grateful that you thought it possible to respond so quickly to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U63	Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U64	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you very much for the five questions I am trying to answer. I'll read the question first and then I'll answer it. The first question reads as follows: 'Have you asked Eesti Pank about the preparation of the basic law on the state budget and the plan contained in it to allow the deficit in the state budget, and what answers have you given? ' I would say that the mandate of Eesti Pank and the interest in expressing an opinion on the state budget is derived from the same paragraph of Article 4 (2) of the Eesti Pank Act, according to which Eesti Pank advises the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues and the Government of the Republic does not make important economic policy decisions without listening to the position of Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank has expressed its opinion when new information on the government's plans concerning the balance of the state budget has become available. It started at the coalition negotiations, where I asked for an audience, and I was accepted. We shared some ideas, but those thoughts were very general at the time. Experts from Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance have exchanged views after more detailed budgetary principles of the coalition agreement were clarified. During the preparation of the state budget, we met with the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and through the press we have presented our views to both the government and the Estonian public. I think the most recent statement was on Friday Äripäev, where our Vice-President Ülo Kaasik wrote a story that is also on the website of Eesti Pank. In my opinion, this sums up our views on these issues in a very compact manner. In conclusion, I would say that there has been a dialogue on the balance of the state budget on the initiative of the central bank, and the government has listened to us politely. The same applies to previous governments. Secondly, 'Sometimes the budget deficit is seen as a possible stimulus for economic recovery. Do the macroeconomic indicators of the current economic cycle confirm the effectiveness of the possible implementation of this measure or, on the contrary, warn us of the negative consequences? ' I start with the fact that the government is a very important player in the economy, more than a third of the economy, and through this it is able to increase or reduce demand. The question is how much and when to do it. I think that the aim is to support economic stabilisation through this structural indicator. We are not aiming for a nominal budget balance, but for a structural one. If the economy is going badly, the income side will, of course, be lower, and more needs to be spent, for example, on social assistance and unemployment insurance. At such a time, the budget automatically goes into deficit. On the contrary, if the economy is doing well, the revenue will be well received, the expenditure may be a little less and the budget will be in surplus. Under normal circumstances, I'd say automatic stabilisers are enough. In our view, the current economic situation does not justify an additional demand from the government. We think it would rather cause long-term damage. First of all, this is not an emergency situation. We are not in a deep recession; our economic performance is quite close to balance. If we look at the labour market, we will rather see indicators of overheating. In recent years, Estonia's average wage has increased by 6 to 7% per year, perhaps even more. At the same time, the average wage growth in the euro area is around 1.6%, and this figure has been around 1% for quite a long time. So our wages will increase much faster than our competitors even without this additional incentive. In such a situation, if there were to be further incentives, perhaps wages would grow even faster for a short period of time. From an employee's point of view, this is, of course, very good, the higher the wage increase, the better. But companies have to resist this pressure, and if wage growth is too rapid, if costs are increasing and profits are not increasing, the profitability of companies will suffer. Sooner or later, they start to invest less, some close their store and move away. In summary, I think this is going to stifle our long-term economic growth. The economy must develop in a balanced way. At the moment, we see that the economy is operating more or less at full load. A few months ago, before the fourth quarter figures were published, we might have thought that the economy was somehow controversial, the wages were growing, the economy was not growing, but now it seems that economic growth has recovered. To say that the economy is far below its potential, I do not think it is possible at this point. We also believe that it does not seem justified to compensate for the surpluses of the state budget in recent years in the coming years. In part, these surpluses came from unexpected revenues, such as some large banks paid very large dividends. It did not have a negative impact on the Estonian economy; it did not have an impact on the increase in the tax burden; it was a one-off factor. On the expenditure side, we saw that the use of euro money had temporarily slowed down, because it was overtaken from one European budget cycle to another. In this transition phase, euro money did not move so quickly, but now we expect its use to start accelerating and without any additional stimulus it will further stimulate the economy. The structure of economic growth has also been very conducive to revenue collection, as the two largest tax bases ♪ have both increased very rapidly. Consumption is growing, wages are rising. So, in fact, from the point of view of the Minister of Finance, it is lighter times, not harder times. We can imagine a situation where the economy is growing at about the same rate, but based, for example, on exports and investments. The revenue bases associated with them are much smaller and do not generate as much money as in recent years. The third question: 'How do you assess the concept of "temporary deficit" and the possibility of a situation where previous governments have maintained budgetary balance, the government in office creates the opportunity to create a deficit, and some of the next governments need to smooth out the consequences? ' This is where I'd start with the positive side. It is to be welcomed that the principle of budgetary balance as a whole has not been abandoned and that the budgetary balance as a long-term objective is, however, currently stated. It's good in itself. Secondly, we understand the desire to add some flexibility to this system. I stress that we understand that. This is not our preferred option, but we do understand the will to add a little more flexibility. A little more! But now we see the problem that this particular proposal contains the right amount of flexibility in a way that I would call opportunistic. I'll explain what I mean by that. Let's look at our basic laws! This is not a constitution that we have deliberately made very difficult to change, but the basic laws should also provide some certainty for the long-term future. They too should to some extent bind our hands when a short - term goal tempts us to spend more than is useful in the long run. It is bad when such laws are changed, either very often or in a way that seems to be very favourable to the government, no matter who it happens to be. If such a change is made and then, in a few years' time, a new government will come to adjust in a different way in its own interests, and when a couple of such moves have been made, the whole foundation will eventually begin to disintegrate. The entire legal framework will become a Potjomkin village, which can be changed very quickly if there is a need or a desire. So as far as the government plan is concerned, it could be done differently. One option is to apply the structural surpluses that have arisen since the legal amendment came into force and not to use them afterwards. The second option would be to make maximum use of the surplus of the previous year, which could be added to the next year. I know the Minister of Finance has used the example of buying a refrigerator. You're going to the store in December, but there's no fridge. In January, the fridge comes to the store, can't I buy it? Such a solution may indeed be possible. Short-term planning errors within one or two months, or even within one year, could somehow be allowed, but the fact that we look at several years ago is quite another matter. With the aim of debugging the economic cycle, the structural deficit should only occur during low-conjuncture periods and the surplus during high-conjuncture periods. Fourth: 'What economic policy risks does the government's new approach to budgetary balance include, and are there examples of its implementation in other countries? ' I would say that a small deficit is quite common in Europe, but 0.5% of the structural deficit has been considered a minimum objective to cope with a situation where, for example, the low is very high. With this minus 0.5, you're somehow going to achieve a nominal deficit of 3%. I think that a small deficit in Estonia would create problems in terms of long-term economic growth, but would not cause problems in the near future in terms of fiscal sustainability, because we have a low level of public debt. Estonia is fit for a slightly stricter fiscal policy and larger reserves than Europe. As has already been mentioned, we have an ageing society, we have less euro money in the future than we do now, and therefore we need to take a more rigorous approach. In fact, it could be said that, due to the use of EU funds, these amounts have accounted for around 2.4% of GDP over the last five years, we are essentially in a proper deficit. Since these are subsidies, we do not take them into account. This money does not generate debt, but it stimulates and affects the welfare of our economy, and we are somewhat accustomed to spending these sums. We know that budgeting will become more difficult in the future, the European Union's aid money will decrease and the population will grow old. There are a number of warning examples in Europe where the minimum budgetary requirements will become a normal behaviour over time, creating economic difficulties. So we are at risk of slippery paths, and this risk is greater than the fact that this 0.5% minus is going to affect very much in the near future. Finally, 'What measures and when do you think the Government of the Republic should take in a situation where the share of European Union funds in the state budget is starting to decrease from year to year? ' As noted, in short, we should collect buffers in such a situation. The government is aware of the reduction in EU aid, and the reduction in these amounts will sooner or later give a negative impetus. We had the same experience as the transition from one budget cycle to another. We've already felt it. Paradoxically, we see that the next reduction in aid can take place in about 2021, which would be the time when the next government would have to move back from there to a balance of minus 0.5%. So by 2021, together with these two factors, we could already forecast a new negative momentum for the economy. I'd finish with that, and I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U65	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! The International Monetary Fund has said that Estonia's strong fiscal position should be used to implement reforms that support productivity growth in the economy. Do you think that the activities that the Government of the Republic is planning to close the budget deficit will increase productivity in the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U67	Thank you for your question. I will honestly say that we do not comment very much on the technical details. You can ask us for advice, but when it comes to individual specific investments, we usually say that we do not have the competence to analyse them and to say whether spending money for this purpose is better than for any other purpose. So I owe the answer not only because we have not analysed it directly, but also because Eesti Pank has no competence to make detailed assessments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, we thank you for your answers. You said that there are still lighter times, which is why taking measures such as the Government of the Republic has come up may not be appropriate. You also pointed out that, due to the pressure on wage growth, the labour market has become overheated. Have you brought this to the attention of the government before when the public sector led to wage growth? If we have lighter times and they're probably not very easy, but still, there is a known risk of overspending. Before the recession, it was very clearly there in Estonia. Does Eesti Pank have any calls not to spend too much on both the public sector and private consumers to avoid overheating?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U70	I think we have already said this, even in the articles that are on our website. I think the message to the previous government was quite similar. Although these figures were slightly more controversial at the time. The labour market showed that the economy was overheating, but the growth figures were somehow very negative. In fact, in our opinion, slow economic growth came from very specific factors relating to individual sectors or individual areas. Apart from these, the labour-intensive part of the economy was already in relatively good shape. So we'd rather look at the pressure of pay and suggest we be a little more careful. We warned you in advance a year ago. Now I believe that the economy has started to grow, and this is probably due in particular to an improvement in the external environment. For a long time, the Russian economy was in a recession; the Finnish economy was not in a very good position. At least Russia's economic growth is now more or less stabilised, somewhere close to zero, which is a positive indicator in itself. On the other hand, the Finnish economy has also gotten on its feet and it is already felt that our economy, too, can grow a little faster. We've talked about this before, and we've talked more about it before, a little less now. But the other institutions are trying to assess this cyclical position, apart from Eesti Pank, the Board of Budgets, which is supposed to publish its position this week, is the Ministry of Finance, the International Monetary Fund, is the European Commission. It's not an exact science. Some have said before that we're in plus, others say we're in minus. As Eesti Pank, we have said that we are close to balance. It is now interesting to see what these other institutions will say about our current position. The figures for the fourth quarter must have been very positive. These are, of course, preliminary figures, and we certainly do not think that we can keep this pace. One-off factors played a role, such as stockpiling excise goods, knowing that excise duty was rising, producing certain goods well, etc. But in general, the argument is that the economy is growing too slowly, in our opinion, lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U71	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I want to continue with the question of Anne Sulling. He specifically asked about productive investments. There was also a question to you about the practice of other countries in implementing fiscal policies. If we look at the government's plans for the coming years and this also emerges from the new forecast that the real growth in government investment is the same as in previous years. There is no major upheaval, and there is not much to see in terms of productive investment. If you go into these figures, it would appear that reserves, and possibly new loans, cover current costs. Is that what you think it is? And what does that look like from the point of view of budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U73	I think it is actually very difficult to distinguish what is current expenditure and what is an investment. Often there is a great deal of expenditure on education, for example, in current expenditure, etc. So I don't want to say that some are clearly better than others. Finally, money is money. Let us say that our public investment as a whole has been on average around 5% of gross domestic product over the last ten years, which is actually a relatively high figure. Quietly it fell for a few years, and now it has started to recover to about the same level as it was before. But we still have to spend a lot, create a deficit before we can say that we finance running costs. I don't think that's the main argument right now. The main argument is that our economy is already close to exploiting real potential, and the government plays a major role in that it can influence the economic performance. In fact, by spending more now, he would rather take the economy out of balance. We have the experience of boom and depression. I don't think anyone wants to repeat them, and I don't think they're ever gonna be so impressed again. We're hoping there won't be such an obvious boom and a bump. But I would certainly like the whole principle of the budgetary framework to be maintained, so that, to some extent, we smooth things out in such a way that we have in mind the objective of structural balance. Then the economy gets more stimulated in bad times and less in good times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U74	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U75	Thank you. Mr. Hansson! Politeness is always admirable, but in an obscene environment, it can be counterproductive. The political environment is disgusting now. If you here and Ülo Kaasik in any way praise the government, he mentioned the balance of the budget somehow, then in the political environment, this praise will be written down. If you say that structural balance is still possible, it will be written down and abused. But saying A, you should try to formulate B in some way, despite your great distance from fiscal policy to be objective. Have you heard of any structural reforms or really investments in support of long-term productivity that would justify structural deficits and changes to the basic law, in essence, the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U76	Thank you for your question. I know that there are always five different species that are being financed for this money. We have not examined how the city hall and other investments, for example, are justified. We are not evaluating this issue. At the same time, this is a very legitimate question, which has also been asked by the IMF. It is not right to invest simply because of the investment; we can also invest our money very badly. In particular, there is a need to target activities that increase productivity. But in general, we do not comment on the feasibility of specific investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U77	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U78	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! You must be the Governor of Eesti Pank for the fifth year now. But I'm interested in your position as a professional a little bit earlier. Would the Estonian government have had to make some powerful additional investments, boost the construction sector or do something like that in the aftermath of the recession and post-disaster years? At the moment, some analysts have indicated that it would have been just the right time. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U79	Thank you for your question. I didn't operate in the public sector at the time, and I can't say for sure. But I remember that it was not possible to obtain any loan at the time, even though Estonia's debt figures were very low. Maybe it would have been possible to borrow for some crazy interest, but it was actually broke. In my opinion, at the time, it was not at all possible to choose whether or not we would start to stimulate strongly. Of course, ex post experiments like this can be conducted. One option might have been to switch to the IMF programme. They would have set us a certain objective and to meet it we would have gotten a little more money and a little less restrictive conditions. But I don't think living under such a command is the most pleasant. The fact that Estonia was actually able to survive this whole period independently in economic policy is certainly positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U80	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U81	Mr President, I'll continue what Andres Herkel started. One of your sentences came to my attention at the sixth minute: 'The current government listens to the central bank as well as the previous ones. ' And at the same time, I hear that it's like it's getting warm and we're stimulating and it's getting hot. But then you said that there is a budgetary balance in general. Jürgen also referred to this. Is it now or isn't it? Is the government listening to the central bank or not listening? I will formulate the question very precisely. Because of your duties, you are in contact with the Minister of Finance. If you look him in the eye, do you have the impression that he understands what he's doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U82	Thank you for your question. It's not my job to look someone in the eye and tell if he understands or doesn't understand anything. I think it's up to us to give advice at a technical level. We are trying to speak on issues that are important for the sustainability of the economy. Therefore, we have not deliberately wanted to give an answer to some of the earlier questions, because they have been very direct political issues in which we do not want to get involved. The new government has not been in office for long and their experience is not great. I think we're being politely welcomed and heard right now. And having listened to our advice, it is up to the government to make decisions as it sees fit. We can't tell them anything. Let's see how this relationship develops over the years. The major changes have not yet been implemented. The existing basic law, according to which the budget has been drawn up on the basis of existing principles, applies. But I remember another thing. Why is this law to some extent asymmetrically structured? For a reason, I think. This is not a mistake, but it is because the prevailing approach requires that good times be spared and spent in bad times. However, it often happens in real life that spending in bad times comes a little easier than saving in good times, and therefore perhaps some asymmetric rule ensures that actual behaviour is more or less symmetrical. Without such an additional restriction, each government tends to behave a little asymmetrically.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U83	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In your speech, there were several statements that our economy was relatively close to exploiting its potential and that wage growth shows that the market is relatively hot. Could this mean for the government that, if it were to allow additional investments and the economic environment to be heated, the real effect is quite the opposite, i.e. prices will rise, procurement will become more expensive and we will not get the added value we have hoped for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U85	I think this is exactly the problem that we are concerned about right now. In order to make additional concrete investments, which are very striking and in which we will see by the end of the day that there was an old City Hall, and now there is a new City Hall, it was a step in the right direction. But what we do not see is an indirect impact on other companies. Very many companies, especially outside of Tallinn, have already reached such an edge that the end barely ends. They are trying to increase their productivity, but the cost side is growing rapidly. If we now stimulate this direction even more, we will not notice that businesses are going to disappear somewhere one by one. They're not gonna resist the pressure anymore, and they're gonna shut down their shop. Those who do not do so will reduce their investments. In the private sector, growth is lower, but in the public sector more so. How the total balance ends, whether moderately plus or moderately negative, is difficult to say, but there is a risk of a negative balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ardo Hansson! In your earlier reply, you said that strict fiscal policies and larger reserves are suitable for Estonia, as we have an ageing nation and rising social spending. I share that view. But my question is provocative. Do we not, by holding this very strict fiscal policy and large reserves, really anchor a situation where our people are ageing and social spending is increasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U88	I think that this too is linked to this so-called 'offer side'. If we were to carry out further structural reforms that would somehow increase the growth potential, there could be a little more of this demand. But what is dangerous? Let us look again at the experiences of the mass and boom! Don't overdo it. If we view economic growth as a marathon, then the right pace must be chosen. If we start artificially sprinting in the middle of this marathon and try too quickly to grow up smart afterwards, then we end up getting tired and the result is bad. So we must always see that growth is more or less in line with the growth potential of the economy, which is not from demand factors but from the supply side: the labour market, the business environment, the legal environment and, to some extent, very good public investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U89	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U90	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Governor of Eesti Pank! It has been mentioned here that due to the pressure of wage growth productivity will decrease to some extent and Estonia's competitiveness will slow down. You also pointed out in answer to the previous question that regionally in Estonia, the ability of entrepreneurs to cope may be different due to wage pressure. Should the government also think about measures to boost companies outside the circle of Harju? Should we even start doing something about wage growth to keep it rational?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U91	When you start at the end, it is actually very difficult to do something concrete here, except that the public sector should not fuel wage pressures. The public sector could and must go along, but it must not be the first to create wage pressure. In general, however, more focus should be placed on keeping the labour market flexible so that people can find jobs. And maybe we can shape expectations. If the expectations of businesses, or expectations of society at all, are such that we expect a 7% growth and shape our business models on this basis, although this is not actually possible, then at first it may boost wage growth, but then sooner or later it turns out that it was not sustainable. As far as your first question is concerned, regional measures, etc., this is again a topic for which we, as Eesti Pank, do not have the competence to comment. We do not want to speak about exactly how the government should spend money. However, the experience of other countries should certainly be taken into account as to whether certain such measures are justified or not. But we are not going to give any concrete advice on this issue here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U92	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! In my opinion, the biggest problem with additional spending and budget deficits is that it is based not on a prudent economic policy argument, but rather on a coalition agreement's promises. Its confirmation is that action is being taken contrary to what should actually be done now. Revenue has not been so good for a long time, the economy has turned to growth, the labour market has overheated. If there is further demand, it is completely incomprehensible in economic policy. I heard from the beginning of your reply that the government's advice was given only on the initiative of Eesti Pank. Am I right to understand that the Government of the Republic does not really care about the opinion of Eesti Pank, that is what shows that these talks have only taken place on your own initiative and, on the other hand, that they do not take your proposals into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U94	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the speakers who raised this important issue and so reduced my burden. It often sounds like a very narrow area of interest. In fact, it is a matter of society as a whole that does not belong to any political party or any former finance minister. I would also like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, for his clear answers. At the same time, I would encourage him to be a little more cruel and less polite. Budget mush is a matter where Eesti Pank must not put its paw very deep, but if the porridge is clearly burning and the house is starting to take fire, neither the composition of the porridge nor the boiling temperature should be left unexplored. I'm just saying it's an encouragement. But, of course, I support your views to 90%. I do not particularly like the indication that the structural balance is as viable in a political environment, but of course I like the very honest view that if you create it yourself, you can consider whether you will adopt it for some reason next year. The fact is that the government sector is a stabiliser, but the stabilisation mechanism is shaped by a nominal balance. At a bad time, you spend more, holding the economy, but if you go into a structural disadvantage, it already measures unsustainableness, and certainly also in a political environment, because cuts can only be done by the political government if the house really burns. I've tried. What the government is doing now is actually kidnapping. Let's be honest, he's taking reserves from the previous government, taking structural surpluses, taking money from the taxpayer for six new taxes, and making a commitment to the next government. It does not need to be praised for its courtesy, not even by Eesti Pank. This is not some sort of balance formula; it is a push for responsibility to the future. Economically, of course, the government has glorious times, perfect. Employment is on record, wages are scurrying. Inflation is picking up, European demand is recovering, even Russian demand is emerging. And the euro will start. That's right. This robbery must last until 2020. This is followed by a reduction in the incentive effect of the euro in 2021. However, now is the time for the rapid introduction of euro money, which is already an incentive. So there is no justification for using any reserves or loans. The tax structure is currently extremely favourable. Inflation is favourable and fiscally favourable because the economy is growing with the support of domestic demand. However, the government is doing exactly the opposite of logic: it is doing everything to ensure that domestic demand grows with the effect of simplest consumption, so that it grows, for example, through the construction sector, where hard concrete is poured, but does not improve the potential of the long-term economy. What the government has said about this is basically dim. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U96	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U97	Prime Minister Ratas is talking about potential economic growth, which seems to deserve intervention. No, it doesn't! The potential is now drawn from external demand, euro money and what to deny there, also with the support of public spending, quite proudly. Additional stimulus should certainly not be provided at this time. It destroys long-term growth potential, overheats the labour market and the construction market, but does not include any substantive reforms. That's how much we already know. There are no substantive ideas to address the structural problems of the economy. Plans to deepen structural reforms exist: heating the labour market, heating prices in certain sectors. Finance Minister Sester tried to mess things up today, like he's always messing things up with a long story. We have had a nominal deficit for seven years, but at some point it has finally become apparent that there was a surplus, and in the meantime it has become apparent that there has been a structural deficit. To see, nothing has changed here. Now that's a scam. It's a true age. In fact, for years, the government has been making a budget based on the principle of drawing up budgets with structural surpluses, and if, by the end of the year, a more accurate calculation or better collection of taxes brings additional money, this does not change the overall picture. Comparable! The apple must be likened to an apple, an orange. Orange has been structurally over-planned budget. Changing the basic law is, of course, making its own rules in pursuit of its own interests. And that's what you have to say. It is still basically a constitution for finance. We made it like this consciously. It took a lot of my time as Minister of Finance to first resolve the crisis from 2009 and later discuss these rules in Europe. And there was a weak compromise that a structural minus was finally promised in the fiscal treaty, but it was for the sluggish Southerners, not for us. Really, there is no structural minus sustainable operating model. For 2009, I would like to say one more thing to Mr Ammas, who commented on this issue. In no way would we have been able to launch any procurement or construction in 2009 at exactly the right time. However, this correction was indispensable in the construction sector, saying that employment increased from 40000 to 80,000 in the short term. It would have been wrong to stimulate if we had poured more money into concrete. With the faster introduction of euro money, we have tried to do so. So I think you have to tell the robbers when they kidnap, and you have to fight it. Anyway, we don't accept that kind of game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U98	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I would also like to thank both the questioners who brought this grateful subject to this hall and the Governor of Eesti Pank for their answers! I'm sure the president's message has arrived. In short, the Estonian economy does not need any additional fiscal stimulus at the moment. The government's fiscal policy is not right and rather works against economic progress. The economy is now close to balance and increasing demand by the state only aggravates the problems. One example is wage pressure, which is not favourable to businesses for long periods and rather hinders investment by companies. We've been following government messages. The discharge of the budget deficit, the amendment of the basic rule for drawing up the budget and the use of previous reserves are justified by the need for some productive investment. There are practically no examples of productive investments. The Prime Minister sent a message in Question Time last week that next year will be the largest investment volume ever. All such claims must be treated with great criticism. In this year's budget, as the previous government has done, the volume of government investment is 1.2 billion euros. It will grow to just over €1.3 billion in volume. This is a normal growth, comparable to the growth of previous years. And it must also be taken into account that there was a low period of use of European Union funds: the previous period ended, a new period started. In the coming years, the volume of government investment will also be increased by increasing payments of European Union funds. The government has been talking about some sort of strategic investment. If we look at what these are, these strategic investments will be EUR 315 million over three years, about 100 million per year. There is a major renovation of the City Hall, there are broadband connections, there are public housing and road investments. This 315 million cannot in any way justify a budget deficit, cannot justify an increase in the tax burden and the introduction of six new taxes. The real reason for the deficit is not productive investment, but the country's excessive running costs - these rising fixed costs, which are passed year after year and place a heavy burden on the budget. There are no one-off productivity-enhancing investments. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U100	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U101	I received an answer here some time ago to the question, which was also put today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that how much of these government investments have been compared to GDP in previous years. This is an objective indication of the situation. In fact, over the past three years, government investment has been higher than it will be next year, compared to GDP. So we cannot talk about productive investment in economic recovery. The government simply does not have any ideas for productive investments. Probably also the funding of research and development, which was asked about in the hall, will be kept more or less at last year's level. But it is certainly the commitments made by the coalition agreement and the resulting running and fixed costs in the budget that cause the deficit to the country too much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U102	Igor Gräzin! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The EAS has spent tens of thousands of euros to produce the Estonian brand in the pooping hedgehog and what they are all about. The Estonian trademark is not an image of any fecal. The Estonian brand has a balanced budget. No government is really the guarantor of this balanced budget, the least of which is the current government. The balanced budget has been guaranteed by the Estonian people. During the crisis, people had to be deprived of dental benefits, funeral allowances, whatever. The belt's been tightened by everything. We are one of the few countries in charge of the budget. That's our trademark! And now there is a place where it has to be said that there is no small deficit and there is no large deficit, there is a budget deficit. It's the same as in pregnancy: either it is or it isn't. There is absolutely no difference between the 0.5% deficit or 50% deficit taken from the loan. Because even in the event of a small deficit, we are joining the same group of countries like Greece, Italy and Spain. Do we want to be there? Okay, okay, we want to. Can we afford it? Can we give up our brand? I think the President of the Bank is willing to admit that banking means trust. Money is nothing but a trust security. The reliability security in the case of Estonia has been that we have the budget in order. We've got it hard. I'm sorry, I generally want to be polite! But when we talk about the courtesy of Eesti Pank, the least we can do is take it as a compliment. Eesti Pank, which is polite, is not a bank. For the simple reason that the deficit in the state budget is a deficit and politics is a policy. To claim that we're avoiding politics... Remember what the same Steagall said who drafted the Glass-Steagall Act in the 1930s? Steagall said very simply: there is no fiscal policy that does not become monetary. If the bank does not make political assessments, it will not conduct monetary policy. The question arises as to what he will do. Yes, today's budget has nothing to do with tomorrow's monetary policy. Deal! But it's going to be three-four-five, ten years. We're going to the market, and please, we're not in the elite club we're in now. And I'm gonna use apologize! just the words of Siim Kallas, Governor of Eesti Pank, that dialectics is a powerful thing. It's like a deficit, but it's not really like it's hot, but it's not that bad. Siim Kallas said: yes, dialectic is a powerful thing, and Lenin was right, but Lenin was wrong when he said that dialectic was all-powerful. I mean, if it is, or it isn't, then I asked you this question. And I didn't want a five-minute answer or a lecture, but I wanted to know if the budget was dangerously in deficit or not. So now we know that in some ways it is, but it isn't. Investments are as if productive and as if not. Aivar Sõerd has always been an optimist, and he said that a clear message was given from this remote. There was no message from this remote unit today. We haven't told you if it's doomed or not. After all, we have said very clearly that yes, the deficits that were It was hard. By the way, let's say thank you to Mart Siimann, my childhood playmate, who in his day was one of the first to think about reserves. Siimann's going down in history! Do we now go down in history by saying that the deficit is what it is and the deficit is not? However, I think that Eesti Pank must be responsible for some assessments of its independence and analytical capacity. It's not bad to work there, it's nice people, but they don't want to take responsibility. They don't want to say anything because they're based on the principle, as Jürgen said, that you're in the dung here, but we're clean. Remember that joke? The shit's falling from upstairs... This is not what we should expect from the central bank right now. I thank the President of the Bank for coming here today. Thank you for being a nice and polite person. But what if it were to be less polite and a little clearer on issues that are of fundamental importance to Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U104	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! There's always a lot of emotion in this hall, and it's certainly never boring. I want to repeat my thoughts, which I have expressed here before, and to encourage Eesti Pank to express its opinions more forcefully. I understand very well the principle that politicians must listen to experts when making decisions. In this way, they can best bear the responsibility that the people have given them. I really cannot understand that the party that was prepared to draw the budget balance into the Constitution has now taken the opposite position. I dare say that I believe that this provision should already be in place today and that it should also be in force tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Then politicians would not be able to carry out their greedy ambitions for quick benefits with all the money of the people. The situation is particularly grotesque in the knowledge that, when it is designed to bring about certain changes in this way, it really means that some are the ones who spend, and others are the ones who collect. In itself, it may be that one or the other can play a better role: some can spend better and collect some better. But that would not be a logical continuation of our country's path to success. This success is measured not only by mathematical works and by expressing everything in money, but also by a certain layer of culture. I am very pleased that we have so far had the ability to grow this layer of culture. Now it seems that we have taken the opposite path; this principle is no longer important. In this sense, I agree with the opinion of the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Igor Gräzin, regarding our trademark. I think this principle is more than a trademark. And it's extremely easy to break, but incredibly difficult to restore. This can only mean one pinch where the rest of the pinching is no longer simply possible or possible at the cost of great suffering and pain. I was also urged by the Honorable Prime Minister's answers. If you look at your faces and your eyes, you might say there's a lot of trouble on this side of the hall. But the Prime Minister said don't worry, the government restored the funeral allowance. It is extremely grotesque on the one hand, but at the same time it illustrates well the perceptions of the current government. Don't worry, we've restored the funeral allowance! I very much wish that in this Parliament some things could be cut into stone much more firmly. In my opinion, this is an issue in which we should not pursue rapid self-interest. After all, we have usually had to learn a lot from rapid enrichment, both through others and through our own experiences. Developing a smart and balanced economy, or directing it, as far as the government can, would be very sensible. The government has a certain role to play in the economy, but it is not about a vigorous intervention in one or the other. So I call on the honourable ambassadors to make sure that some things in our cultural space are sacred so that we do not touch any of the principles. Then our people will have more agreement to come through certain sufferings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U106	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U107	Ladies and gentlemen, It is not possible to allow the opposition to have such a day of celebration that one another's victory will be at the top and one another's applause will be made, and it is believed that the truths that have come from the Reform Party are final truths and that everything must be that way. I'm sure that's not the case. At the same time, I understand Igor Gräzin, who is pretty strong in the study of Zionism. But you won't get through this instigation of the various state institutions! There is nothing to do, § 3 In the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank is granted independence. I liked the answer given by the Governor of Eesti Pank to this kind of advice, even in the case of earlier governments. But I also liked the honest confession that yes, we have had to cut the school allowance, we have had to cut the birth grant, we have had to cut all the benefits of the Estonian people, so we have been somewhere behind in the welfare and happiness index rankings. I understand that the current opposition misses all of this, but it doesn't. We contribute to the well-being of people and do so responsibly. Time will prove it. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U108	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U109	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! I thought I wouldn't come here with a remote control, but the previous speaker, our colleague, Mrs Karilai, did. I understand he had a certain obligation to protect the coalition's activities, but that was a very poor defense. I do not want to confirm the very good thoughts of the rest of the speakers, but it seems to me that this must be done. We obviously all agree that our brand has indeed been a smart fiscal policy throughout this period of independence. And destroying it is a crime against our own country, against our future. We can find all sorts of reasons for doing something this way or another, but if we look at things after all, do we really believe all of this? Perhaps we will only think in advance of what will happen in six or seven months' time during the next elections. Do we also think about what will happen in ten years' time? I really hope we all think about it in this hall. I very much hope that the Estonian Government, all the people who are involved in politics, our officials and the Estonian people in general will think about what will happen to us in the future. Unfortunately, yes, it seems that it will be very easy if we get some money right away. Tomorrow is a nice, beautiful life, you can spend money, the sun shines, friends are all around. But then the hard days come when the money's gone. But even then, there must be a way to live. Our period of independence has shown that we have been able to think that at some point this could be a bad time. Let us not forget, then, that the crisis can come again and again. The world is so unstable, there are so many different risks! We don't know what's gonna happen, but I'm sure something's gonna happen. We don't know when it's gonna happen, but I'm sure something's gonna happen in ten years. This will happen in our lifetime and certainly in the lifetime of our children. It would be a crime if we put ourselves in a situation where we can no longer manage, where we sit with empty pockets, empty hands, and have to pick up the beggar bag. But is there anything going on in there for us? Think of the way you deal with the person to whom you have repeatedly given suggestions, trying to help him, but he has not listened to you. And then one minute he comes to you and says you have to help me. He can't and doesn't want to be helped. We currently have a certain safety net in the form of the European Union, but let us think about whether we really want to use this safety net in an irresponsible way, as some countries have done. We're a small country, and we should have so much pride that we can handle ourselves. Yes, we are cooperating with others, but we must not create situations where we are forced to ask for forgiveness, we were foolish. A wise person learns from the mistakes of others, a fool doesn't even learn from his own. We've made mistakes. Please don't repeat them! And that's what I'm gonna tell the coalition. Think, speak among yourselves, and please do not spoil what we have achieved! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U110	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the very clear talk to the Governor of Eesti Pank. It seems particularly clear when I compare this with what we hear in the Committee on Monetary Affairs from the Minister for Finance. What, though, is the problem? The Governor of Eesti Pank is very polite and delicate in his statements, as colleagues rightly pointed out when they asked questions. And it's usually the right language. But if the government has really listened politely to the advice of Eesti Pank, as the President of the Bank mentioned, then the government has not listened to them. It's a sad thing to say, but I'm afraid the current government is a little hard at all. Maybe we should give him some more advice. Now one might ask whether the current government could give in to temptation and use reserves or borrow to fulfil its electoral promises. This temptation is, of course, great and, unlike the recession, the loan conditions are currently extremely favourable. And there is a way of thinking why we in this cold and bleak Nordic country must be more papal than the Pope himself, when southern Europe is more loose. Couldn't we somehow bring the benefits of the future to this day and start living in a great way, if only by increasing the loan burden, instead of waiting, to live from party to mouth and collect reserves? The President of the Bank said very nicely that once you give in to this temptation and go on this slippery road, you may not be able to stop at the right time. There is no special situation at the moment that would justify such behaviour. The current government will probably find appropriate analysis, suitable analysts. As we have just heard, the economy is not an exact science. There are different views and questions as to whether the Estonian economy is close to realising its potential or some lags behind it, different knowledgeers have very different opinions. Our Ministry of Finance thinks of one thing, the European Commission thinks of another, bank analysts maybe third and fourth. But consideration should also be given to what a good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, said nicely in one article. Indeed, the so-called structural surplus of previous years may have been misjudged at all. Maybe it's more on paper. If the government is now inventing a trick of how to really cash and smack this misjudged structural surplus on paper, it is not wise to do so. It is good that there is also a fiscal council besides Eesti Pank, which gives the Committee on Monetary Affairs an annual overview of the state of our government budget. The Board's message has always been very conservative. Last year, Professor Eamets said that due to the divergence of estimates, the government should set even more demanding targets for the coming years than the current state budget law requires a minimum. Please, can I have more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U111	I consider the consultation on 347 issues closed. Thank you, Mr President of the Republic of Estonia. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Maybe I'm a forward-looking person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U112	Firstly, as I said, it has not actually been quite the case with previous governments that our advice has always been asked on every issue. We do not see that the current government is very different in this respect. But communication has indeed taken our initiative. On the other hand, when the bill has finally been drafted, it will also be sent to us. It is very important if we can make proposals in the initial phase. People who have prepared drafts and dealt with politics will probably know that communication and advice are much more beneficial at an early stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U113	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I want to ask you about the financing of the budget deficit. The nominal deficit is known to be inevitable from time to time. If we look now in the long term, say, from a 10 to 15-year perspective, what method of financing would be better, in your opinion: do we use reserves or take out loans?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U115	I think it depends very much on a few things. On the one hand, it should be taken into account that some reserves must always be held by the state. Today we have them quite nicely, with about 10% of GDP. The experience of the previous recession showed that, in fact, a situation can easily arise, especially in small countries where it is simply impossible to borrow money for any consideration. Having reserves in such a situation is a matter of survival. But if these buffers are already in place and there is a need, let's say, to use some specific source of financing to close some nominal deficit, then of course, you have to consider the pros and cons of borrowing from the European Investment Bank, for example, or opting for bonds or some other bank loan, whatever. Each solution has its pros and cons.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U116	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! One question concerned the budgetary impact of EU money, and you replied that at the end of the previous programming period and at the beginning of the new one there was a cooling effect on the economy. This was certainly known in a wide range of areas and I think also at different levels. 2020 is no longer far away, and it would be particularly wise to be prepared and to learn from omissions or mistakes. We have heard very often the claim that the Government of the Republic lacks so-called exit strategies. What advice would you give to reduce the negative impact on our budget and balance at the beginning of the next programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U118	There is certainly a need to look at specific experiences from the previous period, why this slowdown took place, whether it was suddenly because we missed something, that no new projects had been put on the shelf. Some might say that we actually learned to move money and spend it on anything. Perhaps it may have been wise to take some time off and ensure that what we invest in still makes sense. So we can only evaluate this period at the end of this. Now we are hoping that we will take the momentum now and that we will soon be able to start spending euro money again. And then we have a few years of experience. I don't think these changes are going to happen overnight. Nor is it that these amounts will disappear in 2021. It's just that they're a few percent smaller than they are now. So by then, we should start gathering reserves quietly again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U119	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Has Eesti Pank analysed the investments made by the Estonian government in research and development and innovation in the longer term? When we talk about economic sustainability and growth, has investment in our research and development been sufficient from this point of view? Perhaps this is an area that could help Estonia for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U121	Thank you for your question. We haven't analysed it in detail, but I think maybe we've really poured a lot of concrete in earlier periods. We should not simply because casting concrete can also be classified as investments in education and science, spending money only on this. If we look at where more money has been placed in the Estonian economy, we will see that we have very much invested in cars and buildings. At the same time, there are certainly a great many promising investments in research and education activities themselves. But with which we are significantly behind Finland, for example, the whole intellectual property sector is software, research and development, patents and such things. In this area, we have about one fifth of the capital that Finland has for an employee. But to develop a car park or hardware, we've invested as much as Finns.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U122	Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Based on Article 69 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, I will first give the floor to Andres Ammas, who is one of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U123	Today our demographic situation has been referred to several times from this remote control. Yes, our demographic development has been declining. Our social system is clearly unsustainable. People of the best working age have migrated a great deal, with a very rapid decline in the working population. The ratio between working age and retirement age is increasingly unfavourable, and that is what we should bear in mind when the temptation to let the budget deficit or to borrow or to spread reserves is getting too big. The measures that the government is currently planning are, in our group's view, talking about ignoring reality. We are talking about a huge debt that will be paid for by future generations. And the government does not seem to have any vastly brilliant strategy or scenario to ensure economic sustainability. The future will not end with the next elections, nor will it end with the next elections. You should think about it in the long run. The world is troubled. Any crisis in the world may add to all the aspects that have already been mentioned today. So in this wave of low growth, we do not know how big this growth really is, however, should rather increase reserves rather than make the budget negative. If we start discussing a country's budgetary strategy here, hopefully it will happen very soon, then there will be time and opportunity to discuss more about what to spend on when the temptation to spend is so terrible. My good colleague and penguin, Krista Aru, has already pointed out that perhaps more should be spent on people and brains. I agree with the Governor of Eesti Pank, who said that it is sometimes very difficult to distinguish between current expenditure and investment. In my beloved profession, I say that I do not know whether a teacher's salary could be a running cost. If this work is done well and consistently, then perhaps it is a kind of investment in the future. As a result, the knowledge-based economy could develop more rapidly in ten years' time. There should certainly be much more investment in research and development than our current government's modest scheme allows for the current level of investment. Those countries that wisely improve their economies will certainly have a clear competitive advantage in the future. On behalf of the heirs, I thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for their answers! I hope they dug into a rocky government as a drop of water, at least a few of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U124	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U125	The third item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Urmas Kruuse, Igor Gräzini, Liina Kersna, Ants Laaneots and Terje Trei concerning the aid for the replacement of a farmer. Urmas Kruus, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U126	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues, who are still in this Chamber! We have submitted with some of our group members an inquiry into the reduction of the payment for the replacement of a farmer. We know that the purpose of the support for the replacement of a farmer has been to provide a preferential substitute service for small farmers. This is extremely important, especially when we think about small family businesses and that 365 days of work a year may be very necessary, but is it always reasonable? Therefore, up to now, up to 100% of the costs incurred to replace the farmer or his staff member have been reimbursed for this allowance during leave, sickness, maternity leave and maternity leave of up to 7 years, including in the event of death. The number of suppliers of farm replacement services has increased every year, without which it will certainly be difficult for smaller livestock farmers to cope. We know that the Minister for Rural Affairs has decided to reduce the support for the replacement of a farmer by EUR 50000. However, a reduction in the volume of the service can give a very clear impetus to abandoning production, especially if we assess the prospect of future growth. You all understand very well that all people in this life need rest. In addition, on 6 March, the Riigikogu in the Committee on Rural Affairs presented the plan of the Ministry of Rural Affairs to reduce by 30000 euros the annual operating grant of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, which funds the representation of the interests of small and medium-sized farmers and joint activities. In fact, the Central Union has also been and has stood up for this so-called substitution allowance and the chief ideology. We therefore want to know from the honourable Minister for Rural Affairs why these reductions have been made and what is behind them. I hope that the honourable minister will read the question before he answers the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U127	Four questions must be answered by Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U128	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Thank you, inquisitors! Question No 1: 'Please explain why it was decided to reduce the aid for the replacement of a farmer by EUR 50000? ' Support for the replacement of a farmer has not been reduced, but has remained at the same level as in previous years. Between 2013 and 2015, the annual amount of the farmer's replacement payment was EUR 500000. In 2016, the grant budget was EUR 50000 higher, i.e. a total of EUR 550000, in exceptional circumstances and with the support of emergency crisis assistance instruments. According to the three largest agricultural organisations, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, crisis assistance is not the right source for increasing support. It was acknowledged that crisis assistance must be paid out quickly and in full. Question 2: 'Please present your vision of the future of small farmers in a situation where you have decided to reduce subsidies for small farmers. ' First of all, I would like to stress that the sustainability of small farmers is certainly a priority for us and that they have been given important advantages in the case of several subsidies. I also note that the support for the replacement of the farmer, which is the main subject of this inquiry, represents 0.2% of the total amount of aid paid to the whole sector. In 2016, total support for the production, processing and rural development of agricultural products was paid at EUR 251,3 million, of which national payments are also subject to substitution payments of EUR 4.5 million. State aid may be granted only to small and medium-sized enterprises under State aid rules. Most of the payments are paid to small and large farms on a flat-rate basis, while there are schemes both in the first pillar of the CAP direct payments and in the second pillar MAK payments that directly favour smaller enterprises. Here are some examples. In 2017, farmers with smaller herds have been preferred for the payment of direct payments for dairy cows. Companies with up to 400 dairy cows with a herd of up to 100 dairy cows benefit from a higher rate of aid of €200 per cow than those with a total of €101.400 per cow (aid of €100 per cow). In addition, this year it is also possible to apply for a direct payment for small farmers. Directly smaller companies have been targeted at a wide range of measures under MAK 2014-2020 and have also made a variety of different preferences in content. In addition, a loan for growth at reduced interest rates is provided separately for micro and small enterprises as a financial instrument for the period 2014 to 2020. Small farmers are also in a privileged position for a number of MAM support measures: for example, support for advisory services, where small farms have a separate mentoring service, and support for agricultural investment, where small producers are able to acquire mobile techniques and where preference is provided for in the evaluation of projects. As the key to the competitiveness of small producers lies in joint action, more attention has been paid to joint action in the current period, with various measures contributing to joint production, processing and marketing. I would also briefly bring some statistics, based on the small farmers' 2016/2015. 2009 economic indicators. The share of grants in total production is on average 30% for small businesses and has not decreased over the years, but rather remained at the same level. By comparison, the average number of enterprises has remained within the limits of 19 to 28% over the last three years and has been around 12% for large companies. Looking at the share of subsidies in the net added value created by companies, it can be seen that smaller companies have value added only from grants in many years. These companies account for more than 100% of their net added value. This means that without the aid, the value of production does not cover the costs incurred in producing it, including depreciation. At the same time, for medium and large enterprises, this figure remains at 48 to 115% and 38 to 63% respectively. Overall, it can be said that more subsidies were paid to large and small enterprises on an equal basis, but at the same time, measures favouring smaller undertakings are both in coupled direct payments and in MAK investment grants, and in addition to State aid measures aimed mainly at small and medium-sized enterprises. As the CAP is implemented in the direction of less and less coupled support, the company's decision to produce depends also on the area in which it operates and on which aid schemes are involved. Let me give you a concrete example. Today, PRIA opened an application for support for the development of small farms. A total of EUR 5 million can be requested and the company can receive up to EUR 15000 during the funding period. Therefore, the argument that aid for small producers is progressively being reduced cannot be accepted. The same EUR 19.9 million that the government decided to grant transitional aid this year also directly affects small enterprises. The third and fourth questions can be answered together. 'Please explain how you have planned to compensate for the reduction of the operating grant of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. ' 'Please explain how reducing the operating support of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation will contribute to the development of small business? ' The Ministry of Rural Affairs has increasingly moved from the payment of operating grants to ordering specific activities when concluding contracts for the use of the state budget allocation with the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. This will, in our opinion, increase transparency in the use of the allocation. In 2017, the following activities are ordered from the Estonian Farmers' Association: organizing the Estonian farm days, supporting the organisation of the open farm day, organising the best farm and farm food competition and organising the farm fair, organising information days for a short delivery time. At the same time, we believe that farmers, including members of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, should feel the importance of their representative organisation and contribute somewhat more to its operation through membership fees. The funding of meetings, meetings and congress with members of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation increases the responsibility and link between the board and the ordinary members. In addition, the financial volumes of the allocations should be considered here. With comparable activities and volumes, the financing of agricultural organisations is more proportionate than has been the case so far. The public procurement law, which has not been followed in previous years, must certainly also be used. Procurement above EUR 40000, an agreement above EUR 40000 requires a public procurement. This has not been done in previous years, but I hope that it will be done in the coming years. The principle should be that NGOs are primarily funded by their members and the state is co-financed by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U129	The round of questions for the minister will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You're still not gonna convince me. This type of support has been reduced by EUR 50000 compared to the plans of the previous Minister. In addition, the inquiry also points to a reduction in the annual operating aid of EUR 30000 for the Farmers' Confederation. I can see here in contrast to the previous question, where the government had the sea to its knees, that we would take money for the future, divide it and continue to do anything. So how come the Minister of Rural Affairs hasn't fit into this money-sharing party? Is it the ideology of the Centre Party that we should have huge municipalities, huge companies, top-down social model, so that the more addicts, the better the fewer landlords, the better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U131	Thank you. There were quite a number of estimates here, but as I told you, the amount has not been reduced. In 2016, when agriculture was in crisis, EUR 50000 of emergency aid was granted to support the replacement of farmers. The Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation protested against this. Everyone opposed, but that was still the decision. This year, the previous situation was simply restored. And as you know, if that money isn't on the base, then it doesn't really exist. So nobody's taken the money. Whether or not there should be more money, this will only become clear in the future. If we adopt this regulation, which has ever been drawn up, then for example, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation can become 20% of this same EUR 500000 operating grant. I ask where there is a procurement for this amount, for this half a million euros, and why this money should go only to the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. It's public money, it should be tendered out. And there's a big difference, who can administer it by, say, 5% and who can administrate it by 20%. This is public money and public money we should use very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U132	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U133	Thank you. Dear Minister, I really like the way you talk about using public money. But when I recall the activities of the previous minister and all this direction, the government decided very quickly to allocate several million euros to a small target group. My question, however, is this. Was it not enough of these very many millions that there could have been a transitional year in which the Minister would have been able to clarify matters and would have gone to cut back on the information that was reported to him in a short time? As a result, this apparent attack on the Central Union and on the people who have taken part in the replacement service is also an obvious one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U134	I will stop answering this question because § 140, according to which answers to inquiries are made, says that the Minister is entitled to the final word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U135	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U136	... then we realize that the problems are a little different. In fact, this also means that the financial flows of large companies are basically better in the medium term due to certain objectivity and economies of scale. It is therefore particularly important to support these small businesses properly and fairly. I would dare say that this replacement service is about the same service as wage subsidies in Ida-Virumaa. That's where we're willing to give the money. We'll pay for half the employment there. But today we are saying that there is a group of people who are made redundant to help those farmers who could also get some rest a year. When I was a minister driving around Estonia, I think, Tarmo, that you know that as well as you do, I saw these family models. What do we see? Modest people say that maybe they could get a week's rest a year and go somewhere with their family. But the general model was this, including those who themselves sell their milk directly to the consumer, that they are occupied seven days a week, that they do not have holidays. Therefore, substitution support is extremely important. It must also be said that your predecessor promised to find a solution. He promised to find a solution using, on a temporary basis, the same option as regards emergency support, but the solution was allowed to be found. It's not really there right now. That is why I personally was extremely evil when I presented this question with my colleagues. I am evil precisely because people would have deserved at least an advance if the EUR 30000 were taken away from them. This is embarrassing in my opinion and describes a certain pattern. It is gratifying in itself that the Minister has consultative groups, but the question has also arisen in society as to whether we are increasing the part where the people who give advice are themselves direct beneficiaries. And I do not think it is absolutely transparent. To say that the allocation of some kind of money is not transparent in these circumstances is not quite right and fair. Therefore, together we should find solutions how to give this money in the future, so that it is better shared, but there is no need to talk about the fact that it is the most opaque act in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U137	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U138	Good vice chairman! Good minister! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, One old time comes to mind: there was a party that wanted to destroy all farming at all costs. I hope that the descendants or successors of this party will not follow the same policy. It is then about the People's Union, whose ministers made every effort to maximise the opportunities of the Farmers' Confederation compared to the large producers and their representative organisations. Helir-Valdor Seeder, my former boss, did try to ensure that producer organisations have more or less equal opportunities, because in Estonia everyone must have the opportunity to develop their own entrepreneurial activities. What is the advantage of farming? The advantage of farming is that as many people as possible will be occupied in Estonia. I have grown up on a farm where my parents were unable to take children on a car and drive to Tallinn Zoo, not to mention Saaremaa. People in other areas of life were able to give it to their families. I should have stopped farming to go somewhere. But is this the right solution? I'd rather not. Rather, we should create conditions to ensure that Estonia is well and capable of being delivered. Speaking here about membership fees and the principles of the functioning of the NGO, how much have we said about the fact that political parties, as non-profit organisations, should, above all, manage their membership fees and donations, not so much use the insurmountable state budget? And now comes the minister who says that this is the way to do it. And where, then, is the Centre Party, which unfortunately has numerous examples of corruption in different regions? The Minister said that the rules for the provision of services are unclear and unnegotiated. I would have liked to have heard from this board, in particular, that yes, we were negotiating, yes, we had this perspective on time, but since we did not find a common language with the relevant organisation, this is the measure by which to call them to order. But I didn't hear that today. Today was just one big accusation that the Farmers' Confederation couldn't handle it. Yeah, maybe there aren't any qualified leaders out there who can handle things like this, but that's why his membership mustn't suffer. In this case, it would be necessary to train, educate and jointly seek opportunities for management. So I assume that the minister is calling back his decision, does not give a double answer that, oh, this EUR 50000 is pending, maybe a better implementation option for the substitute service measure will be found. Or what I heard today is that this money is going to be in a joint boiler, which means no one knows who these real beneficiaries are. I still expect and hope that the Centre Party, under the leadership of the Minister for Rural Affairs, will support life in the country and provide an opportunity for motivated action so that farming can continue as an enterprise holding the roots of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U139	Please, Minister for Rural Affairs, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U140	Thank you. There was quite an interesting discussion, and I want to have a say in this discussion. When the inquisitors said that it was a pattern and an attitude, it was actually a pattern and an attitude. Unlike the previous government, this government has turned its face to farmers and directly to farmers. I would like to give you an example that the previous government did not pay EUR 69 million in transitional support, which led to the crises and crash of the Estonian farmer. 12,000 dairy cows left the herd and the number of pigs has fallen by 10,000. And now we are talking here for an hour about the EUR 50000 that was taken away from crisis aid. This was also opposed by the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, who did not support this withdrawal. So even the Estonian Farmers' Confederation did not support the withdrawal of funds from crisis aid and the transfer of funds to substitute support. So what are we talking about? Farmers didn't support it either. To contrast farmers with other farmers now is, in my opinion, very flat. No one's seen such a confrontation anywhere, and neither have I. The money that was taken is still there, and we need to find out in the house how it is used. The ministry can't just give you that much money, so much for you, there's gotta be a reason for each money. Agreements with the Farmers' Confederation cover very specific activities. If we find any more specific activities, then the money will also be on this line. Honourable Members, why do you think that the Estonian taxpayer should finance only these three central alliances, to pay for their activities? Why is the Gardening Union not supported, why is the Fisheries Union not supported, why is the Sheep Association not supported, why is the beekeeping Union not supported? I think I could count 20 alliances that the country doesn't support at all. Why are these three alliances so privileged? Perhaps one of the Members can give me this answer. I don't know that answer. I think they should all be treated equally; they are our producers, farmers. I don't think it's fair or adequate to prefer one to another. Let's look at the picture and let's not play around the EUR 50,000 that still exists, it hasn't been distributed to anyone. And now to confront the farmers with the rest of the rural and agricultural fields! I just want a constructive debate. I have also been in politics for a long time, and I was surprised to see that the money that all the alliances were against was being fought for and directed by the Minister's guideline into an area that was not supported by the rest of the alliances. That is the political choice. This must be taken as a political choice. We restored the previous situation, but at the same time we gave farmers more money this year, the farmer receives EUR 38.2 million and the EUR 50000 is still there. It hasn't been redirected to anyone else, not to any friend. Thank you and constructive discussions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Very respected Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! That's some pretty interesting demagoguery I heard here. I am also prepared to recognise the government in opposition, including Tarmo Tamme, and I have done so. But what did we notice when we listened to these answers? We noticed one simple thing. When talking about small businesses, it was said that without certain subsidies it would be very difficult for them to achieve added value. This could be objective statistics. However, it was also said that these representative organisations should collect membership fees and both receive the same amount of support. I mean, that's completely absurd. That's completely inclined to one side of the story. The whole point and logic of our inquiry was that small farmers lack funds to support a representative organisation. I would have been very grateful, and I think it would have been very polite if it hadn't been done. But to tell this representative organisation at the beginning of the financial year that we are taking 30,000 away from you, which is almost a third of this support, is simply disrespectful. That's actually the whole question. I would not very much like to discuss what kind of public procurements are going through in the Riigikogu for roofing money. I don't want to discuss it, and I don't want to get involved today. I very much hope that the Honorable Minister for Rural Affairs will take the same view of all NGOs. But I would like to ask today, with a loud voice, who and on what grounds this additional money went to. Who exactly did it go to? I am very disappointed in that. If that money was brokered, who was it reallocated to? I wish I'd known, but I didn't hear that. The other thing is, I want to get rid of an intelligent lie. When we talk about replacement support, by 2013 it did indeed reach the level of 500000 and in 2016 it was 550000. Yes, the honourable minister was factually right that it was not included in the base section this year. However, the fact is that the Ministry did not refuse to pay support for the emergency aid we received from the European Union. And the decision was based on the increasing need for substitution services. We have talked about this service now only in relation to livestock production, where the need is screaming, but we have never talked about expanding this service. You understand very well that if we are talking about this small community of farmers, where there are currently around 900 members, a little less than 1000, or we are talking about small businesses, for example, having dairy farmers under 2000, we must realise that small businesses can also be killed by individual steps, i.e. we are talking about attitudes. It's actually sad. To talk today at the Riigikogu board about EUR 50000 as a national problem even seems embarrassing, but we are actually talking about some pattern here, we are talking about some attitude. We cannot agree with that, and that is why we have submitted an inquiry. When it comes to transitional support for all enterprises, it is not possible. I do not think that anything has changed in this sense, that nearly 20% of this money will not reach those who actually need it, perhaps we will pay nothing. However, this is not a question and I do not want to challenge the need for certain types of support for farmers at a certain point. I also know, however, if my memory does not deceive me and if my information is correct, that certain types of support were deprived of those dairy farmers who, although not directly selling on the market, have proof from the tax administration. I did not notice in this notice, at least in what was public, that those operators who fairly pay the tax and declare it through the tax administration, too, I believe they are entrepreneurs and would have deserved this support, would have received this support. I hope I'm not wrong. It is therefore extremely sad that such small amounts have not been found in these large sums. Rather, it seems to me, at least on the basis of the information I have received from farmers when talking to them, that the Estonian Farmers' Confederation is afraid to vote in this large association. They have historical experience. If we look at these structural numbers... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U142	Thank you. Politics is a matter of choice. We are restoring the situation that was in previous years. This is the political choice that our government decided to provide farmers with an additional €19.9 million in transitional support and €2 million in additional pig breeding support. Also, the EUR 16.2 million crisis aid that the previous government could not fully allocate, half a million euros missing, will be delivered as a whole. So now to play this game around EUR 50000 and at the same time to set aside the other amounts, these money will all go to the farmer, not to anyone else. And farmers are very happy about it. This is the place of political choices, whether to play a political game around EUR 50000 or look at the picture in real terms and ask how much farmers actually received support this year. I would remind you that the previous government missed the opportunity to support its farmers with EUR 69 million. This option was missed. Why it was left unused, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U143	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Why is this policy of farm relief so that farmers can take their replacements, so slow and tough? What's the reason? As you said here yourself before, the problem with money is probably not that additional money could have been allocated for this purpose if necessary. What, then, is the question? Would it be necessary to carry out a study on whether farmers themselves do not want replacements or whether these people have not been trained? A lot of training money has been left unused from the previous period, as you can see, so it's not about the training money either. So what's this all about? We know that this scheme works very well in Finland. Shouldn't we make it any faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U145	Thank you. I'm sure we should move faster. Farmers deserve it to have a few days off, and they can rest peacefully with their families somewhere. But I say that this system must be clear, understandable and unambiguous. If I read such a sentence that the Estonian Farmers' Confederation has historically become an applicant for the farmer's replacement aid, what does that mean? That, historically, half a million euros will be delivered and then delivered? How can such a thing be possible in Estonia today? This is public money, which should be the subject of public procurement, and then the real price will be revealed. But because it has evolved historically, forgive me, what's going on here? Anyway, I'll tell you, Arno, this money hasn't been moved, it's still there. If we get such a reasoned request, the money will go back for this purpose, the money we took off this line has not been diverted. There is money and the Minister's Advisory Board has made concrete proposals on how to use this money, and one proposal is to channel it into so-called replacement support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U146	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U147	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm quite puzzled, frankly, by listening to your arguments. Firstly, if you claim that the Farmers' Confederation is an NGO and should be more dependent on membership fees, then why do we not see in the row of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce the amount of money they have reduced, given that they could live on behalf of their members. How is that possible? There is also a difference between the measure and the measure, and so far it has been very clear that we must keep Estonian roots, or farming, as a way of life and create more motivational measures. One such measure is the replacement farmer's allowance. The second support I would like to highlight is the support of a young farmer. How can you be so clear that you don't have to and that's it? I don't understand this political choice. Please state very clearly what this political choice is now like. Why is it not the substitute farmer's measure that could motivate farming in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U148	Thank you. This measure amounts to exactly the same amount as it was between 2013 and 2015. In 2017, the exact same amount has not been reduced. And if you ask why the support of the NGO has been reduced, I suggest you read the Public Procurement Act and look at how state money, or taxpayers' money, can be divided by so-called agreements. To be honest, there was actually an equalisation in this case. In a sense, 10000 euros were also taken away from the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and 30000 from the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. They're on a more or less equal scale now. So nobody's been preferred anywhere. As far as the Chamber of Agriculture and Trade is concerned, their representative in Brussels is also our representative there, so this funding is justified. No one has been discriminated against anywhere. But the general logic is that when we talk about a non-profit organisation, a non-profit organisation cannot be run by the state, the state cannot control it. The initiative to set up a non-profit association should come from below, made by the members of the association. But if there is no initiative or common will, the state cannot pay for it with taxpayers' money. I'm afraid that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U149	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have heard criticism of the fact that when the Chamber of Agriculture and the Farmers' Association joined together for joint action, farmers, small producers, were not taken there. Do you have an opinion on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U151	Thank you. That's a good question. The Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Agricultural Chamber have decided to join and this is the right step. I hope that farmers will have a single central organisation in Estonia with which the government, the minister or the ministry will have a good negotiating role. The farmers' confederation said they wouldn't join it, they'd want to deliver on their own. It is their choice and no one can force them to join, but I would assume that there would be one such strong central organisation in Estonia, which then the state could also fund very clearly and intelligibly, rather than using such dim funding schemes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U152	Dear Minister, No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U153	Fourth item: An inquiry into the results of the administrative-territorial reform in Viljandi (No 327) submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik and Jüri Adams. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister Korb! I must say that this is, to a large extent, a question of this kind of domestic content. We do not have much faith, or we do not have the knowledge that the respected minister would be a very good expert in the formation and place names of the so-called identity and church parish parishes of Mulgimaa, Viljandimaa or other Estonian rural areas, the historical settlement units, parishes, localities and their cultural identities. However, we do feel that administrative reform is sometimes hitting this historical heritage quite painfully, unfairly, and foolishly. For some reason, it has turned out that ministers for public administration and regional policy have become people whose main concern is to calculate human heads to 5000 and beyond, but not to pay attention to geographical and historical issues that, however, deeply matter to people about their identity and their historical belonging. In any case, ministers have based their ideology on the fact that this numerical criterion is more important than the cultural criterion. But the easiest thing to do is make stupid decisions when you don't know anything about it. One direction of this inquiry is to at least acknowledge these problems, knowing that the Minister is coming to tell us that these trains have long since left. But still, anyway. Here maybe two of the broadest questions. One is the creation of Mulgi rural municipality in such a way that there are actually only two historic Mulgimaa parishes: Halliste and Karksi. Most of the cultural history of Mulgimaa is outside of Paistu, Tarvastu and Helme. By the way, the House Names Board has said: 'The meaning of names should be avoided from arbitrary distortion, for example from a situation where the boundaries between the region of origin and the new rural municipality of formation are misleadingly different (the municipality only covers part of the territory of the region or, on the contrary, the region is much larger). ' This is one of Viljandi's cases. There is another thing on which the Council has also expressed its opinion. He has not said a categorically no, which reminds me a little of the previous question, where the Governor of Eesti Pank has probably been too polite to express his principles in order for his vote to be heard to the government. I think it's the same problem for the seat council. However, one of the Council's general recommendations is that historical names should be preferred and, if possible, not to use geographical names with weathered complements as new administrative units, as it is now North Sakala. What's the matter with North Sakala? The problem is the same: in the fear that 5,000 people will not be gathered together and that no one will be left alone, local governments that have historically never belonged together have been forced together. Whether they now have a single centre and a sense of belonging, a common identity can be questioned. In any case, this problem is serious and difficult to solve. What do we not want to do with this question? We do not want to blame the municipalities that have made these decisions because they have been forced to do so. This pattern is an awful lot where municipalities come together and decide first to rule out the names of existing municipalities. And it's already done with stupidity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U155	The eight questions of the inquiry are answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioners and esteemed attendees! I am pleased to be before you again with the issues of administrative reform. I would also like to thank you for the introduction made by the honourable heir, or rather for the opinions he gave on this board. In commenting on his views, I would say that yes, the administrative reform turned out to be what it is. This is not a matter made by one or two people, the Minister, but it is a joint work of the government first. The government belonged to, and still belongs to, three political parties in the past, there was one combination; now there is another, and what the administrative reform is going to be, is the compromise reached by all these parties. After all, the administrative reform was adopted and approved in this Chamber, so it is the decision of the parliamentary majority. Most of the decision, however, is very difficult to argue, to discuss. The reasons are sometimes very difficult to explain. Really, Mulgimaa is a very sweet and very nice place, I have been there both during my term of office and before that. The questions that have arisen there are very emotional, some of them are related to names, and I had contact with them before you submitted your question. It is good that you raised this problem in your inquiry. But now I'm going to start with a lot of questions, which is eight, quite a lot. The first question: 'In the northern part of Viljandi County, Kõo rural municipality, Suure-Jaani rural municipality, Kõpu rural municipality and Võhma rural municipality will be formed upon the merger of the towns of Põhja-Sakala. What exactly is this municipality north of, and which geographical or administrative units are then to be treated as Southern Sakala? ' I'll explain. This question contains a certain irony and it is understandable, it can be expressed. However, when it comes to the process of selecting the name, it is clear that the choice of name was one of the responsibilities that the municipalities and cities had in the process of administrative reform, the negotiations had to agree on a name. Very often, the name was the result of a compromise. And who else, if not the local people, can best decide what kind of name is to be called. The discussion included two names: Suure-Jaani Municipality and North Sakala Municipality. The councils voted on both names and stayed with the name of North Sakala. Indeed, the name committee also discussed it at its meetings and recommended the use of the name Suure-Jaani. As you know from the minutes, the name committee did not deny the name of North Sakala, i.e. in their opinion there could also be a Northern Sakala municipality. The decision was finally confirmed by the Government of the Republic in January, as you know, and by this name this parish is now. The second question: 'Why was the name of Suure-Jaani abandoned, which was the first recommendation of the QC Task Force? ' I say once again that the House Names Council made a number of recommendations, and the members of the local council chose which name to take. The Commission did not object to the name chosen and this was confirmed. The third question: 'What historical and other links (road network, work and school places) link the current Kõpu rural municipality to the rest of the northern parts of Sakala, especially Suure-Jaani? ' Once again, the whole logic of the administrative reform was built on the fact that the municipalities themselves had to agree to join each other. The criterion had been set, 5 000 people in the municipality had to fulfil this criterion. The villages usually made several proposals in different directions, with whom and in which direction to join or join. They started negotiations, and sometimes they failed, sometimes they succeeded. Kõpu municipality must have found a lot in common with Võhma city, Kõo municipality and Suure-Jaani municipality. They decided that they wanted to do their business together and integrate with their infrastructure, as you said, the road network and the school network. So that's the decision the council made. Question 4: "What are the characteristics that Kõpu belongs to North Sakala, but Kolga-Jaani does not belong to? In April 2016, Kolga-Jaani proposed to the municipality of Suure-Jaani to open accession negotiations, but the council finally decided to refuse the proposal and start negotiations with the municipality of Viljandi and Tarvastu, with whom they later also entered into an accession agreement. Then we go to Mulgimaa. Question 5: "How do you justify the creation of Mulgi rural municipality in an area where most of the cultural history of Mulgimaa does not fit? How will the problems arising from this lack of coverage be solved? " Yes, the situation and the name of the new parish created a certain controversy. The local naming council proposed not to use the name of Mulgi parish. The name of the rural municipality being formed is not Mulgimaa, because Mulgimaa is considered to be a larger territory, but Mulgimaa. It was therefore decided that since Halliste and Karksi are still somewhat related to the area within the boundaries of the two parishes, the name could be Mulgi parish, although the territory of Mulgimaa is clearly larger than the territory of the three merged municipalities, Abja parish, Halliste parish, Karksi parish and Mõisaküla city. If a municipality outside Mulgimaa had wished for the name of Mulg municipality, it would have been strange. However, since this name was requested by the municipality on the territory of Mulgimaa, it was found that Mulg's name was relevant and reasonable. Question 6: 'The municipalities of Abja, Halliste and Karksi and the town of Mõisaküla did not agree at the time of the merger where the centre of Mulgi municipality will be located. What practical problems do the lack of agreement pose? " Indeed, these four local authorities did not agree to negotiate, because there are two competing places where the centre could be. This is such a minor concern, but the agreement or designation of the Centre by law is not mandatory for a merger agreement. The four municipalities agreed that the new council would decide where the centre would be located. As far as practical problems are concerned, they are, for the time being, quite difficult to foresee, because it was agreed that citizens would be served in all regions, and this would not be reduced anywhere. It can be assumed that this will not be a major problem. Later, the council will decide where the centre is located. Let's keep going. Question 7: "With what reasons did the Government of the Republic confirm the name of Mulgi parish, even though the House Name Council did not consider that name appropriate? ' I've already stopped for the parish, but I can go over those reasons again. The municipalities consider that the formation of a municipality called Mulgi municipality is suitable for the municipalities of Abja, Halliste and Karksi and the city of Mõisaküla. In the course of the administrative reform, the first attempt was to build on the wishes and identity of local authorities. The name is known and common in the locality and is culturally important. Since the municipality that is being created will not cover the entire Mulgimaa, the municipalities want the municipality's name to be Mulgimaa, not the municipality of Mulgimaa, which would be misleading. Municipalities do not want a branch complement to the name of the place, such as West Mulgi or Abja-Mulgi or Halliste-Karksi. The Mulgi name does not contain any dotted letters, unlike the West Mulgi version, and it makes it easier to communicate with foreign countries and work online. The name of Mulgi parish is short, mouthy and memorable. There is a consensus between the merging municipalities on the name of the municipality. These were the four main reasons why Mulgi was chosen in favour of the municipality. Question 8: "Why is Helme Parish, which is part of Mulgimaa, Valga County? Since the municipality joining within Helme parish will be named Tõrva, please explain what were the reasons and reasons for pushing the native name of Helme into the background? ' The municipalities of Helme, Hummuli and Põdrala are located in Valgamaa and the city of Tõrva decided to join Tõrva on 21 June 2016. The name was surveyed and the residents had a choice between two names: Helme Municipality and Tõrva Municipality. During the survey, the municipality of Helme received more votes. The councils had agreed in advance that the citizens' opinion on the name issue would be binding on the councils if at least 50% of the municipal citizens with the right to vote took part in the poll. However, the actual participation remained considerably smaller. The secret name vote among Commissioners was in favour of the name Tõrva, which was strongly supported by three out of four councils. The votes of the councils were final and the name of the new municipality was agreed in Tõrva municipality. Since the City of Tõrva is the centre of the new municipality, the choice of name can be considered justified and the government had no reason to consider the name of the municipality inappropriate. Those were the eight questions, I got into time. We can continue the fruitful discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U157	The first question is put to the Minister by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm sorry if I'm going to continue with a little ironic. I think your reasoning on how the municipality of Mulgi is different from the municipality of Mulgimaa is worthy of a följeton or some pseudodissertation. Maybe you'll go into more detail about what the difference is. First of all, I find that it's about the same as the distinction between Harju and Harjumaa. There is no geographical point in Mulgi, unlike Võru and Võrumaa, where this difference is clear. Maybe you'll extend the subject to how seriously the Government of the Republic took the position of the House Name Council. Were there any spokespersons in the discussions, say, more educated cabinet members who supported the position of the House Name Council and those who were silent about it and who did not have a position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U159	Thank you, good questioner! Your question is very good in that, just as you pointed out the difference between Võru and Võrumaa, there is certainly a difference between Mulgi and Mulgimaa. I honestly say that it is very difficult to highlight administrative parallels between Mulgi and Mulgimaa. It really is Mulgimaa that covers a certain territory. As for the phonetic difference, I don't know how to point it out, because I'm not a philologist, but when you look at the site name board materials, this difference is very important and fundamental. This distinction was also made, for example, in the case of Hiiumaa, where the municipalities of Hiiu and Hiiumaa are. If Hiiu parish was to be given the name of Hiiumaa parish, the seat name council did not agree with this approach, but he agreed with Hiiu parish. There are certainly a great many competent people in this Council who can highlight this difference. But it seems to me that this difference is very important when I look at these materials. As far as the Government's decision on names is concerned, as you know, the Government of the Republic had to discuss the question of name in seven places, precisely because of the opinion of the Council on the Names of the Places. Five times, the Government of the Republic listened to the opinion of the House Names Council and decided on the basis of the Commission's opinion. In Hiiumaa and Mulgimaa a different decision was made, in all other cases the Commission's decision was dominant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U160	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm listening to you and wondering. In Mulgimaa, Viljandimaa, an administrative reform has been carried out taking into account the local wishes, opinion, position very accurately. How, then, does the government in Alutaguse do not take into account the wishes of the local people? Why are you two regions so different? On the other hand, have you heard that Mrs. Anu Raud, one of the great artists of our ancestors, the knowledge of Estonian folk art, has said that, after the administrative reform, Viljandi County is like a potato field from which wild boars have crossed? Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U162	Thank you. As far as this last statement is concerned, I have not heard it. I'll be honest with you, it's unpleasant to hear such a thing. But I think, as I suggested before the parliamentary majority, that, unfortunately, nothing can be done here anymore, decisions have been made. I think that it is up to all of us to complete the administrative reform, to give things more complexion and to make sure that in years' time we are not embarrassed, and we should not worry about what we have done together. As regards the difference between the two regions that you have pointed out, the fundamental difference arises from the law and lies in the fact that all the municipalities of Viljandi have met the criterion of 5000 inhabitants laid down by law and joined in view of its size. Some parishes decided to join even at the last moment, waiting until the last moment, but then the council made a positive decision. Viljandi County and Lääne County are the two counties where all the mergers took place according to the law. The leaders of the municipalities of Viljandi County were law-abiding and did exactly as the law prescribes, which cannot be said of Alutaguse local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U163	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U164	Good President! Good minister! I'll pick up where you finished. Being from Viljandi County myself, I honestly did not believe that there would be voluntary accession in the course of the administrative reform. The passions were great, but actually quite reasonable solutions were reached. Whether these limits are now correct, it can really be discussed, and certainly the limits are not definitive, there may still be major changes in this respect. But I'll ask you two things. This is where we talked about North Sakala. We have the Sakala Upland and that's why Sakala has a reasonable name, so the rest of it will be Central or Southern Sakala. Secondly, as far as Mulgimaa is concerned, Mulgimaa was actually ruined in 2013 and completely voluntarily. Anu Raud's home territory was also moved to Viljandi rural municipality at the time, which may not have made sense. But that's what I'm asking. I have not heard very much that other regions in both Mulgimaa and Sakala would have criticised the choice of the municipality of North Sakala and Mulgi. Has anything come to you about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U165	Thank you, good questioner! If you mean the name question, that information hasn't come to me. It seems that the neighbours are satisfied with this; they have not protested in this regard. The situation was different, for example, in the case of Lahemaa, where Kuusalu municipality expressed its opinion and expressed its resentment that one municipality wished to have the name of Lahemaa municipality. This opinion was also heard. However, no one has expressed a negative opinion on either of the aforementioned municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U166	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Mulgi rural municipality consisted of three municipalities and one city. Regrettably, they could not agree in any way where the rural municipality centre would be. You replied that the Accession Treaty did not have to agree that it could never be done in the future. The government so strongly decides on names, but it does not make decisions on matters of substance. Have you ever wondered why you couldn't agree on the location of the rural municipality centre? Why couldn't it be done? Secondly, where the government takes this optimism that suddenly this friendly agreement will come at some point. Maybe he won't, so what?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U168	Thank you for your question. I understand that the main reason was the situation where two centres, if I remember correctly, were competing between Abja and Karksi, and both of them expressed their desire to become the centre of the new rural municipality. One of them has been a strong center for years, the other being a developing center. I think that optimism is due to the fact that the new elected council already represents the whole municipality. Right now, there are two groups sitting at one table or, let's say, four groups each defending their position and everyone may find it very difficult to give in. In the future, it will be one local authority where, within the same limits, a single force has been chosen, clearly politically defined, because political parties and electoral federations represent the whole region, the division is carried out in accordance with other principles. The new government will certainly make the right decision, and the local people will certainly be able to deal very well with this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U169	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U170	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Where's the new government? The current government has been in office for quite a while, are you expecting a new government? With regard to changing the boundaries of the administrative reform, you and the Prime Minister have alluded that we are waiting for 1 January, that the law on administrative reform expires and that municipalities can do what they want to do together, disperse, make up something else, somebody joins. In the name question, do you also expect a new government to come to settle these name issues? Probably the most primary expression of identity is the new name of the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U171	Thank you. Thank you for your question. When I was talking about the government, I meant the local government, there are also governments that have full authority and the right to decide according to the will of the people, as expressed in the elections to the council. As regards the question of the name, the local authority has the right to decide on its name at any given moment in principle. There is a certain procedure for this to be done, the Council has to adopt the proposal, the Council has to approve it, and the Government will then approve it. This can also be done after the end of the administrative reform, if the new council does not agree with the old name and wishes to change it, it will go through all these procedures, that is possible. Due to the autonomy of the local government, the local government can decide the matters of identity at its own discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U172	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U173	Mr President! Dear Minister, Members of the Riigikogu! I'd like to develop a little bit of that Anu Raud image of a mixed potato field where wild boars or savages, I didn't understand, have crossed over. It is not quite the case that the situation that has arisen there is not criticised. This image itself is also a criticism, and it has quite certainly been criticised by Mr Jaak Pihlak, Director of the Viljandi Museum, for example. He has done so in many articles and very passionately, and he has actually proved that the inheritance is not very well taken into account here. There are four municipalities: two of them, whose names have been criticised in this inquiry, and Mulgi and North Sakala, and then Viljandi and Viljandi. I was left with a bit of a halfway point when I introduced the question, that I really did not want to blame the merging municipalities for this outcome. They have played within the limits of the rules of the game given by the various governments at their best discretion. There are situations where there is a need to negotiate one, another, third, actually very many aspects, and perhaps one of the most annoying things about such talks from the inside is the question of the name. Very lightly, these decisions have first been made that the name of any of the merging municipalities is not appropriate. Maybe it doesn't fit either, because the geographical association that arises is no longer quite adequate with that name. However, all these situations have arisen as a result of the logic of this merger that compliance with the criterion of 5000 inhabitants is also required where there are few assumptions for its fulfilment where exceptions would have been reasonable. To speak here of the free will of the local governments is, in my opinion, inappropriate, because the rules of the game have still been presented by the government. We had an election union conference here a week and a half ago where Võru's long-time local government character, Tõnu Jõgi, is perhaps now the vice-president of the council, expressed in a way that we have had such a strange path with the administrative reform, where the model of making counties as a whole a single municipality has not been taken, and this model of parish or smaller units has not been kept. There has been some sort of intermediate, sometimes such a small way of monster, the problem of which is that it actually combines both possible models, i.e. the worst qualities of smaller municipalities and larger, county-sized municipalities. And that's where the troubles start. I have also heard quite a lot of these points of view that it is not going to be that the next step, perhaps, is that as a county in Viljandi County, there will be a local government and some service points, public authorities or whatever. In any case, this administrative reform as a whole is becoming thirsty for correction of errors. There is no chosen consistent path. One of the sad misdemeanours is that, just as a local decision, the 'democratic decision-making mechanism' is the object of naming places, which I do not think is very reasonable. Estonia has historically been covered by place names, place names have had a clear structure, they have responded to geographical locations. To create now a situation in which baptisms are to take place in places that have not historically been the case in the past, then it will be like the Fast Crosses, that these Bruno-Benno-Bernhards and Columbus-Christostomas will come! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U174	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U175	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Actually, it's really good to move on from here. As many people have said in this Chamber, this is the first stage, the administrative-territorial reform, the administrative reform, we are only starting to get to the next major decisions. Yes, the names and borders are important, but I will stick to what I have said here many times, especially in the example of Viljandi County, that no name will ruin a man, let alone the municipalities. There have also been very different names in Viljandi County: Sakalamaa, Viljandimaa, Suur-Viljandi County, which includes Põltsamaa, Tõrva, both regions have been mentioned here today, and there are others. When it comes to North Sakala, it really isn't the North Sakala Upland, it's part of the Upland. But just as Viljandimaa has been called Sakalamaa, Viljandimaa has also been regarded as the whole of Mulgimaa. The city of Viljandi is well known in many places outside Viljandi, Viljandi has been regarded as the capital of Mulgimaa, which it is not. But these are the kind of badges. I'm glad that Mulgi's name survived. That is why I also asked the Minister if anyone had resented it, because I have not heard it. Even Tõrgi, who wanted to take Mulg's name, is only happy that Mulg's name was preserved. And why can't the further development of the administrative reform take the direction that at least the rest of Mulgimaa, which did not join the municipality of Viljandi, can form a larger municipality of Mulgimaa or Mulg? In fact, in 2013 the borders of Mulgimaa were violated without any coercion from outside, when Paistu and part of the then Pärt municipality joined Viljandi rural municipality, where the home of Anu Raud is also located. That wasn't such a good idea. Knowing these people and their future development, at that time it was the idea that we would definitely and quickly join Viljandi. I personally opposed this as a city person, and I think it is a good thing that the urban settlement was preserved there. As far as the county borders are concerned, Jüri Raidla, in the State Reform Committee, where we sit side by side with Küllik, said that a mistake was made in his own time, but he did not say with certainty that a mistake was made when the constitution was written into the parish and the city, but was not written into the county. I myself have so far been opposed to this county, because if we were to open up within the current borders, which in the current Estonian circumstances has still been a very weak administrative unit, neither money nor functions, to the level of the county, then we would have greatly weakened the local side. So that's what it's been like. As far as Kõpu is concerned, Kõpu is actually linking one very important thing to Suure-Jaani, which is one of the pearls of the region, or Soomaa National Park. They have it in common. Kõpu is so small, while very well preserved center, church and everything else works. They wouldn't be better off in Viljandi. They are still on the periphery, they are still inside a large unit and maybe in the Grand Jaan it is even better in this sense that Suure-Jaani is a smaller municipality, and they have been given relative independence with this accession agreement for at least four years. So all these things are relative, and the names are definitely the kind of things you can discuss. And let the opinions of Jaak Pihlak, director of the Viljandi Museum be mentioned. One of his Sakala columns said that we named Halliste-Karksi Municipality did not find any supporters. We must also consider that Jaak, my good colleague at the Viljandi Vallavoli Council, is himself a politician. So his opinions are often politically spiced by historical things or vice versa. I guess we all have that kind of thing and that kind of connection. So the administrative-territorial reform will go its way to the end. I repeat, however, that it is of the utmost importance that we decide these next steps, i.e. the functions of financing, quickly. Then they would be the municipalities that are emerging, strong and powerful, and could do something concretely. Surely they can also return to the borders; they always have. The administrative reform has never ended, borders have been moved one way and the other way, so obviously these movements will last for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U176	Would the minister like to come to the chair again? No, I don't. In that case, I shall end my fourth inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U177	The next item is the inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsep, Külliki Kübarsep, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõmme and Andres Ammas on 8 March 2017 about the problems of administrative reform in Tartu County at the Peipsi roll. The number of the inquiry is 328. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Küllik's Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U178	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We really submitted an inquiry into the situation of the Tartumaa Peipsi roll. Here's the situation. By November last year, the municipality of Vara, Peipsiääre and Alatskivi agreed that they would join voluntarily. Their concern, however, was that they couldn't get 5,000 inhabitants together. However, they did not despair and still presented their proposal to the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic made such a decision that those municipalities willing to join voluntarily should still be forced to join the town of Kallaste and the rural municipality of Jõgeva county Pala. In addition, it is planned that the municipality of Tabivere will be forced to join the municipality of Tartu. The problem is that the economic situation of Tabivere and the cities of Kallaste is so bad that no one wants to join them. Everyone knows that then the financial base of these municipalities will have to be dealt with, but the motivation for this is probably not ready. In their terms, the punitive measure is also that, although they are willing to join voluntarily, they will be deprived of the accession grant. In November last year, the villages of Vara parish made a proposal to the local government of Alajõe, Kauda, Keressaare, Kusma, Kuusiku, Matjama, Mustametsa, Papiaru, Pilpaküla, Selgis, Sookaldus, Särla, Undi, Vara, Välgi, Apte, Meoma and Koosa that they should join the rural municipality of Tartu instead, as their natural area of editing remains more in the direction of Tartu. The rest could then go towards Peipsiääre and the municipality of Alatskivi. Vara Vallavolikogu took the view that they supported the village proposal and submitted this proposal to the municipality of Tartu. However, when reading the minutes of the Tartu Vallavolikogu, including at the end of January, it turns out that unfortunately they have not made any decisions, the chairman of the parish council has simply stated that such a proposal has been made. In his view, no position should be formulated, and the council remained so. This is certainly something that we will also look at from the Minister in the course of this inquiry. The questions addressed to the Minister mainly concern the situation that has arisen as a result of the government's proposal for a forced merger. What should the merged municipality do with the debt burden of the city of Kallaste? What is the actual situation? How has historical-cultural parish border issues been abandoned again and what is the possible answer to villages? So let's look forward to it, good minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U179	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm happy to answer your question. The issues are really very important and still need to be addressed. It's a good thing you can discuss them in this hall. As for the situation in the town of Kallaste, the picture is really a little sad and sad. It is certainly not the people who are in power there now. In this city, power has been abused for years, and I do not know why no one has been held accountable. Once I've met the current leaders, they'll only be able to account for the debts they've caused to the city, but no one can identify what's been done with the money, except maybe a boilerhouse that's been invested in. In general, the picture is very sad and unhappy. As regards specific figures, the total amount of Kallaste debt liabilities at the end of 2016 was EUR 532000, which represents a net debt burden of 55%. As of two months 2017, the city's net debt plus overdraft is around 64%. This is slightly higher than the 60% debt limit, but basically it fits within the limits prescribed. I'm sorry, I forgot to read the question! I just figured it out. 'What are the debts of the Kallas and what are the solutions? Since accession requires debt sharing and that is unfair, what information and support do you provide as a minister to the local governments joining Kallas? ' That's a very interesting question. I also took out what the town of Kallaste would get if it joined. And as the specialists say, financing in the event of a merger would be EUR 276530. This means that if the other three local authorities that joined each other to open the Peipsiääre had immediately joined the capital of Kallaste City, the debt burden could have been reduced almost twice, even slightly more than twice. The city of Kallaste proposed to all three municipalities on time, but unfortunately Alatskivi, Peipsiääre and Vara municipality did not accept the proposal, although they knew that because of the territorial distribution, the city of Kallaste would not be able to join anyone other than Alatskivi, as the town of Kallaste is surrounded by the territory of Alatskivi. They went this way, that the government itself would unite the city of Kallaste with these three parishes. Our answer is very simple: if the merger had taken place in a voluntary phase, at least half of the debt would have been written off. When it comes to the general debt burden, there are quite a few local governments in Estonia whose debt burden is 60%. In itself, the debt burden of the municipalities is not 60% of anything unprecedented or extraordinary, but I think that is the right question in the context of this debt burden and the proportion of the things that have been done. Indeed, in the town of Kallas, this part of the things done is clearly very small. That's where the emotion comes from, that power must have been a little abused. The second question: 'How do you define political responsibility for long-standing irresponsible city management on the shores? " All leaders have been elected democratically in the town of Kallaste, and they have been elected by citizens. Were people confused with beautiful stories, or are there reasons for general apathy? What exactly is the reason why I cannot say this, but those people who have long run the city of Kallas are clearly responsible for the fact that the city's debt is high, but things have been done minimally. Question 3: 'What sustainable solutions do you see with the Kallas? ' The goal of administrative reform is one and clear: to make local authorities stronger, to increase their competence, to increase their decision-making. We hope that these objectives will be implemented and met. When a new high-capacity municipality is formed, management capacity will clearly increase and the quality of the services provided will also improve in Kallaste city. Question 4: Has a solution based on the boundaries of the historical-cultural parish been considered in solving the problem of Vara-Pepsiääre-Alatskivi-Pala-Kallaste, where the area of Kodavere parish would form the area of Kodavere parish and the western part of Vara rural municipality would remain in the rural municipality of Tartu as the area of Maarja-Magdaleena parish? ' The voluntary stage was joined by three municipalities: Alatskivi, Peipsiääre and Vara. The parishes formed one whole, agreed on all matters on the basis of the sections of the law, on the name, the centre and the merging territory, and submitted a proposal for accession to the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic approved this proposal in accordance with all procedures and will consider the territory of the three parishes as a whole from this point on. All other changes can only come from the municipality or on the initiative of the municipality. Speaking of changes here, they had to be made by now, and their initiators should have been the same parishes. The municipalities did not express this wish, so there was no reason for the government to restructure in the region either. Question 5: "Is the merging Peipsiääre municipality [... ] could be an exception in terms of administrative reform if part of Vara rural municipality's villages decide to join in the direction of the municipality of Tartu and join the Peipsiääre [... ] there are just under 5,000 residents in the municipality? " All changes relating to the transition of villages from one municipality to another should have been approved by the council by 15 April. This has not been done for Varah municipality. The municipality of Vara decided to remain whole. I know the discussions were, and some of the villages in Vara municipality expressed such a desire, but there was no change. I guess that's been asked before, but today we can't talk about it because the time is up. I understand that all five questions have been answered at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U181	Thank you. There are also some specific questions for you. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U182	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm gonna ask you about that last question. You argued that since the municipality of Vara did not submit the village's wish to the county governor by 15 April, it cannot be dealt with. But looking at the documentation, it has been rather the case that the municipality of Tartu has not responded to Vara municipality. The Chancellor of Justice has thoroughly worked through the case of Puka rural municipality and the case of Sauga rural municipality and he has just pointed out that all the proposals made by the villages during the previous year can be dealt with. In my opinion, the municipality of Tartu has broken the rules because they have not responded specifically to the proposal within three months. How, then, can it be said in a uniform manner that the criterion is not met? I'm gonna ask you another question right now. Just today, I was communicating with the people of Vara municipality. No question has been announced about the government's proposal. What happens if there's no questioning in Varah?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U183	Thank you for your question. I will answer both questions. We would begin by saying that if villages wish to move from one municipality to another, both municipalities must agree. Just as Vara vald must agree that the villages are leaving, Tartu Municipality must also agree that the villages are coming to the municipality of Tartu. If the municipality of Tartu has not dealt with this proposal, has not responded or has not expressed its support in any other way, it cannot be considered as tacit consent either. There is a procedure and the municipality must state clearly that it is willing to accept the villages. Since this has not been done, the procedure can be considered not to have been completed, it should have been done by 15 April. The second question I will answer is that a survey must be carried out on the government's proposal. The survey is conducted either by the local authorities or, if they do not, by the county governor. If I remember correctly, the law says it must be done by June 15th or even June 13. Yeah, June 13th, if memory doesn't fool me. If you don't, the mayor will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U184	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have this question for you: have you dealt with this problem of Kallas and talked to the leaders there also on the 'party line'? I think the support community of the Centre Party has been quite large there. But these people have also changed their political affiliation. What is the political responsibility of Mr. Punkka and others now? Has the Centre Party played a role in the fact that it has become so sad there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U186	Thank you for your question. If the Centre Party has anything to do with this power, I don't know that connection. I believe that the Centre Party is neither involved nor in any way involved in this activity. History makes an assessment of each activity. I can only make a negative assessment of what has happened before, but unfortunately I can't change anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U187	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U188	I'd tell Andres the answer to your question is yes. I've been running for office, love of heaven, three or four times, and I know exactly who I'm up against, who Kulkov is and how this thing went. So, yes, of course it's a matter for the Centre Party and the IRL. The supremacy was in the IRL. But what I'm trying to say is that in the current situation of the Kallaste, the governments of the Republic have been guilty since Savisaare and ending up with Ratas. Please tell me, would it be fair to share this debt, which is due to the governments of the Republic of Kallaste, that we have discussed with Mihkel Oviir in this hall, between the surrounding municipalities, Alatskivi and others who are guilty of nothing? Or is it now a time when the Government of the Republic as such or the Republic of Estonia as such should take responsibility, including financial responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U189	Honourable questioner! I do not agree with your labelling, the people you mentioned have very little to do with the Centre Party. There were people there, not parties. The current mayor, I salute him, is in a difficult situation, but he's trying and acting. We respect him. Let him do his best. With regard specifically to your question, I would once again say that what has happened is unfair. But as I said, this debt could very easily have been reduced twice. Should also have called the Kallaste immediately to the negotiating table, voluntarily join the Kallaste and then half the debt would have been extinguished. If, now, the government takes responsibility, as you said, for the abuse of local authority and gives money, what will other local government leaders say? There are 212 other local governments in Estonia who then ask why abuse of power is encouraged and the state pays for it, but for those who do their business honestly and properly, according to their best skills, nothing is paid. I think that would be a little unfair to the others. But, of course, I think it is right that this situation should be alleviated somehow. If there are opportunities in the future, even in the form of individual investments, we will certainly see that the city of Kallaste also has additional resources to improve infrastructure or its objects. Small places such as the city of Kallaste are very often the most affected by EU action, because the European Union's financing model, together with the impact criterion, is clearly opposed to small places where the impact of the investment involves a very small number of people. I think that by looking for additional investment opportunities, the city of Kallaste can be helped, and I think that it is up to us all to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U190	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There in Tartu County, negotiations were held for a very long time in the municipalities of Vara, Alatskivi and Peipsiääre and Kallaste. Then we knew the shores were in debt. Pala vald did not join Jõgeva County. He's the one who took out the courts that failed him. And for some reason, someone has now run down this unity. Can you tell me whose side this initiative came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U192	Unity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U193	This common cause, which had been agreed upon, has now been thrown into trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U194	It seems to me that there was no quarrel, there was a planned action. The three municipalities that joined each other agreed on their terms, considered their situation and different options. I had the impression that everyone was acting very consciously. The leader of the track pursued his goal and acted in his direction. Kallaste and his leadership clearly remained an orphan in this situation, while the other three major powers did not want to join Kallaste. But apparently they had their own vision of things, their own tactics and their own desire. This financial side still stays up here, but that's the price they have to pay for their tactical choices. I think it might have been different, but they made that choice, or the merger took place there in most people's vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U195	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U196	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! My question also comes about money and debts or, in fact, about agreeing and not agreeing. I very much share the view that I cannot quite politically judge who is guilty and who is innocent, especially if we are going to write off debts here or not. Kallaste is a very small municipality, 870 people. The potential new municipality has 5700 inhabitants. This loan, as you said yourself, is relatively small. Has it been assessed how high the loan burden of the new merged municipality will be and how the Kallaste loan will affect it? Does the government and, perhaps, the municipalities on the ground, even the county government, have more clear reasons for the rejection of this accession proposal by those who should add to the Kallas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U197	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it's appreciated, but unfortunately, I don't have those numbers with me. I'm sure you can pick up those sums. Once again, this 60% loan burden of Kallaste is not an emergency situation; in the Republic of Estonia there are also higher loan burdens. I can't say for these three or four parishes in particular right now. Once it was about Pala's debt burden, which I think is within 12-13%. I might be wrong. I'm just trying to remember these numbers. But all of this is very easy to find out and draw out the overall picture. If there's a particular interest in it, it's possible to get that information. As for those people who decided not to carry out the merger as if it were logical and as I told you, I do not think it is right to bring out persons. I say once again that the three parishes that joined each other - Vara, Alatskivi and Peipsiääre parishes - and their leaders decided to agree with each other, even though they understood very well that Kallaste would join them in the final stage or in the next stage. Once again, perhaps from a financial point of view, their decision made sense. What motives they had, it's kind of hard for me to understand, but I'm sure they had some motives. What they are, it's better to ask them. Whether they're right or wrong, there's no one answer to that. It's their vision, and I suppose it's very right from their point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U198	However, each of my fellow Members has one question in the format of inquiries. So, unfortunately, my colleague Igor Gräzin cannot ask a second time. Do those who do not have the first question asked want to ask? If there's a procedural question, please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U199	I have been asked here whether you are giving up your speech, and the opportunity is to say yes or no. How am I supposed to press? I did not give up the speech, but I did not get the speech. What button do you want me to press?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U200	If you want a word, press the 'Word' key and you will get that word, unless your home and work procedures do not provide for this statement. I hope you have an exhaustive answer. Thank you, Minister Korb. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First, please speak to Küllik's Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U201	Good vice chairman! Thank you, too, for your answers to the Minister. It is not just a financial issue, but a 'inter-community issue'. It is the Russian community and the Estonian community who are taking care of Peipsi, and from a historical point of view, this meeting has not been the most credible. When it comes to communicating with people, it is generally a matter of giving up, lack of faith and trust in government rulers. Here is an example of Vara rural municipality, where villages have once again been mobilized. In the case of administrative reform, parallels can be drawn with the way in which settlement banks have developed in Tallinn through contrasts. For example, the Telliskivi Society, where I belong, was activated in 2010 when the city of Tallinn wanted to expand the residential area of the paid parking area, not the business area. Of course, the municipality had to give in, and the inhabitants of the settlement were delighted. At the same time, there is a little bit of a scratch on why we have to provoke active citizenship through confrontations and not through positive collective actions. When you talk to people in Sauga municipality, you can also feel that we have at least got to know each other more and that we are putting together common lists in order to learn from this negativity and move on. But the question is still what's the point of this coercion. In so many responses neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister wanted to take responsibility. Yes, the government raised arguments on one issue or another, made these and the conclusions that led to this decision. It's just that they put us on a table, we didn't take one, the other or the third option to consider, we took the first one, and that's the way it's supposed to be. This is not forward-looking or long-term action. Especially when I want to remind you once again that we are not doing this administrative-territorial reform just to last until 1 January and only to survive the municipal elections that we are going to have on 15 October, but we are doing this to ensure that it lasts longer than a year. It is therefore very important that the government, if it has taken the lead, also think about local people and their real way of life, needs and opportunities. The Minister here tried to make it clear that the merger grant could have covered these debt figures, but others do not mainly cover debts with the merger grant, but create new values, create new investment opportunities. I don't think that's a responsible response from the government. And the fact that, as far as I know, the municipality of Tartu has not legally responded to Vara Vallavolikogu, who represented the villages, I do not believe that it is competent. The government should ask where the decision is and what the sanction is if they are not answered. After all, the village of Vara municipality and the municipality itself were thus deprived of the opportunity to present a substantive position to the county governor by 15 April. This is not polite to other municipalities where similar processes have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U202	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U203	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, Külliki, you and I are going to do the same thing and the same place at the property, Koosa. I have nothing left but to say thank you for saying this, which helps me save time. By the way, eight minutes after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U204	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U205	You know, friends, I'm telling you about Kallas. In short, if you drive down the highway and turn left on the way from Tallinn, the first thing you see is that Eduard Tubin was born there. After that, what happens? After that, it happens that not civilization is missing, but a negative civilization is created there. I mean, it's an active lack of civilization. What's the problem? I agree, actually this money thing, everything money gets is cheap and, frankly, the hell with it. But there is such a mess that I would like to say that if my friend Hardo Aasmäe wrote 'Abitsy of Infinite Countries', there is also an encyclopedia of meaningless cities and meaningless municipalities. That goes for the Kallas. In fact, behind it is not only the Estonian and Russian community, although it is also, there are even more old believers, Orthodox, plus Soviet-minded, it is then Nukka and so on. If we recall that we don't really want to talk about these things, it's the kind of two-party thing that's happening on the shores in the summer of 1941, in 1944, 1945, 1946, these bloodwork are remembered. And it will be remembered through generations. The children and grandchildren of those days are there. Although there's a Soviet monument somewhere, there's this, there's this, there's this, there's another, there's a third, it's actually dead on both sides. And those atrocities that were there, we don't want to talk about them, let's not talk about it, let's celebrate the anniversary, but we need to know that it's all there objectively. It's probably a comic addition now, but if we start listing the chiefs of Kallaste city, who have no criminal record, I don't think there's much going on, including, let's say, this kind of attempted murder. Luckily, that's not true now, I mean, the leader of the town of Kallaste confessed to the attempted kidnapping, and that's what remained. In short, it's like a softer option. The Chairman of the Kallas City Council recently received his share in court, and Nukka also had an old criminal case. In short, this is the situation. When I named Mihkel Oviir, Mihkel Oviir had the same question. Hey, come here with your control, see what's going on! Oviir tried once, sometimes tried again and said: "Can't, the constitution is sometimes." Self-governing, self-governing, self-governing, we cannot invade. And Mihkel Oviir and I, as two lawyers, had a philosophical question: what do we do with a government that can't control itself? And that is the question that the country must answer now. By the way, there are other aspects to this issue. Oh, my God, the construction sites of the Kallas, a slide designed for one ship, Kreutzwald. Ilves was there and the tapes were cut and it was tomorrow! Remember, by the way, the theory of supremacy that planes are going to land there and there's going to be a Las Vegas casino. And in order to stay in the room, the old cultural house was burned down. No one's taken the suspicion of arson. Look what's going on in there! And now we're saying we're taking away their debt. That's not the solution. I wanted to tell you all about it because I don't have a personal thing. As cheated wives say, I gave you my youth and my best years. That is what I, as a politician, can say about the Kallas. I've been dealing with this Kallaste for 15 years, and my maximum vote was four. Worst part of it is that you call: Igor Nikolayevich, come on, we have a problem! I said, why me, you've been voting. Then they said no, we vote for that, we trust you. [[Laughter.]] So, what do I do with this trust? Now, finally, after 15 years, I have politically achieved the opportunity to talk about the shores of this remote control. This is my achievement, my hour of glory! Look what I'm gonna say. Mika Korb knows we're getting along, and I really like him. He got himself into a lot like this. But good boy, nichevo, you can do it! I would like to emphasise one other thing. Kallaste is a matter for the eastern border of NATO. If we're talking about green men and other things like that, God, why would they come here again? That's enough, it's here. Why hasn't the Department of Defense and the Defense Police ever been interested? I'm not accusing them of corruption, I'm not saying they're enemies of the people. But that's the eastern border. Oh, my God, come on! I think that if we don't solve what you said, a community problem or this crazy mess behind which is both corruption and blood, and everything else, then this piece has gone to our country, and maybe he is gone. By the way, the place where the mayor picked us up with Jaanus Peace Mountain, and then you'll see there's a gun next to the transmission. And when the Peace Mountain, the old security guard, asks, "Why or how, they say it's nothing, the bullet isn't ironed." That's what we have there. Now this is where the Estonian language gets confused with my nervousness. I mean, the Kallas really need something about which Russian has the words vnešneje survlenije. This means that the country is running something similar to Paldiski. And we somehow solved this problem. I think that for most of the people of Kallas, as well as for the well-being, preservation and all of this of the Kallas, two things are needed in the Kalas: he needs firm financial support or at least a substantial reduction in the debt burden; it is essential, and at the same time he needs the help of the state, how to say, now, to repair wounds, build a community, in short, to move forward friendlyly. And it's possible. Take a step forward, look at the same Peipsiõert, yes, there are problems, but they can handle it. Look at Cosa, there's the other side of Vara, yeah, it's hard and crappy, but they can handle it. So it's not a curse, there's a solution here. And this is a unique problem with no analogy. I'm really glad if all this long hustling was going to be good on the shores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U206	Speaking on the spot, Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U207	Thank you, Mr President. After Igor's colorful adventures in Kallaste, I cannot help but wonder that throughout this whole discussion, the historical name Kodavere, which should actually be the historic name of the uniting formation to which Alatskivi, Pala, the city of Kallaste go, has not been heard. By the way, one of our contemporary Estonian poets, unfortunately Mari Vallisoo, has come from Kodavere and has written in Kodavere. The second remark relates to this municipality of Vara. I understand that there is one great historical-cultural difference between the region of Koosa and the region of Vara. And that's because of the parish. The villages of Vara and its surroundings have historically belonged to the parish of Tartu Maarja-Magdaleena. In 1977 they were connected to Koosa. People still say that, for some of the reasons Igor referred to above, this historical memory and everything that was born after World War II have not grown together so far. And one of our problems is that administrative reform absolutely does not provide a solution to cases where a mistake has already been made. We make more mistakes and we don't fix past mistakes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U208	There are no more requests to speak, I will stop looking at this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U209	Members of the Riigikogu Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm and Andres Ammas have submitted the sixth and last question today. The topic is the problems of administrative reform in Luunja, Tartu County. The number of the inquiry is 329. I ask Krista Aru to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U210	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Good minister! We have now reached Tartu County with the issue of administrative reform. Luunja parish outside Tartu, a very good parish, very capable, successful and ambitious, would like to maintain its independence, but there will be another 5000 border. In the Luunja parish, all residents are counted, but there are only 4,251, not 5,000 in total. And now the government has decided to join the municipality of Luunja with Tartu. I sincerely hope, and I think that all the Tartians hope that in the meantime, in the process of merging it, the city of Tartu will not be erased. The idea that the city of Tartu must, in the meantime, cease its activities because of this coercion has really run through the press and then start again. But it was sometimes a bad joke. The problem is that Luunya would like to remain independent. Why this distinction is not granted to Luunya is incomprehensible and justified only by this magical 5,000 border. If we want the administrative reform to succeed and become operational in accordance with the good will of the entire country and of all local governments here, we should show more flexibility. I dare not offer here whether the current government of Tartu will rejoice or grieve that Tartu will also have swamps, farmland and pastures. But Luunja is certainly the parish that will see that its present population, which is 4251, will increase in the near future. And if the Prime Minister here claimed that in Alutaguse parish, where there are 5040 inhabitants, as the age curve rises, surely the population will be reduced, then why do we not take this curve into account for Luunja parish? So the questions relate precisely to the municipality of Luunja in Tartu County. On the other hand, there is also a very fundamental question here, which I hope the Minister has been able to think about, because an inquiry has already been made on 8 March. This key issue is precisely what we call these local government units in our constitution. Thank you, Minister, in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U211	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U212	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Thank you for the questions you have asked in your inquiry. Administrative reform will certainly create quite a lot of emotions and tension and, of course, every issue in this Chamber of the Riigikogu will have to be dealt with thoroughly. I think that's what we're gonna do today. I also listened to the Prime Minister's discussion with you in the first half of the day. As you can see, discussions are different. There are no situations of overlap. Estonia is so different, each situation differs from others in its nature, its content and needs a special approach. Can't measure all municipalities with one stick and say yes, 5000 is really the right limit. We are very often accused of this 5000, but this is the number established by the legislator and must be based on it. I say again: 85% of the local governments in Estonia have come from this number, from this border. Those who have not followed it hope that the government will take the next steps, but the steps that the government will take later will take according to its own opinion. This is what this administrative reform has become. But let's go to Luunya in particular. I will start right from the beginning: 'What criteria, apart from the requirement of 5 000 inhabitants, do you think the municipality of Luunja, which has a population of 4251, is unsustainable? ' Once again, as a member of the government, I cannot discuss whether the municipality is sustainable or not sustainable. The law provides for a limit of 5,000 inhabitants. In the event that even 18 inhabitants are missing, as happened in the Häädemeeste area, the government is forced to make a proposal to join. And this proposal is made without discussing whether the municipality is sustainable or not sustainable. The following question: 'How does the municipality of Luunja meet the criteria for the successful functioning of § 7 (5) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act, such as living conditions for residents, the feeling of belonging, the quality of providing public services and other features listed there? Please name the problems if they occur. " Once again, in terms of administrative territorial organisation, the Administrative Division Act does not apply at the moment, and § 7 does not apply either. Until the end of the new year, i.e. administrative reform, the Administrative Reform Act is in force and according to the Administrative Reform Act, 5000 residents are required. Exceptions can be made in three cases. First, if the territory is over 100 square kilometers. Secondly, an exception can be granted if there is a sea island and, thirdly, if the municipality has 3500 inhabitants and the municipality is located in Setumaa. These are the three exceptions. In other places, the government may not apply the merger, so let's say we haven't reached this stage yet, and discuss whether the municipality meets certain criteria or doesn't meet certain criteria. The government has proposed and this proposal must be taken into account. The municipality of Luunja must negotiate with the city of Tartu in order to successfully conduct the merger. If you ask for my personal position, I think this is the right decision. This decision is due to the fact that the municipality of Luunja is a rural municipality with a local character, i.e. the rural municipality is located next to the centre and the services are clearly infiltrated with the services of the centre. People in the parish go to the city to use services, and they also work there. If you ask me where this line runs, how much people's lives have been written into the vast city, I'm saying a lot. Practically all of Jõgevamaa says that for them the centre is the city of Tartu, and I think the city of Tartu is the centre for Luunja municipality. 'What is the population curve of the municipality of Luunja? In view of the current growth rate, how quickly will the limit of 5 000 inhabitants be exceeded? ' Yes, the population curve of the municipality of Luunja is a positive trend, the municipality of Luunja is developing, but the municipality of Luunja is clearly developing at the expense of the city of Tartu. The people who live in Luunja municipality and go to work in the city of Tartu are on average stronger than the taxpayer in Tartu. The same situation is with Ülenurme, but Ülenurme fulfils 5,000 criteria. Whether it's a particular problem in this situation or a plus, that's what time shows. 'For what reasons did the Government of the Republic decide to force Luunja municipality to join the city of Tartu? As far as we know, the original position of the expert committee was to join Luunja Tartu municipality. As the Luunja people have had difficulty getting to the full view of the expert committee's position, we ask you to forward this document to us. ' I must say that the expert opinion is an internal document from the Commission. The Commission proposed to connect the municipality of Luunja to the city of Tartu. The panel also considered the option of joining the municipality of Tartu, which was presented as an alternative proposal, but the final decision was still to connect the municipality of Luunja with the city of Tartu. And that is the final opinion of the Commission. The main reason why the city of Tartu in particular, I have already mentioned it. In addition, it could be said that the villages of Lokkva and Veebri have clearly grown together with the city of Tartu. Even in nature, it is very difficult to understand where the border runs between the city and the rural municipality. This is one good example of how the city and the municipality have grown together. 'How do you see the protection of the local community in a situation where a municipality with 4251 inhabitants joins a city of 96894 inhabitants? In this case, are separate constituencies formed to ensure that the local community's voice extends to the council of a large city? " In the interests of developing local life, various lists can be created, and certainly people who have been elected to the council in this area can represent the interests of the inhabitants of their region. But if you think about it more, the municipality of Luunya had the opportunity to defend its interests better than the negotiations could have been held at a voluntary stage. Then there really would have been much more room for agreement and could have been more able to present their terms on how to join. Such negotiations have not been conducted and, as you know, no final solution has been reached. 'What practical problems are caused by the fact that the city of Tartu will be part of a rural municipality that includes agricultural areas and extends to the Emajõe-Suursoo protected area? ' Personally, I think the difference between urban areas is very positive. The city always needs territory for further development. The city is developing when large areas belong to it. I think that integrating the municipality of Luunja into the development plans of the city of Tartu will lead to positive development throughout the region. This will certainly allow new developments, including infrastructure upgrades. I think it all has a positive effect on this region. The last question: 'Do you consider it right to amend the Constitution in the section of § 155, which says that local government units are municipalities and cities? " The question was also raised by the heir in his speech. I'll be honest with you, we haven't had time to think about it. I am of the opinion that for the time being, it is enough to put the wording on which we are talking about rural municipalities and cities. There is no great need to change this, although once the administrative reform has come to a final conclusion, a new administrative territorial division needs to be carefully considered. That was the answer. I'm ready for further discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U213	You have questions too. First, please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U214	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Let me remind you of your appearances during the first few weeks of ministerhood. Then you gave the impression that there would probably be differences and that 5,000 wouldn't be that decisive. How have your views developed in the intervening months? Have you not been able to do what you want to do, or is it because you have now become a resolute advocate of the 5,000 borders and want to make the distinctions quite a minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U215	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I have expressed such opinions, and I still feel that way. But each situation needs to be looked at separately. As for the municipality of Luunja, I will bring you a parallel with the city of Tallinn, where I have worked for a long time. There is clearly a very similar situation here. On the entrance roads of Tallinn, you can see in the morning and in the evening how many people consume Tallinn's services. They move out of town at night and drive into town in the mornings. I am a clear supporter of such a solution to the borders of large cities. I think that if a relatively wealthy taxpayer lives outside the city and consumes services in the city, this whole living environment must be uniform. And in this particular case, I have a relatively firm opinion and I dare to express it. Luunja municipality is clearly integrated with the city of Tartu. A merger will give the city the opportunity to develop its life through new territory. It is obvious that the municipality of Luunja is currently living on the account of the city of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U216	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I don't understand a damn thing now. You spoke about the common living environment of Luunja and Tartu. You might even understand that. But I remember other examples, especially the villages of Sauga municipality and Pärnu. What about that common living environment? It's the other way around. And in the case of the Luunya, you will solve the issue like the big city centrally: must be joined! I do not understand the lack of consistency to which the solutions you offer refer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U218	Thank you, good questioner! We act within this framework and in accordance with the possibilities that the legislator has created for us. If we are to make decisions about those municipalities that do not fulfil the criterion, we have been given this opportunity. As far as Sauga's situation is concerned, this is a case in which the legislator has given us no other option than to have local authorities agree themselves. I would remind you that the law provides for one situation in which a government may move villages from one municipality to another, but it can only be implemented in two cases: if the villages themselves wish to cross and if the transitioning municipality or city does not fulfil the 5000 criteria. According to the law, the opportunities granted to the government are very narrow in the case of village transfers. As far as the common environment is concerned, yes, I believe that the municipality of Luunja must belong to Tartu. But as far as Sauga is concerned, it is clear that there is one situation now, after the elections, another. In this situation too, the government will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U219	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The concerns of the residents of Luunja municipality are very understandable, as Luunja municipality is very well equipped with social welfare, kindergarten and school organisation, and care for its people. They fear that their voice will not speak to the city of Tartu, where there are almost 100,000 inhabitants. The city of Tartu has its own interests and preferential development plans. However, my specific question is this: is the expert panel's assessment a classified document so that it is not accessible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U221	Absolutely not! This document is not classified. This is a working document, and if you want to look at it, I will check with my colleagues on how this is possible. I'll try to get it for you. I hope it's not so classified that it can't be distributed. A member of the Riigikogu should certainly have the right to read it. As for the concerns of the residents of Luunja, whether their voice will sound on the city council of Tartu, I am sure it will. Tartu is not such a huge city. Yes, certain changes are taking place, but in my opinion, the city of Tartu is quite well caring for its inhabitants and fulfilling all the tasks assigned to it by law. These are the risks associated with administrative reform, but they can be mitigated by good work once the administrative reform has been implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U222	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In answer to the above question, as you said, I do not know whether I have heard correctly or not, about the fact that the municipality of Luunja must belong to the city of Tartu. It scratched my ear. I myself have been a resident of the municipality of Luunja and lived in the village of Lokkva. Yeah, I agree there's no limit between town and parish. But this is not the case with the entire municipality, it is only in two regions where there is a very close connection with the city of Tartu. When talking about coercion, were other options considered? The city of Tartu is not the only option for Luunja. There are 5100 inhabitants of Kastre vald. Perhaps the Kastre parish would have been even more appropriate. Were other options considered, such as the municipality of Tartu? And why was it decided that Luunja should join the city of Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U224	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the situation was discussed on a number of sides. One part of Luunja municipality is very strongly integrated with the city of Tartu, the other part is of a rural nature, there are swamps and bogs. In this sense, different mergers were possible. But first, in these regions, which are most integrated with the city of Tartu, most of the population lives. Secondly, it is clear that the direction of people is still in the city of Tartu, whether they live anywhere in the municipality. People are still moving towards the city of Tartu. But yes, a potential merger was discussed with the municipality of Peipsiääre, the municipality of Kastre, and also the municipality of Tartu. But the parish cannot be cut, it is not provided for by law. The municipality as a whole can join in one direction or the other. And since the decision was relatively clear, that's what you did.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U225	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U226	Thank you. I have the impression that you have discussed this merger well with the city of Tartu. Have you also heard what additional resources the management of these meadows and pastures should bring to the city of Tartu as a result of administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U227	Thank you. Indeed, I have discussed this issue with the management of the city of Tartu. The management of Tartu has been very positive about this merger. They have expressed a desire to become part of this territory in order to develop it. However, we have not gone into such details that we have specifically discussed how much it will cost. All administrative processes on the territory of the local government are certainly costly and entail additional costs, but I believe that the two merging municipalities, which are very strong in terms of administration, will be able to continue to cope, although these are also non-conventional areas for the city of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U228	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzini, please. However, I am sorry, Mr Gräzin. Since the floor is also requested by the representative of the heirs, who has now become Andres Herkel, as I understand it, I am forced to ask your consent that we give him the floor first. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Perhaps we could have such an institution that, in the course of the questioning, it is possible to give it additional signatures on an ongoing basis. Then I would have given the floor to Mr Gräzin, but the current rule is the second. Minister Korb said about the fact that the government and the minister of the poor must act within the very narrow limits that the legislator has prescribed. He implied that even he felt that many solutions were not very reasonable, but they were just that way. I can't help feeling sorry for the very bad legislator that's in this Chamber. At the same time, I think that we have done our best to raise these problems and to provide solutions. I do not understand why the parties in the government coalition have not wanted to approve these solutions. Of course, the previous government plowed ahead of the administrative reform and everything was already largely defined by the administrative reform law. But the fact that the possibility of correcting errors is completely excluded is still incomprehensible to me. What is important about Luunja? In the case of Luunja, its growth potential is important. This is obviously a rural municipality for which it would only take a little time if the 5000 population criterion was met. Secondly, it is impossible to understand why the government is so illogically treating Sauga, where people want to go to Pärnu. In the case of Luunja, however, it is believed that going to the city is the only sensible solution, and that this must necessarily be done. It doesn't make any sense. And one big question, however, is how the community will function when it joins the big city and what will happen right there. Jüri Adams has repeatedly used the term 'Ansip to do'. The ansip was made when the electoral district was redrawn in the city of Tartu. In fact, they were not redrafted, but the four circles were put together in one large circuit, where 49 mandates were allocated. The city of Tartu has nearly 100000 inhabitants and the municipality of Luunja has 4200 inhabitants, and if this pattern is followed, then a unit with 4200 inhabitants will undoubtedly be swallowed by the city of Tartu. He will also be swallowed by this great constituency. There would be some hope if there were still four electoral circles in Tartu and this edge from Tartu, which extends to the village of Lokkva, somehow ran into Luunja. All of this certainly leaves a question to the local people that the devil needs to do. If we essentially manage, if we meet the criteria set out in the Administrative Organisation Act, why do we need to twist people's hands? There's nothing left of identity like that. Now a little bit of this analogy. When I think about urban sprawling, I'll be the first to see Viimsi. And other "golden circle" municipalities around Tallinn will come to mind. In Viimsi, you can travel for kilometres, look out the car window or even walk on foot, but the feeling that you are out of the border with Tallinn is almost not. The transition is almost nonexistent. Why, then, do these municipalities not follow an analogous approach? The entire design of municipalities, according to the 5000 population criteria, is one major accident. Compared to Luunya, Viimsi, but Viimsi is a much more characteristic example of urban sprawl than Luunya, which extends to the metropolitan area of the Emajõgi River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U230	And now Igor Gräzin, please! Eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U231	It is good to speak with the opposition, as well as in the opposition, in the sense that I simply have to continue where others left off! Krista asked if the voice of the municipality of Luunya would sound. As head of the Tartu County Organisation, I say: if the members of the Reform Party are elected, we are currently making this list, then the vote of Luunja will sound. You just have to choose the Reform Party. It's as simple as that! Now, however, the problem of Monika referred to by Lokkva etc., all of this rural municipality theme. Look what the problem is! Geographically, this is where Tartu is in the middle and on one side lies Luunja and on the other side Tähtvere, just like a bow tie. But now there are very interesting questions. For example, what will be the decision of the Tartu City Government that prohibits keeping animals in the city? It's not a sloppy problem, but it's already around Weathersalu. By the way, there is a rule in Tartu according to which the traps must be beaten down from the squirrel. Does that include animal farms? Next, I am very interested in how the city of Tartu will deal with the problem of feral pigs, which has become quite awful. It was meant to be a joke, but at one point the mayor got serious. It was when they asked if the main agronom and the main zootech would emerge in the city hall. And who's gonna deal with hunting, animal welfare and other such things in the woods? The forest isn't a park, it's very different. We're going to have a very peculiar situation. What's interesting is that we've been talking about local governments all along. We have Kallaste and so on, all have exceptions. This is again a philosophical exception: we are linking the county government to the city government, with absolutely different systems. What does local inland transport and non-transport mean, etc.? It is, of course, a special feature in Tallinn that the Estonian state pays for public transport in Tallinn. The train of Pääsküla, which is an internal train, costs the whole of Estonia to drive within Tallinn. If you're looking at the administration of this thing, there are two peculiar places in the same municipality of Luunja or in Tähtvere. One place is where the city ends. Tartu ends somewhere, but you don't know where the border is. If you start coming from the other side, you'll know where the city starts. And the problem is not in Lolkva, where our distinguished entrepreneurs, bankers, lawyers and where Monika lived. It's not the Slopp, it's the area we can handle. The problem is in this part of the country. With the help of the Lord, this problem is not due to the Reform Party and only thanks to the Reform Party! In the Ülenurmes. That's because Ülenurme's parish elder is a Reform man, the mayor is a Reform man. We managed this thing and it's running gold. But what if the mayor is no longer a representative of the Reform Party? What happens then? We have to consider that this possibility is very theoretical, but basically it exists. Does that not mean that we are actually faced with the task of drawing the line from which urban sprawl begins: where the city ends and where the land begins? It is not Tartu that swallows Luunja, but together Tartu and Lohkva that swallow the county of Tartu as a countryside, as nature. And this is a fundamental issue that should be resolved both in Tallinn and elsewhere. I remember Võssotsik had a beautiful song called "Goroda konchjutsja kladbištham." And actually, right, every place that goes on from there is no longer a city in the urban sense. So far, it was a philosophical problem. Today you lifted up the Luunja problem and you see, here he is. I am not sure that the current self-government reform will be able to solve this, but we need to understand: the types of settlement change and protect not what came into the city, but what remained in it must protect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U232	There are no further requests to speak. Would the Minister like another word? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-17_U233	It is now possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. There are no requests to speak. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 20:22 a.m.
