ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U2	Mr President! Good members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of six members of the Free Party, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Protection Kaia Ivala. The subject is SKIAIS2. For those who are not familiar with social issues, I say that the SAIS is the Social Insurance Board's information system, which makes about 600,000 transfers every month, i.e. a large amount of money is paid to our citizens in the form of pensions, family allowances, disability benefits, etc. SKAIS1, or the old SKAIS, has long lived for its time; it has basically been amorated. It is such an important information system that if it collapsed, i.e. people would lose their pensions and benefits, none of us would want to imagine what would happen. The SKIAIS2 project was created and was due to enter into force last July. Its completion has gone over the rocks and stumps. The Committee on Social Affairs has also repeatedly pointed out over the past year the great danger that the SKIAIS2 will not be completed in time. However, new tasks have been added to the SKIAIS2 developers' shoulders. This will require successful implementation of the work capacity reform, a livelihood fund, support for a single-living pensioner, etc. We want to know from the Minister what the development project for the SKIAIS2 is and whether there is any hope that it will ever be completed in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U3	Thank you. There's no more words. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board decides on this further procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a support group called CLL in this Chamber, or 'Protect pets! ' the founding meeting, convened by Marianne Mikko. All colleagues who wish to join this support group will find Marianne Mikko after the sitting and take part. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check, please. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Youth Work Act, the Private Schools Act and the Law amending the Interest Schools Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Laine Randjärv, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture, to hold a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The preparation of the second reading of the draft 341 was discussed three times in the Committee on Culture: on 6, 14 and 20 March 2017. Let me remind you of the substance of this bill. The Government of the Republic initiated the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Law amending the Law on Interest Schools on 21 November 2016. This draft proposes, firstly, a grant to improve the accessibility and diversity of recreational education and activities for young people aged 7 to 19 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U6	Excuse me, dear waitress. The noise background has gotten so high in this hall that I can't even hear the waitress. I'm really asking you, if you have any conversations, just keep them on the outside. We respect Mr Laine Randjärv so that he can give his presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President. But an education of interest is certainly also a very important matter. Thus, second, support for the development of the quality of areas of interest is envisaged, and thirdly, the annual commitment of the municipalities to submit an action plan or amendments to an action plan for the field of interest, together with reports on its implementation. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 February 2017. No proposals were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 February. The Committee on Culture then asked for proposals for the draft from the Association of Estonian Hobby Schools, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Estonian Youth Work Centre, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations and the City Government of Tartu. The Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Estonian Youth Work Centre and the Tartu City Government submitted their views or proposals. In addition, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families submitted its proposal to amend the draft. One amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Education and Research. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft three times after its first reading and decided to propose eight amendments to the draft. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, they presented their views on the amendments... [[The manager calls the bell and the speaker interrupts the report.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my request: please give the waitress a chance to perform.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U9	Thank you. Well, I'll say it again with a full sentence. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance presented their views on the amendments. I will describe the discussions in the Commission in the context of the amendments. In a large way, the proposals were divided into technical terms, definitions and principles for the amount of support and sharing of support between local authorities. I am not going to broadcast the whole debate on a date-by-date basis here, because within a 20-minute presentation, you would not be able to dissect or analyze everything anyway. I will just take stock of the issues that have attracted more attention and led to the political debate. The main discussion and discussion was made by Amendment 1, the definition of the concepts of education of interest and activities of interest. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research had fundamental disagreements about the definition of the terms 'interesting activities' and 'interest education'. Since the draft law does not lay down the amount of support or the method by definition, the Committee on Culture decided not to focus on the dispute. Instead, it was agreed that the law would use those words on the basis that the education of interest is a training permit, while the activities of interest could be either short-term, long-term or project-based, i.e. a circle/club, organised and supervised systematically. In the light of the above, the Committee on Culture proposes to complement the definition of support for recreational education and activities as follows: The support is intended to improve the availability and diversity of structured and guided recreational education and activities. The aim of the grant is to increase opportunities for young people aged 7 to 19 to acquire knowledge, skills and attitudes in the chosen area of interest. However, it was found that the new Education Act, which awaits its follow-up in the Ministry, should further define the word 'education of interest' in such a way that all laws that are relevant to this subject will be synchronised. This topic had also created uncertainty among the members of the Association of Estonian Music Schools, for example, who were not satisfied that the Ministry had planned to consider the education of interest as part of youth work. The Committee on Culture also considered that recreational education cannot be defined as merely activities related to the leisure activities of the age of 7 to 19 but must be seen in the context of lifelong learning. The explanatory memorandum at the draft provides a very detailed overview of the discussion of this amendment, and explanations can be given to interested parties in the round of questions if necessary. The second area on which most discussions were held in the Committee on Culture concerns the size and basis of the allocation of support. Here I would like to highlight the proposal received from the Estonian Alliance of Children's Rich Families that the needs of children's rich families be taken into account when providing support for recreational activities. For children's families, the Ministry of Education and Research has developed support for interest training. This can be applied for by a family with four or more underage children/young children in the household or by a household with four or more children where young people up to and including 26 years of age study in upper secondary school, vocational school or higher education during the day. The Committee on Culture supported the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Research to supplement the Government of the Republic's regulation 'Conditions and arrangements for the allocation and use of the funds allocated to local government units' by reference to the situation of children's families, which the municipalities must also rely on under other conditions for the use of the allowance, but did not consider it necessary to separate this amendment in the Act. The problem is, among other things, that no law defines how many children the family is considered to be child-rich. To be honest, it was a surprise to me, too. Indeed, we have different types of support from the third child, the association of children's rich families can be from families with four children, while the Family Benefits Act provides for separate support for parents with seven or more children. Thus, it was initially within the scope of the Ministry of Education and Research's regulation and it was pointed out that activities should be financed on an ad hoc basis, assessing the economic capacity of each family, and should support those who really need it. The proposal of the Tartu City Government was to replace the data of the Estonian Population Register, which is the basis for determining the grant for interest education and recreational activities, with the number of young people aged 7 to 19 who are studying at a general and vocational education institution in the territory of the local government. However, this proposal was not taken into account by the Committee on Culture, considering that the local authority could regulate the grant on the basis of the decision-making powers of its council. I would specifically like to highlight the topic of the city of Tartu. It is difficult to guarantee equal opportunities for residents of substitute homes and pupils in schools with special needs, as a large part of them do not have a residence in Tartu under the Population Register. They participate or wish to participate in activities of interest and do so in a larger centre where there are more opportunities for young people with special educational needs. The Committee on Culture considered this issue to be very important. However, it was recognised during the discussions that a more general basis for support or an understanding of the organisation of recreational education and activities should be found, which would go beyond the scope of the pending draft. This will therefore remain in the work for the future. Amendment 4 is the Committee on Culture's proposal to make the distribution of state budget resources to ensure the availability and diversity of support for recreational education and recreational activities equal (section 151 (2) and (3) of the Youth Work Act to be supplemented by subsection 1 (3) of the draft). The ministries agreed with the proposal that the share of state budget resources should be as follows: 50% to ensure availability and 50% to ensure diversity. According to the Ministry of Finance, this distribution guarantees participation in recreational education and activities to at least 40000 young people aged 7 to 19 who are in socio-economically more difficult situations, and also helps to improve regional access to recreational activities with EUR 7 million in low-population regions with a total population of around 62000 young people aged 7 to 19, i.e. for each young person, approximately EUR 115 per year. The same proposal was also submitted to the Committee on Culture by the City Government of Tartu. By proposing a change in proportion, the Committee on Culture stated that this was a support that would only be implemented, and this would be the case in the autumn of 2017 for municipalities with new borders under the Administrative Reform Act. At the end of a certain period of implementation, there may be a need for support to change the share of state budget resources, but there is currently a transitional period. Amendment 5 concerns the restriction on the use of support for recreational education and recreational activities. The Committee on Culture's proposal was to reformulate the restriction on the use of support for recreational education and recreational activities as regards the replacement of the costs covered by the municipality's own budget with the grant received (Article 151 (4) of the Youth Work Act, which is supplemented by subsection 1 (3) of the draft). The Ministry of Education and Research supported this proposal. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the purpose of the restriction is to ensure that the local governments' own funding for recreational education and recreational activities so far, i.e. the state budget support must be added to and not replaced by the local government's expenditure so far. According to the proposal, the municipality must be guided by the principle that it does not replace the costs covered by the subsidy from its budget. The other amendments are, in general terms, technical and can also be read more closely by means of an explanatory memorandum. All eight amendments received consensus support in the Committee on Culture. Following multiple meetings, the following consensual procedural decisions were adopted in the Commission on 20 March. Propose a second reading of draft 341 on the plenary agenda by 4 April 2017. Propose the termination of the second reading. Shorten one working day to make the documents on which the second reading discussion was based available to the members of the Riigikogu and set it Monday, 3 April at 5.15 p.m. it was already away yesterday, but just in case, I announced that such a decision had been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U10	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. First please, Toomas Jürgenstein!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U11	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us that we may disagree a bit about some nuances, but it seems to me that we are broadly in agreement. However, I would like to bring some emphasis and talk about why the Social Democrats have considered this draft to be very important. I'm going to dive a little into philosophy. Sometimes it is said that Western European philosophy is nothing more than marginal remarks on Plato's thoughts. Plato was a dualist who looked at the world in two ways. It seems to me that we may have a little Platonically stuck to the notion that a home and a school create prerequisites for the development of a student and a young person. As a teacher, I have sometimes even experienced confrontation between home and school, although, fortunately, it is rare. There's nothing wrong with moderate dualistic thinking, but it's bad if you're stuck in it. The caption can be broken by the underlying opposite couple's additional idea, which is based on the simple finding that learning is also taking place when the student is not at home or at school. That's what the bill before us does. In addition, this draft underlines that extra-school education should be systematic, whether it is sports training, drama, nature observation, choir or robotics. Now, in some respects, the draft in question creates the preconditions for. I visited Tartu Vocational Education Centre last week with a couple of party partners. My companion got ahead of me and asked me a question that I would have liked to ask myself. This was a simple question: What could a man over fifty learn at a vocational education centre? The administration of the Vocational Education Centre changed its eyes and then answered a little bit inquisitively to whatever, everything. The need for lifelong learning has come to a good place in vocational education, but being ready to educate also means practicing yourself with continuous learning. In my opinion, the conditions for school and non-school education created by this draft are a necessity for today's society. It prepares people for lifelong learning, and part of it is certainly also systematic and mentoring, which we were also talking about in the Commission. In the case of recreational education and activities, this is mostly very creative. It is nice to discuss whether knowledge is discovered in the learning process or whether knowledge is created. Very cautiously generalising, it seems to me that mainstream schools dominate the notion that knowledge is rather discovered and therefore, learning is mostly directed towards the outcome. However, in the case of activities of interest and education of interest, I believe that the view is that new knowledge will be created. Such learning adds a new aspect to the student's development. Creative learning is mostly attractive, and maybe we can learn to bring back those children who are currently nowhere to study, and there are about a thousand of them. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U12	Please, one more minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U13	It seems to me that thanks to a strong regional aspect, the draft also gives the countrymen the opportunity to set greater goals and to come up with a box. Dealing with diverse areas of interest on a regular basis provides a good basis for doing so. So, to sum up, it seems to me that the bill hides great potential to complement the student development environment. I was tempted to finally quote Confucius, but since I see Andres Herkel, who is Confucius' specialist, I'd rather question him during the break and do it another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U14	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U15	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! This bill is certainly a step in the right direction. However, we must not forget that this is such a small step. It's like pausing a door, because a lot of work, a lot of help in this area, and a lot of responsibility will still be left to the local authorities, as has been the case so far. This bill has two sides by which money is distributed: on the one hand, availability and diversity on the other. Finally, we should come to a paradigm shift in the development and existence of all activities of interest and education of interest. Currently, money is divided between two principles in proportion to 50: 50 and indeed, as Laine Randjärv said very nicely and correctly, it is like a transition phase. At the same time, however, the amount of money is so small that even if we had divided it by 30%: 70%, this would not have led to a fundamental change in the quality of interest education and activities. So this is the first step, and we have to get out of here. It is precisely by supporting the existing network of recreational education and activities and work that we need to move forward. We do not need to come up with completely new foundations or principles to strengthen the school system and school education. Creating sounds really good, but before we start implementing the next direction, we are still so honest with what we have done that we will go on with what we have and strengthen it. I see four problems, which we need to think about and which should always be at the top of the agenda, as a major target for action and education of interest. Firstly, perhaps the most general roof problem that concerns the whole of society. Education has always been, and must continue to be, the first great value of Estonian society for the purpose of assessing all undertakings, including economic finance and investment. Education has been and must remain the flag letter of Estonian society. Secondly, the salaries of the teachers of our hobby schools. The teachers of hobby schools have perfectly combined two sides: creativity and the ability to teach, to raise. Their wages, however, are ridiculously low. For example, Ahtme, Puka and also Kohtla-Järve Art School teachers pay 670 euros in gross wage. It's no good for our society. This must not be allowed, it must be dealt with. Thirdly, as I have heard, our museum network cannot allow students from art schools, for example, to enter art museums free of charge. I'm sorry! Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Education, solve this issue! We have museums, so creative training and hours of interest could take advantage of these opportunities. Fourthly, let us think that it is this same activity and education of interest that will also help children who may have been in a bit of trouble, either because of poor social conditions or for other reasons. Creativity, the ability to think and learn through creation must be possible for all children, for those who are only very small or who are in trouble for some other reason. Power to advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U16	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Jürgenstein was optimistic that we were all very supportive and agreed on this draft. But I still have to disappoint you a little. Everything that's been said about this remote control doesn't apply much to this bill. In fact, we're talking about just one attempt, one election promise to bake bread. Unfortunately, this election promise is something that has already been and has generally failed. We are not really talking about the importance of recreational activities and recreational education in this draft. We are really only talking about the spreading of EUR 15 million, which, by the way, the local authorities in the Committee on State Budget Control said that this is ridiculous. This is a ridiculous attempt to interfere with the financial autonomy of municipalities with a particular subject. And I'm not talking about money right now, I'm really talking about local government autonomy. Yesterday, it was funding that was on the agenda, and this draft is precisely funding, not that it is interesting, but it is great, and that children need an interest in development and an education of interest. For me, this issue is exhausted in itself, in the sense that these truths were recorded in 2002 in a programme that included, in particular, parental benefits and the creation of all the prerequisites for the development of a child, including activities of interest and education, as well as the possibility for parents to work and organise family and professional life. These are so simple that they do not need to be repeated. The real difficulties are starting with how to manage all this. There was money to be given to and given by the state in the field of hobby education, recreational activities. This does not mean that the mechanism must be such that the state gives the municipalities some complex formula and labeled thing. No, it's a function of self-government, and it doesn't tend to fall out of Toompea's intervention. I have actually been in the same position both in the government and in the opposition. I'm gonna tell you the same story I said to the government. The mother of this initiative, one might say, is Laine Randjärv. It was very important to him that, a few years after the programme mentioned, he proposed the concept of 'round money' before the elections, according to which so much money should be given, I think it was about 2,000 kroons per child, just for activities of interest, like a bounty. But, of course, it brought complications. Of course, not all children need it the same way. Of course, it cannot be applied in the same way in all parts of the world, because there are very different choices from one region to another. That is why we rejected it as soon as the situation deteriorated and it became clear that the state does not have money for everything, only effective things can be done. At the time, we gave it up because there was no sharing mechanism. But it was repeated again. Eight years later, the same idea came out in the election. Since I was heartfelt in this area and certainly supported the country's funding for the extracurricular development of the child, I, as Minister of Education, had to contribute again to the birth of this monstrum. This draft was finally prepared in cooperation with the Social Democrat Minister for Culture and the Reform Party Minister for Education, as a compromise, but I said then in the government and I say here today that we actually managed to deal with the monster. We shouldn't be dealing with this kind of thing. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U18	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U19	We should leave the local governments with their work. These two aspects are certainly important: one is the diversification of the education of interest, the other is regional. In fact, however, both diversity and economic efficiency, so-called regularity, are indeed regional issues and, therefore, it is more of a matter of municipal funding. Are we going to get over this crap that was discussed yesterday in the Committee on State Budget Control? Everyone is talking about some sort of restoration of the income base at the 2009 level, as if it were a tax percentage. No, it's not about the tax percentage. The thing is, if we start increasing the rate of income tax again, we're going to increase further regional differences. We are also increasing the differences in access to recreational education, because in large centres where people live more closely, it is easier to create interest schools, organise circles of interest and all that anyway. Anyway, there are people who can offer it, and there are more kids who go there anyway. But the financial incentive must be created where wages are lower, few people, few teachers, few learners. In this sense, it is really nothing more than a matter of funding for local governments. And we will still be able to reach the point that the funding of local governments must be harmonised. In fact, there must be regional policy, but it must be accompanied by autonomy. We shouldn't be making more signs. Let's take a swimsuit. The local authorities say it's actually ridiculous, we're being given hundreds of thousands to teach children how to swim, but it's a petty promill, right, of our budgets, which is half a billion. Less than a million dollars will be distributed with a label again. That won't be necessary. It is necessary for weaker municipalities to have a more level playing field for organising all this themselves, according to where there is an opportunity to deal with robotics, where there is an instrument game, where there is a swimming pool and where the conditions are so poor that we need to go further. I am certainly not calling on anyone to vote against this draft; I am voting in favour of it myself. But let's face it, we're making a mess here, not solving some fundamental problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U20	Inara Luis, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the government has brought before us legislative changes that significantly improve the well-being of children and young people, give them more opportunities and make our words into action. If we say we care about children, we will do so with this law. Paradoxical, if not symbolic, is to come up with the Youth Work Act at a time when the foundations of the entire Estonian entertainment culture are shaking the initiative of Jevgeni Ossinovski to control the availability of alcohol over and above pressure. Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski does not intend to ban alcohol. He doesn't ban parties or events either. He only wants alcohol not to play a bearing and leading role in them. Jevgeni Ossinovski cares about people and wants a person to control alcohol, not alcohol. With the current bill, we want children to have exactly the same quality through child and youth sports, music, handy activities, opening up the circles of interest and really giving new impetus to youth activities. The Social Democratic Party has always been convinced that youth interest is the key to creating a growing generation of development opportunities. If more sport is done, the developing activities are carried out in artistic circles and other areas of interest are realized, then children develop into a wider circle of eyes and can want more from life. Inactive children become active, have an enthusiasm for getting ahead in life and setting their own goals. They are motivated to cooperate outside the smart device and are able to do something about the real world shoulder to shoulder, together. Not everyone has been given opportunities to become masters and become masters. Not everyone has been given a gift for everything. However, when children are in contact with interesting activities, children become curious about different areas, as well as an understanding of the opportunities that society offers for self-development in the first place. After all, the well - known truth is that when a person does not have the knowledge or the ability to deal with something interesting, he begins to kill time, or hang out, as is the modern word for young people. From there, there is only one step to the patient who is meant by Minister Ossinovski in his anti-alcohol work. Activities of interest create synergies that are essential for the development of society. When people meet with common interests, and this is what happens in circles of interest, a foundation for co-operation has been created to achieve something beautiful, to come up with something new and, above all, to find the strength to carry out the thoughts that have grown together. When Evgeny Ossinovsky's legislative initiative takes alcohol out of sight, this bill brings a multifaceted world of interest to young people. The circles of interest open young people's eyes to see exciting areas that could attract them and develop them at the beginning of the circle of interest, later as a potential profession, and bring bread to the table after independent life. Even if a child is disappointed in an activity of interest, for example, he or she does not have the gift of hornblowing, he or she may later discover his or her talent in another field. Hidden talent can be discovered by recreational activities where it is possible to test different ways and to find out what opportunities exist for realizing one's own personality in society. After impaling the horn, for example, by carving wood, a child may find that such calm activities create artistic value and offer the opportunity to make his/her own realization possible. So, more than welcome to the artists' family! With this draft, the state will help rural areas. It is the remoteness of large cities that misses opportunities to develop children. It is difficult to move on land because there is little money and so far there is no free transport. Teachers of hobby groups are often absent. The current draft law offers a solution. Of course, this is not the first thing the Social Democrats have done for the children in this Chamber. It was thanks to the Social Democrats that child support could also be increased. This is a big step, and if you add others to it, you can safely say that much has been done for the children. The success of any country, especially a small country like us, depends on how much we can create new value for the world. If we have a competitive, innovative new generation that can invent new products and market new products to the world, then we can be worried about our future. It is then that we will get these highly paid jobs, a high value chain, exports and economic growth with prosperity. The kids have the key, it's as simple as that. We will make the right contribution this time and direct the support of the state to where it is most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U22	Laine Randjärv, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came to this remote control to sort out a few things, because my colleague, former Minister of Education and Science Jürgen Ligi, suggested certain positions that were probably his own, and may not necessarily belong to the whole group. First of all, I'd like to explain the issue of round money. Certainly neither the round money nor the current bill is the child of Laine Randjärv, as has been said from this remote control, but a political and programmed measure, which was actually proposed by the Reform Party at first, because it was our election promise and also in the coalition agreement in 2007. However, this draft, which actually passed the first reading in 2008, did not stop because it was not possible to agree on implementing legislation, but then, at the time of the recession, it was not a secret for anyone, the cost of this draft would have been 420 million kroons. That is why it was not possible to adopt this law at the time. At that time, for example, we had to cut by 30% in the area of culture in order to get the budget balance and bring the country out of the recession. So, indeed, these implementing acts were discussed and we wondered how to distribute money in such a way that local authorities would not use their own planned budgetary resources for activities of interest and education of interest and would not replace it with public money. However, very substantive discussions were not reached at the time. That is why I am pleased that the coalition agreement agreed in 2015 once again included the subject of recreational education and activities. I must therefore congratulate the Ministry of Culture, on whose initiative the debate on this draft began. This topic was taken up very thoroughly and the interest groups involved were gathered. Discussions were thorough, there were quite a lot of disputes. On the one hand, it is really up to the local government to support activities of interest. On the other hand, we must admit that in 2009, the Government of the Republic decided to cut money for youth work, recreational activities and support for sport in local governments. However, a large number of local authorities continued to support activities of interest, without state aid, and did so in such a way that children could participate in the groups of interests free of charge. Discussions were also based on the need to motivate supervisors. It was necessary to motivate rural areas beyond the centres to organise activities of interest if they did not have it on the ground or to support teachers' trips to remote areas. This is the essence of public policy, that, together with this perhaps not too much money, with EUR 15 million, it can, of course, argue whether it is large or small money, compared to the 150 million local authorities that are now being directed to community education and recreational activities across the country, it is an additional bonus, we can help local authorities precisely at regional or sectoral level. Indeed, the debate on percentages, i.e. how much to support diversity and how much to support regionality, was quite large. Originally, the emphasis was on regionality. But here again, it is a matter of national politics. This is not someone's will or opinion or trusting/distrusting local government. If one municipality couldn't make it anywhere far from the centre and the state wanted to help, but it didn't have a teacher to go there, for example, there would be some kind of measure that the state can support. Now, this bill is also important in that it formulates activities that have never been mentioned before, particularly at the level of the law, such as robotics, science and the environment. We have talked a lot about singing, dancing and playing music, but much less about what prepares for different degrees and what we traditionally do not consider to be activities of interest. Indeed, model aviation or dealing with some kind of robot is certainly highly evolving and technical circles are necessary so that they too were formulated. Of course, I am very pleased, however, that this draft has come in almost the same form as the Minister of Education and Science in the days of Jürgen Ligi. Even in Maris Lauri's time, the directions were exactly the same, and the current minister has not made any cardinal changes there. I would like to say that the ministries have been consistent with this bill and that the agreed activities have progressed. Personally, I am most concerned about the issue of definition, although this is not the subject of this draft. In particular, the fact that neither the Youth Work Act, the Interest School Act nor the current draft have defined an education of interest anywhere is the reason why we use the words 'education of interest' and 'action of interest' separately in this draft. Education of interest must certainly be defined in the Education Act, because there is now too much confusion, differing interpretations and misunderstandings, which is exactly what it is. For me, an education of interest is a long-term, systematic and supervised activity with a certain beginning and end, either a certificate, a writing or a document that says or proves that a course of training has been completed. In any case, this draft cannot be considered as empty or personal ambition; it is the result of the political agreement reached in the 2015 Coalition Agreement. I am pleased that such reform party liberal principles, which speak of sharing according to need, have also been introduced here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U24	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U25	Ladies and gentlemen, It is good for me, after the wave, to continue with the Communist Manifesto principle of sharing with everyone according to needs. [[Laughing.]] However, recreational education is, in fact, an integral part of general education, and I am only pleased about this draft. As it is not defined in law, it is pure work done ♪ both at the Ministry of Education and at ours. In the national curriculum of general education, all subjects are distributed in proportion to each one a little bit and something more in depth. The education of interest gives people, children, after their basic work, or lessons, the opportunity to deal in depth, in depth, and in the presence of a tutor, with a pleasant thing for themselves. At the same time, the student can change the subject of interest education. Let's say at some point he doesn't like pottery anymore, then he goes to model aviation. If you don't like model aviation, it's robotics. We used to have robotics, but it was just called a different type of technical toys. Right now, it's robotics. Basically, Lego, electric motors, programming and some sensors are the same aggregate that travels from one corner to another or along the line. Such technical gadgets are extremely useful to motivate current students. Now a little bit of an objection. Rural areas are said to have a major difficulty in accessing vocational education. I'm trying, and I know it, to say that the more away from the centers, the more interest education is being pursued. There is indeed an education of interest, not an activity of interest, and it deals with its substance, not business. I mean, the further away from the centers, the more children are actually busy with the school, the hobby school, the hobby circle. For example, a fresh example of Sin. The kids there said they wouldn't want to leave school and want to stay there 24 hours a day because it's so exciting that they can do all kinds of things there, they have their own studios and stuff. It's all something else. It is not only about money, it is directly linked to motivation and the treasures of the people who do the work. Let's take a hobby. The countryside is gone, let's say, old people's knitting houses, men's anecdote rooms, guitar rooms, dance circles, because they're not motivated. If there's no locomotive with eyes shining, who wants to do all this, this thing's gonna die out. I mean, again, the motivation isn't money, there's something else. Sometimes it's good to have someone pat you on the shoulder and say you're awfully nice and talented, life would have stopped without you. That's the motivation, too. Not if they say you don't have anything going on here, you have a muddy road, you're gonna get popped here tonight. This is an example of Haapsalu, not a bang, that after the fencing grenade, I asked someone if he would bring a gun, or epee. Answer: Haapsalu is not such a criminogenic place that you should walk around here with a gun at night. So the threat factors of mainstream media are often not true at all. An example of Narva. I'm sorry! Our attraction center is Tallinn. There are fewer people living in Narva than in North Tallinn, but there are ten general education schools and eight hobby schools in Narva, with 4000 free study places and 6,000 students within the frame of the hobby school. And for those 2,000 interested who do not have free seats, tuition fees have been imposed, but they do not exceed EUR 7 to 15 per month. Are we now going to talk about the fact that the activities of interest have died out of Tallinn and beyond Tartu? These are very controversial things. But the bill itself is very good. The bill is great because we need money. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U26	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U27	Money is needed for the purchase of materials, for the rental of premises, etc. I'm sure we need the money. But the rule of this distribution, or rules, needs to be worked out very accurately. These are not one, two or three-point rules, but are very broad-based rules. Let me give you another example of Narva. The hobby school string class is lined with a black cap to remove the echo from the room, while top-class acoustic guitars are hanging on the wall, waiting for players. Narva City! In this hobby school, 1,200 students study for free. Good place to think. Thank you, and have a good day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U28	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a speech, and I didn't really intend to speak, but a good colleague Jürgen Ligi's speech got me thinking and forced the remote to come here. Speaking of hobby education, I think the name doesn't ruin a man or any education. However, it is good and important that it is defined. But in fact, recreational education has been around for decades, including in the blissful Soviet times, because adult education centres played the same role. Yeah, they were different, but they were, like, nature conservation adult-universities. In fact, it has been and will continue to be an education of interest, and it certainly needs support. Several political parties here have said what they have done for the education of interest. The main thing I wanted to say is that a large part of the local government revenue base was taken away in February 2009 in this very Chamber. At the time, the Central Party didn't do it. The share of income tax received by municipalities was reduced and a large number of municipal resources were lost. One of the main reasons was that youth education and recreational activities are no longer the responsibility of municipalities. It was quite a trick at the time, because the municipalities had to continue to do youth work. Still, all municipalities have contributed money to recreational education because without it, local life is not conceivable. Children and young people are our offspring; they definitely need to be supported. A few words about regional policy and regional development. Obviously, we have now reached such an unfortunate stage in Estonia's development that, no matter what, we are linking it to regional policy. Yes, every measure is important. I agree with one hundred percent of Mrs Laine Randjärv's criticism of the so-called misconceptions of her groupmate. Yes, I also support any measure that strengthens local authorities. However, regional policy is generally the way it is used in most European countries to support business, to add resources to entrepreneurship. This is done by regional and regional differentiation. Regional policy is certainly not selling vodka in different regions of Estonia, whether cheap or expensive. We need to find other instruments and other routes for regional development. However, the education of interest needs support and it is certainly a good law, so let us support it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U30	Thank you. There's no more calls. We will go to the examination of the amendments. We have received eight amendments, all of which have been made by the lead committee. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The fourth amendment, from the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, takes full account of the position of the commission. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is to take full account of the position of the commission. The seventh amendment, the position put forward by the Committee on Culture and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of Bill 341. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U31	Our second item today is the first reading of draft law No 411 on the amendment of the planning law initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the related amendment of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Planning Act and related changes to the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Environmental Management System Act at its extraordinary meeting on 23 March, including. Aivar Kokk explained that the reason for the amendment of the Planning Act and the related draft Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act is to encourage the creation of investments. Planning is a relatively expensive activity and the current law does not stipulate how a person interested in planning can pay for it. The legislative amendment that has been put into effect is intended to fill this gap. Tiit Oidjärv, Head of Planning Department of the Ministry of Finance, explained the changes planned with the draft. According to the draft plan, the organiser of the planning activities may, in the case of the plan on which the project is based, conclude a contract with the person interested in drawing up the plan, ordering and impact assessment, including the costs of strategic environmental assessment. The planner is either a local government unit, the Ministry of Finance or other government institution. The plan manager may agree with the person interested in drawing up the plan that the organizer will do all the activities necessary for drawing up the plan (procurement, planning procedure, publicity, coordination), but the interested party shall pay the costs related to the preparation of the plan and the impact assessment. Changes to the draft will enable development projects to be carried out regardless of the financial resources of the plan manager. In the case of a detailed plan, different procedural procedures may also be transferred, but these activities shall not be transferred in the case of a specific plan. Other amendments are editorial in the draft. The draft also amends the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act, which states that the plan manager may conclude a contract to cover the costs of strategic environmental assessment of the plan on which the construction project is based, on the basis of which the costs are paid by the interested party. Currently, there are two parts of the current law: EIA, which is an environmental impact assessment for a project, and SEA, which is an environmental impact assessment for a plan. In the case of KMH, it is already stipulated that an interested party will pay; in the case of KSH, it is stipulated that it will pay for the planner. The draft law harmonises that expenditure can be paid by an interested party. The Ministry of the Environment agreed to the proposed amendments to the draft. During the discussion, the Head of the Economic Commission's Secretariat, Kaido Rosin, asked to comment on the comments made by the Ministry of Justice, on their consideration and on possible new changes. Tiit Oidjärv's reply revealed that the draft had passed through the Ministry's coordination circle, with substantive comments being made only by the Ministry of Justice. The technical specifications have been taken into account in the draft, while fundamental changes still require time. One of the comments made by the Ministry of Justice concerned the type of contract, i.e. either an administrative contract is concluded between the organiser of the plan and the interested party, or in this case a debt-law contract. This issue still needs to be discussed, because there has been no practice in Estonia in this respect.. there is no precedent in which the organiser would have paid for the plan made for the interested person. In the light of the comments made by the Ministry of Justice, an explanatory statement should be added; it is not necessary to supplement the draft. Kaido Rosin noted that explanations could be added to the explanatory memorandum after the second reading of the draft in the large hall. Kristen Michal wanted to know why the bill would have to be in force in April. Aivar Kokk explained that the Government of the Republic had been asked to initiate a plan. The Government of the Republic must make a decision to initiate the plan within three months, i.e. by 30 April inclusive. The following was decided by consensus: Firstly, to initiate a draft law amending the Planning Act and related changes to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Secondly, if the Board of the Riigikogu adopts the draft and appoints the draft as the commission of economics, appoint Erki Savisaar as rapporteur on behalf of the leading committee of the draft law amending the planning law and related changes to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Thirdly, to put the draft law amending the Planning Act and related amendments to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act on the agenda of the plenary session on 4 April, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 6 April 2017. Finally, send the draft law amending the Planning Act and related changes to the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act to the second reading when the first reading is completed, including by 13 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-04_U33	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't have any questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, we'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft No 411. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 411 amendments, including 6 April at 10 a.m. Today's trial is over. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 11.05 a.m.
