ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Honourable guests! I am opening the Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. No one's gonna show up on the initiative. Checking for presence. 69 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U2	The first item is an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before this item starts to be dealt with. First of all, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is a presentation that lasts up to 30 minutes. Questions and answers follow the presentation. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Then there will be a presentation by Toomas Vitsut, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, which will last up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers. After that there will be negotiations during which representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu will be able to speak. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, Honourable Ambassadors, Your Excellencys, Good Europeans and All Friends of Europe! To be very brief, let me say thank you to all in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair. Thank you very much for this Presidency, for the five months that the Presidency has been holding. Unity through balance.. these three words were on our shield, with the expectations and hopes of 500 million Europeans for six months. Here, those in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu know, without doubt, that only together, but by seeking balance and compromiseing, can we all find the best, most appropriate solutions, which also have long-term and strategic implications. In this way, too, we had no illusions that, with these six months or one stroke of brush, all the concerns of the European Union could be solved. At the same time, we clearly wanted, as a result of our Presidency, Europe to be a little better, a little more hopeful, a little more united and more balanced, and to pass on the Europe entrusted to us in even better shape than we did, as all future presidencies will no doubt do. Today, when I stand before you, I can say with full conviction that we will pass on the Presidency's responsibility with a calm heart and in the knowledge that we have done our best. I take this opportunity to thank all the 1300 Estonian officials and servants who carried our Presidency. I would, of course, like to thank all 101 members of the Riigikogu who have contributed very strongly to both the pre-presidencies and the Presidency, the Riigikogu's management, the European Union Affairs Commission, 14 ministers, ministries, State Chancellery, Estonian ambassadors abroad, all the other representatives of our country and, of course, the entire Estonian people. I would like to pay special tribute to the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union to the people who have coordinated and carried people from Estonia and Brussels: Heiki Loot, Klen Jääratsi, Kaja Taela, Clyde Kull and Matti Strawberry and their team. I would also like to thank the previous governments, the previous Riigikogu formations, who made a very serious contribution to the preparation of the Presidency. With our determination and determination, practical sense, quick action and smart solutions, we have assured ourselves and others that Estonia is a capable and dedicated member of the European family. The Estonian Presidency succeeded with the advice and power of our officials, politicians, private and third sectors and the hospitality of the Estonian people. Each of us is the face of Estonia and the act of Estonia in Europe, but not only, but very often we are also the face of Europe and the act of Europe in the world. Borrowing the idea of Arvo Pärt's well-known children's song: we are small, but our strength is great. And in unity there is power. It was on this occasion that hundreds of meetings in Estonia and thousands of meetings elsewhere succeeded. I have caught myself at many foreign events from the most experienced ground, thinking that Estonia is in the European family, but Europe is also in the blood of Estonia. Very Honourable Riigikogu! Although the wind blows in the European Union's sails today, it may be recalled that only recently, when we prepared the Presidency, the horizon had darker clouds, thunder clouds, and a violent storm was expected. After Brexit's referendum, the crisis was characterised by political suspension, but even existential issues. Today, we have overcome the fickle weather, regained control of the ship, and continued our course. The political objective set at the summit in Bratislava, Malta, Rome and also at the summit in Tallinn on 29 September has helped us to overcome the difficult moments. What has been done during the crisis has today shown the strength of the European Union's joint decisions: the euro area is stable, the migration crisis has been brought under control and the European Union has proven itself ready for difficult Brexit negotiations. The concerns of European citizens regarding security, migration and economic uncertainty will, of course, continue to remain the focus and focus of the European institutions. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In addition to addressing citizens' daily concerns, we have also sought solutions that have a significant structural and long-term impact. I do not wish to reduce other important achievements, but for Europe as a whole, one of the most important things is undoubtedly the conclusion of the agreements necessary for the implementation of the Paris climate agreement, the approval of the European Pillar of Social Rights and developments in the European Union's defence cooperation. For good reason, the Estonian Presidency has also been called the digital Presidency, since it was our cross-cutting priority, one of the most powerful cornerstones, one of the strongest priorities. Not only telecommunications infrastructure, the market and cyber security, but also judicial cooperation, transport, energy, internal security, defence cooperation, agriculture, education and many other areas were included in the idea that our common future is digital. We have tried to show the advantages of digitisation to all Europeans in the role of the Presidency, to save time, money and other valuable resources, to create new opportunities and to make people's everyday lives easier. For the Presidency, we created practical digital solutions and contributed to the digitisation of the European Union's work processes. Our leadership was the first digital signature of European Union legislation in October, which I hope will soon become the norm. I believe that we have been able to provide inspiration with the experience of e-residency or X-Road, both to our colleagues in the European Union and to our Eastern partners. Honourable ambassadors! When planning the Estonian Presidency, we decided to pursue four priorities. When I conclude today's Presidency, let me repeat them to you. Firstly, an open and innovative Europe, secondly, a protected and secure Europe, thirdly, a digital Europe and the free movement of data, fourthly, an inclusive and sustainable Europe. Although several good weeks remain until the very end of the Presidency and these weeks are crucial for a number of important issues, I will take the first comprehensive review and give my first assessment of our work and results as President-in-Office. Today's review is certainly not a comprehensive summary, and thorough reports of the Presidency's achievements will come at the very end of the Presidency. At the beginning of the Presidency, Estonia set itself the goal of making an effort to revitalise the European economy and improve competitiveness. We wanted to facilitate the single market and increase access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that European people could win in the choice, quality and price of goods and services. We managed to reach agreement on a number of important issues. The economy, but especially small entrepreneurship, is being revived by the agreement reached under the Estonian leadership to increase the volume of the European Fund for Strategic Investments and to extend the use of the Fund until 2020. The Fund has benefited from the facilities located here so far, for example, the Tallinn airport runway has been extended to meet environmental requirements and promote aviation safety, and very many small and medium-sized enterprises in Estonia and across Europe have benefited from the more favourable investment grants and loan conditions offered to them. Growth is also supported by a transparent tax policy. Just now, the finance ministers of the European Union unanimously endorsed the VAT package for e-commerce. It will soon become easier for businesses to pay VAT on cross-border sales of goods. In July, it was found here in Tallinn that international tax rules need to be updated so that they also take into account the development of the digital economy. A situation where online companies pay income tax only in the country where they are registered, not where they make profits, is not acceptable. The finance ministers of the European Union confirmed the European Union's common position on this issue in those days. Our task was to put together the 'last normal situation' of the European Union's annual budget before the UK left. The Presidency's work was achieved by a good agreement, with the unanimous support of the Member States. More money has been planned for associations and education programmes such as Erasmus, and a separate budget line is dedicated to strategic communication. In order to ensure the proper use of our common money, the European Public Prosecutor's Office was established during the Estonian Presidency, after four years of intensive negotiations. As an ambitious and responsible objective, we set out in the spring to make an important contribution to creating a sustainable, consumer-friendly and smart European energy market. I can say without exaggeration that a clean energy package of nearly 5 000 pages has required a large number of working hours and focused reflections from both the Presidency and other Member States. As a result of a joint effort, we have now reached the first agreement between the Member States. By taking advantage of this good momentum, we hope to make the greatest possible progress with the whole package by the end of the year. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Our second priority is a safe and secure Europe. At the beginning of the Presidency, we set ourselves the objective of reducing migratory pressure on the European Union's external borders, improving border management and addressing the consequences of the migration crisis. I can assure you that solving the migration crisis has become a management of migration: we are no longer dealing with fire-fighting, but we are focusing on long-term solutions. A good example is the European Union's African Trust Facility and the Foreign Investment Plan adopted under the Estonian Presidency, which aims to mitigate the root causes of migration. As President-in-Office, we drew attention, in particular, to the closure of the Central Mediterranean route from Libya and developed a practical implementation plan for this in July. While more than 12,000 refugees arrived in Italy a week at the beginning of the Presidency, this figure had already fallen below 2000. Of course, all the Member States, and especially those who were under the greatest migratory pressure, were in charge of this result, with Italy in particular. I recognise that the reform of the common asylum system in the European Union has been a serious challenge, but by working together we have made progress, which I hope will be shaped by the next Presidency. We are used in Europe to not asking for a passport at Europe's internal borders, and we can travel without waiting in line. In order to enjoy a Europe without internal borders, we, as the Presidency, focused on cooperation on the protection of external borders, supported by technological solutions and rapid data exchange. In 2020, there will be a system of entry into and exit from the European Union. I hope that the Estonian Presidency will also be marked by an agreement to create a European travel information and travel authorisation system. Cyber defence and cyber security have also been increasingly the focus of Estonia's leadership. The first cyber training of the defence ministers of the European Union in Tallinn pointed out the importance of cooperation and exchange of information between the European Union and NATO. The European Union must cope with the threats of cyber security and ensure a secure cyberspace for each of our citizens. In order to ensure the security of Europe with its significance, Member States are undoubtedly committed to establishing permanent structured defence cooperation. Up to 23 Member States decided, on the initiative of Germany, France, Italy and Spain, to step up defence cooperation, increase their defence costs and implement a number of joint projects, such as the simplification and acceleration of military transport in Europe. During the Estonian Presidency, we hosted hundreds of politicians, entrepreneurs and young people from Eastern Partnership countries in Tallinn. The Eastern Partnership Summit was a success, which will be marked by a joint declaration, where practical targets were set for 2020, among other things. Specific projects in the economics, associations, education and digital sectors will improve the lives of millions of people and stabilise our neighbourhood. Securing security, peace and stability in the immediate and distant neighbourhood of the European Union is a strategic objective of the European Union. 'We are living in a happy time of peace,' I said in my speech in the Bundestag on the day of the mourning of the German people on 19 November. I emphasised: 'It is the European Union that has made a very important contribution to this peace and understanding that, by its existence, has enabled the countries and peoples here to be bold and to exercise the freedoms that we all share. We need to be aware of it every day and everyone else, and we need to be united in the creation that is extraordinary and unique. ' Good listeners! I am not tired of repeating that Europe must accompany technological progress and make it work for its own benefit. I am therefore delighted to assure you here today that the free movement of digital Europe and data is no longer just a priority for Estonia, but a goal for the whole of Europe. Together with the 27 heads of state and government of the European Union, we reached a common understanding of this at a digital summit in Tallinn. The establishment of uniform rules for the development of the Digital Single Market and society in the European Union is a complex and time-consuming task because of the different vision and preparedness of the Member States, but certainly also because of considerations of trust and security. There is therefore even more reason to be satisfied with the discussions we have led to a number of very necessary agreements. Thanks to great efforts, Estonia reached an agreement with the European Parliament that the location-specific restrictions on products and services will be removed for next year's Christmas in online shops. A very important step for cross-border users of public services is the agreement on a single digital gateway regulation in the Member States, which also provides for the introduction of the principle of one-off requests for data at EU level. This has been Estonia's long-standing idea and position. A shared understanding of how to make e-governance an effective reality in Europe became confirmed in October in the Tallinn Declaration of e-governance. A common spectrum policy makes very fast communication (5G), self-steered transport, a network of things and much more a reality. The 5G declaration signed by 28 Member States and Norwegian ministers in Tallinn will undoubtedly provide the necessary impetus to develop high-speed internet access. Under the leadership of Estonia and other digitally-minded Member States, the European Commission came forward in September with the long-awaited draft on free movement of data. We have made an effort to take discussions on the free movement of data to councils in all areas and to build a common understanding of our digital future. During our Presidency, Estonia has been made aware of the free movement of data in the European Union as the spokesperson for the fifth fundamental freedom. The development of digital solutions was also an important issue at last week's European Union-African summit. I dealt with this both in my speech and in bilateral meetings with African leaders. We also signed a cooperation agreement with the African Union and Mauritius to develop e-governance. We will also have to work in Estonia, Europe and the world as a whole after the end of the Presidency to continue the success story of digital solutions and maintain our reputation. Honourable fellows! In the spring before you, I promised that, alongside the recovery of the European economy and the further development of the single market, a clean and caring environment and the creation of equal opportunities for all would be at least as important. Recently at the Social Summit in Gothenburg, discussing the social dimension of Europe, I once again experienced the strong unity of the European Union. By signing the European Pillar of Social Rights on behalf of all 28 Member States, I, along with others, made a commitment to tackle unemployment, poverty and inequality. Together, we believe in a Europe that guarantees equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and social inclusion. I am pleased that we were able to agree with the Member States on the creation of a European Solidarity Corps, which will give European young people the opportunity to gain skills, knowledge and experience through volunteering in other countries. Let me briefly address the debate on the Posted Workers Directive, which has also been heard by the Estonian public. Although the directive concerns only a small part of the European Union's workforce, this issue has been unfortunately dividing Europe for a long time, facing older and newer Member States, Western and Eastern Europe. Agreeing between the Member States required, of course, diplomatic skill and mastery negotiation. This was a vivid example of the Estonian Presidency's motto of the one-sided implementation through balance. Balance must prevail in all areas of life around us. We also tried to strike a balance between nature and people in difficult negotiations on the European Union's climate and waste policy. Estonia takes the implementation of the Paris climate agreement very seriously and I can assure you that, as President-in-Office, we did a good job to agree on the rules. Until the last few days before Christmas, negotiations with the European Parliament on sectors outside the emissions trading system will continue. However, I believe that, as a result of the Estonian Presidency, it is not impossible to write in the history book that all the agreements necessary to comply with the Paris climate agreement have been concluded in the European Union. Members of the Riigikogu! During the working dinner of the heads of state and government of Europe in Tallinn in September, we stated that in order to solve the most burning problems of citizens, we will need to meet more often in the future and discuss the most difficult issues openly with each other. On this basis, the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, presented an action plan for the so-called Heads of State, a plan for further discussions. We can be proud that Leaders Agenda started right here in Tallinn. In December, we will discuss the future of the euro as part of this plan. I fully agree with the call by the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, for all Member States to make the transition to the single currency, with the exception of Denmark and the United Kingdom, which have received a formal derogation. Economic and monetary union and the euro are certainly the means to expect stability for economic development and support for the common market in the European Union. Keeping your economy competitive and sufficiently flexible must be the interest and responsibility of each country itself. It is not replaced by an increase in the joint responsibility of the euro area countries or by the European Central Bank's emergency crisis measures. Estonia has always emphasised that the rules agreed for the functioning of the Economic and Monetary Union must be respected, but I agree that the structure of the monetary union also needs to be strengthened. In February, we discussed with Heads of State or Government what should be the highest priorities for the next budget period. Estonia is going to oppose these talks, continuing to stress the importance of European Union policies aimed at achieving greater cohesion between countries and regions, creating equal opportunities for entrepreneurs, also in the countryside, and improving connections with Europe's remote regions. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I said at the beginning that, hopefully, Europe will be a little better after our Presidency, a little more hopeful, a little more united and more balanced. But surely Estonia will also be a slightly different country after this semester. We're smarter, we have more experience, we're definitely more confident than before. We've learned, we've worked hard, we've done it. And what I think is most important is that we are more understood throughout Europe and that we have more friends than ever. It is said that it is very important to Estonians what they think of them. There may be a grain of truth in it, and sometimes it's healthy to make a little fun of it. But I don't want to live in a country like this and with people who don't care what their neighbors think. As Prime Minister, I have felt proud to go around and travel around this six months to hear good words about our country in many countries, about our nature, about our people and also about our work. I am sure that all bilateral meetings with other European leaders strengthened the positions and relations of both the European Union and our country. Once again, I bow deeply to all our officials, politicians, journalists, cooperation partners and volunteers, whose commitment and professionalism have been admirable. I thank the entire Estonian people once again. Allow me here to congratulate all previous presidencies, whose commitment and efforts enabled a number of important agreements to be confirmed, especially during the Estonian Presidency, as well as the trio partners Bulgaria and Austria, who, in the best sense, take over the baton and continue to work towards the objectives set jointly. I would also like to thank colleagues and officials working in the Commission, in the European Parliament and in other institutions, whose professional support we have been able to fulfil the Presidency's role successfully. Of course, I sincerely thank all the sympathizers in Estonia and Europe, without whom our Presidency would not have been so successful. I thank you and wish you strength both for Estonia and for Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U4	The round of questions to the Prime Minister will be opened by Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U5	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was certainly very well prepared over the last few years, and this good preparation also largely ensured a successful Presidency. I can agree with that. Certainly, the officials of our ministries deserve special recognition. You've listed very few, but you can't name them all. I believe the officials deserve that recognition. You said in your speech that the aim was to make it easier for businesses to operate in the market, and also that growth is supported by a transparent tax policy. Estonia has so far been a very good example of budgetary discipline, debt-free living, digital success and everything else. But we missed a lot of things. During the Presidency, the migration crisis, the digital summit, etc., remained unresolved. I'm gonna ask you what do you think those run-throughs were? You've brought out all the successful things here, but maybe you'll say them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U6	Thank you. Yes, I mentioned the 1,300 officials who contributed and did so really well several times. I agree with you in that respect. I think that what did not go as planned and where we certainly wanted a better result is what you mentioned. This is, of course, the so-called migration package or the Dublin package. This was certainly the place where even greater progress could have been made. It seems to me that, over the last month or a half, the European Union has become increasingly aware of the principle that there must be as broad a consensus as possible on this issue; this decision must be taken in a consensual manner. This is actually one of the topics on which Estonia has put its proposal on the table now, at the end of the Presidency. This issue will certainly move forward during the Bulgarian Presidency. But this is one place, I think, where the Presidency could have been more successful. I think there could have been more progress in the case of audiovisual media, for example. In these five months and a few days, Estonia has dealt with 370 files in the order of magnitude, so it is very difficult to point out what issues it would have needed to reach an even better agreement. But I think that the issue of migration is most acutely on the table in the European Union. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U7	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U8	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I must say, unfortunately, that I see our Presidency as a complete disaster. You have read a series of achievements here, which means centralising all of Brussels's panic power, which Estonia has promoted with its own hands during its Presidency, be it the prosecutor's office, the defence agency, the employees' directive or the centralisation of finances. Brexit's negotiations are also stuck and stuck because they are not negotiations to achieve a good relationship between the two parties in the future, but simply a dictation of conditions for the British, which has led nowhere. We now come to migration issues. Estonia has offered a compromise, which in essence still means compulsory quotas for countries. Neither the Estonian Government nor any other government has permission to do so. How did you get this mandate that you have run this policy during the Presidency? The Estonian people have never given a mandate to create a European federation or states.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U9	Thank you. Listening to your question, I remembered a sunny Friday morning. I had just come from Tapa, where I had met the French President and the Prime Minister of Britain. I had the honour of being with them in front of the Allied forces, the soldiers had come here from France and Great Britain, some from Denmark, and there were Estonian soldiers. The return journey took me to the seaside in Tallinn, where there was a city hall and cultural cover and where a digital summit took place on 29 September. This was the first digital summit in the history of the European Union in this form. As always, as a member of your experienced Riigikogu, you know this well, the summit was preceded by such a door interview, a doorstep in English, and after that, national leaders came in one by one to agree on a common position and say that Europe's progress is digital, and try to agree on the creation of infrastructure and their rules on how to proceed. Like I said, the day was beautiful and the sun was shining. There were all sorts of posters that asked why these leaders were coming here. To be honest, I do not know exactly who did this, but I did have a bad feeling about it when I put the whole day together now that, in contrast to the others, some people can see the aspect of peace and joint action. So I do not agree with your criticism that it was somehow written from Brussels. Estonia played its role as Chairman. What is the role of the Presidency? I started by saying our motto was 'Cohesion through balance'. After all, many of the important issues that we have in Estonia every day, such as e-services (e-medicine, e-school, e-governance), have been the ones we have asked about why there is no cross-border cooperation here. Let's take a digital prescription. I am pleased that the step forward to achieve cooperation here with Finland is, I would say, tangible. It has been important for us to look at the priorities, the cooperation on defence, of course not by duplicating NATO. I mentioned that during the Estonian Presidency we were able to move forward here too. The creation of the same PESCO is also a strong message within Estonia. Estonia is one of the 28 countries of the European Union and all decisions concern 510 million people, including 1.3 million people in Estonia. The Presidency is intended for the people of the European Union, not 28 leaders or certain leaders. You claimed that Estonia is now, I don't know, receiving refugees on a quota or forced order. I will only say one sentence of this proposal that we put on the table last week in Brussels in the context of the debate on ambassadors. This sentence is as follows: The proposal of the Estonian Government is that relocation also requires the consent of the host country. Stop!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U10	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U11	Thank you. Listening to this exuberant and somewhat one-sided praise for the success of the Presidency, I recall the Olympic Games, at the end of which it is always said that they were the best organised Olympic Games of all time. I am sure that our presidency in general has succeeded, although the darker tones also come to mind, I am thinking of the unsuccessful speeches and speeches by ministers, which lacked both language skills and substantive knowledge. But that's it. Thank you to everyone who bet! Instead, I ask how the government is going with preparations for the new budget period. We know that budget resources are decreasing. The National Audit Office has said that the government does not have a plan and does not even have an overview of how to approach the new budget period. The government has also abandoned the reform of the authorities that deal with euro money. These obligations are constantly deferred. What's your short-term plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U12	Thank you. That is a good question with regard to the Presidency. You brought a comparison to the Olympics. I mean, the principle has always been that the Olympic Games have been carried out in peace, and that is what they have always achieved, or most times. What is the main opportunity for the Presidency of the European Union? I think that, with the help of the Presidency, we will increase the unity, strength, unity and cohesion of the European Union in all these six months. I think it's also important that we don't really talk about any exits anymore. I named Rome in my speech earlier and the Roman Declaration. I think it has been a very powerful line since this meeting that 27 countries are moving forward together after Brexit. You said, taking into account your experience, that you see that it lacks language skills, that it lacks knowledge and knowledge. I think the Presidency is a team game, Mr Aas. If there's anything missing, the teammate will help you, compensate it, give you an elbow feeling. It's important, I think, because what these 1,300 people are doing is just like that. I'm not ashamed of that at all. I think that the Presidency is teamwork and, to sum up, the whole of the European Union is the work of a team. Now about what you said about the Estonian Presidency. I think that we should certainly pay attention to how we are valued from the outside. Take, for example, the budgetary rule of the Stability and Growth Pact. It can be confirmed that Estonia complies with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, including the budget rule, as shown by the most important extension now! just an assessment of the European Commission's Estonian budget plan. This responsible fiscal policy will certainly be pursued by the government; it will pursue it strongly. As you can see, for example, the European Commission has assessed this positively. Looking at you here, I remember, for example, the rating agency Fitch, which did not leave Estonia's rating the same, but instead raised it. In this sense, I agree with Mr Pevkur, who here said that there has been a very big job done in advance. I certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U13	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U14	Thank you. It's sad to hear you here praise the 'great wins of work' that are harmful to us. For example, the Posted Workers Directive is embarrassing that it was during the Estonian Presidency that a decision was born that harasses all the poorest countries of the European Union, including Estonia itself. Does anyone, especially the Prime Minister of Estonia, who should, above all, stand up for the competitiveness of the people of Estonia, our companies and our country have reason to be proud of it? It all seems to me to go according to this system that praises the fool and the fool jumps.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U15	Thank you. I think that it is right for all of us to see the European Union in these colours and tones, as we wish to see. When it comes to posted workers, whom you mentioned in some way, you said that we were keeping, or what the word was, I am absolutely convinced that this agreement, which was reached at the Council meeting, was carried out by the Minister of Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski, is a very strong agreement. I also said in my speech that the arguments that sought to reach an agreement and find a balance had been going on for years. As I also said, differences of opinion led to the emergence of groups of countries. But that agreement was reached. Indeed, it took quite a few hours to run this council, and it took some time to do so. So I don't think it's a bad deal at all. No, it wasn't a bad deal. The role of the Presidency is to reach agreements. I am absolutely sure that Estonia would have kept the same line even if it had not been President-in-Office, it would not only have been our task to find a balance and a place for an agreement. I have been told by so many people that this agreement was necessary. I would say that this agreement was one of the most important agreements during this Presidency. What is the main objective of this directive? This is to ensure that workers are treated fairly across the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U16	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have confirmed here that the Eastern Partnership Summit was a success, a good joint declaration was adopted, etc. My question is how this brings Georgia and Ukraine closer to the European Union, for example. From your point of view, what should these countries in particular do, what changes be made so that we can speak seriously about their membership of the European Union in the visible future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U18	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll answer that question a little bit more. We have to start somewhere. I will start in 2015 and Riga when the previous European Union Eastern Partnership Summit was held. Since then, much has changed, and it has changed that certain Eastern Partnership countries have gained visa liberalisation, it has changed that the possibility of an association agreement has been created. Now the question is, how do we go from here? We all understand that the Eastern Partnership does not equal enlargement. I'm gonna get back to that idea. How can we proceed from this Eastern Partnership? I think that this programme, I am pleased that this time the Eastern Partnership Summit has been held in Brussels in particular, is very specific. There are 20 specific directions for us to move forward until 2020, whether these connections are between the Eastern Partnership countries and European countries, whether they are better lending conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in the six Eastern Partnership countries or whether it is very important, I would say that a jewel in the best sense within the European Union, that is, the same Erasmus+ programme, its extension and its additional resources. I think that your question is actually more about what these concrete steps or actions should be, so that we can say at one point that you mentioned Ukraine from these six countries and Georgia are Member States of the European Union. This is another way, this is another area, this is no longer the Eastern Partnership. Here is the question of whether these countries want this and whether these countries are prepared to carry out these reforms. I can rely on my own personal knowledge. I think that many of the six Eastern Partnership countries really want this and are actually moving towards it. If you ask me what my recommendation is to them, it is, of course, to reform and meet the requirements. Well, I think it's actually possible to move on with that. How long before it gets here? I don't think there's any point in predicting that right now. It seems to me that one of the very great values of the European Union's Eastern Partnership policy this time was that, on the one hand or on the other, the real steps that we want to take and what we can do were promised, not allowed a year or two or three after the new wave of enlargements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U19	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U20	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You called on the Member States of the European Union to invest more in R &amp; D than has been the case at the European Union summit in October, saying that investing in R &amp; D is not a luxury, but a necessity. Your statement was highlighted by the former head of the innovation centre of the Stanford Research Institute at the innovation conference held last week in Tallinn. According to him, Estonia spends less on research and development. He asked why the Prime Minister's words and data on Estonian R &amp; D expenditure did not match. My question to you is why your words and actions in the field of research and development do not coincide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U21	Thank you for this important question. First of all, I will stick to what I said at this conference. I had a chance to go personally to the SRI or Stanford Research Institute a few months ago, this summer. I certainly support this principle that Estonia must increase its contribution to research and development. I answered the questions of the honourable members of the Riigikogu a few weeks ago and spoke about the importance of this priority for Estonia. All governments have spoken of this priority and this 1% priority. The question is, when do we get there? I would look here not only at the public contribution, but also at the private contribution. The current government has taken this course to do everything possible to maintain or increase levels. The budget for next year, if you approve it, is based on this principle: maintaining or raising levels a little. So I say to you, looking in the eyes and trying to somehow beside Jürgen Ligi, who is talking to you, Mrs. Sulling, to gain attention, that in any case I am working to ensure that the contribution of the Estonian public sector to research and development grows.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U22	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U23	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. Indeed, as we have said, and as you have also mentioned, during the Presidency, very many influential and necessary decisions were made. You mentioned the small business sector, the digital economy, the e-Directive, e-commerce, the migration crisis, the security crisis, tax policy, etc. You also said that we still have a few things to do at the end of the line and that the Presidency is not finished at all. What else do you expect from this end of the line? Perhaps you will mention some aspects, such as some decisions or negotiations that are in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U24	Thank you. Speaking of such big things, there will be a meeting in Paris on December 12th, if I am not mistaken. It is very strongly linked to climate and environment and is taking place within the framework of the Estonian Presidency. I certainly look forward to making decisions and finding solutions in a number of Councils. I myself will participate in the European Union Council on mid-December, 14 and 15 December. I certainly expect us to be able to put specific PESCO issues in place there, specifically in the area of defence. I am very happy that, on the evening of 28 September, decisions were made in Tallinn, with which the Member States stated that they wanted to discuss more among the leaders together, and Donald Tusk took this issue very forcefully. I am certainly looking forward to progress in these areas. So environment, climate, defence. These are very concrete steps that need to be taken in less than four weeks. What am I looking forward to? I expect that, at least on 15 December, we will be able to take a concrete step for these 510 million people, and this step is a step of clarity with regard to Brexit. We know that yesterday there was a job between the President of the Commission, the Prime Minister of Great Britain and the main negotiator. The messages aren't very hopeful yet, but there's hope. So it is important that it becomes clear in concrete terms what people's rights are and what legal regulation will apply to citizens in one direction and what the future relationship between the European Union and Great Britain will be. These are some of the markings that are still to be expected during the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U25	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, the compliment for the appointment of Arvo Pärt, the speech of the Prime Minister, will certainly make the appointment of Arvo Pärt stronger. Now, of course, it would have been correct to mention Vladimir Beekman, because Arvo Pärt, if I am not mistaken, is still the author of the music, but Vladimir Beekman owns this immortal quote from our childhood hero. That's it. I very much agree with the part of your speech where you commended Estonian officials who, using basketball terms, often took on the game. This is a team game, and somebody's gotta take care of it. Only praise for it, it wasn't ironic in any way. The question is how the state of Estonia plans to use this new experience of a very large number of people, perhaps, even more precisely, what will happen to these people after the Presidency is officially over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U27	Thank you, dear Taavi in the garment. There's a lot to learn from you. I thank you for educating me in the cultural field in the introductory part of your question, too. This is commendable and this kind of support from the Riigikogu is always very, very welcome. You mentioned that you too would like to praise the 1,300 people who often took on this game. Why are you being so modest? You're the one who ran the game in a lot of ways. I say you see, politician Taavi Kõivas did a very good job on this. I am not afraid to tell you that you have prepared this Presidency well. It was certainly a very difficult situation when it turned out at one point that Britain would not come up with a Presidency carousel. Maybe the difference between us is that one sees only one thing and the other sees a little bit of a wider picture. But that's it. What you mentioned, of course, is a problem. I think it is, above all, such a human matter of motivation. It is true that these signals have already come to the point that people are asking that they have done a very interesting job for six months (which may also add up to the preparation period), have participated in a lot of negotiations, have done international work, have done a very responsible job, but what is now their job front after 31 December or even after 15 January when some people's employment relationship and employment contract end. Well, that's a pretty tough nut, I don't think we're gonna get another Presidency. If we say that it is okay, wait until 2036 or when this new Presidency should come to Estonia, say, purely mathematically, and then we will go on together, it is certainly not motivating. So it's a pretty tough nut to motivate people who have a really big experience, a very big bag of knowledge. I think that this must certainly be the focus of national human resources policy. Some people go back to their jobs in ministries, but I'm sure many people want new challenges. I know that in some areas... [[Break.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U28	Let me remind you that the negotiations are after the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U29	I can't disturb the members of the Riigikogu, I don't have that right, so...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U30	Can we continue, Jürgen Ligi? [[A voice from the hall.]] It's gonna be a while. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm sorry for the disturbance. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U31	Thank you for this opportunity. I know that in some areas officials have also been proposed by the next Presidency to go on a team to pass on their experience there. This is a new experience for Estonia in how to solve this issue of staff. Well, that's a complicated challenge, isn't it? In any case, I agree with this raise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U32	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The leaders of several European research organisations and organisations are very concerned about the stagnation of investment in research and innovation in Europe. Did and how forcefully did Estonia raise this problem during its Presidency? I know, of course, about the call made by Tallinn during the Top Science Conference. But considering all these possible cooperation programmes and the design of the whole budget for the next period, how strongly and how forcefully this was the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U34	I don't know where to look. When I think about what was asked back here a few questions, it wasn't like it was a topic at all, was it? There was one sentence, and that was it. But if you ask whether this was the subject, I will say that, of course, it was the subject, it was the subject of several meetings, it certainly was the subject of the work front of the Minister of Education and Research. For example, the first follow-up of the Leaders' meeting, which took place after being agreed here on 28 September, took place in Gothenburg, the Kingdom of Sweden, after the social summit. Its format was precisely the discussion of leaders on cultural and educational issues. This also took place in the framework of the Estonian Presidency. There was a great deal of scientific debate, there was discussion about the activities within the European Union, but not only, in fact, there was also discussion about university cooperation and contribution to our neighbouring continents, such as Africa. So science has been in focus, yes. When it comes to what is happening at national level, the question is what is our ability to achieve the goal. The question is not whether we will get there, we will definitely get there, the question is how soon we will get there. So science was on the table. There's no way I can say he was of little importance. As I said, the first meeting of the leaders in principle after the meeting in Tallinn was related to education and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U35	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! The members of the Riigikogu certainly do not want you to feel uncomfortable at this point, although there will also be sharp questions. In my opinion, this talk, which seemed so beautiful compared to everyday life, actually needs a different approach, and therefore the issues that come from the hall must be taken into account. But I cannot agree with you to the end that reaching an agreement is an end in itself and that reaching an agreement in itself is already positive. That's why I'm going to ask you again. Businesses have also talked a great deal about this Posted Workers Directive. You have confirmed that workers are now in better conditions, but businesses have expressed themselves in such a way that some workers are probably no longer posted because competitiveness is right. How do you disprove the words of these skeptics that this condition is clearly holding us back compared to yesterday's or today's conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U37	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, thank you for your support, this is really important. But what I want to say is, don't look at Europe in such black tones. That is positive, that is progress; it has been one of the fundamental pillars of the Estonian Presidency to see unity, positivity, progress, sustainability, strength, the values that Europe has given us. I really wouldn't paint black clouds. I see that this is progress. Either way, we're in a better place today. I gave an example of thunder clouds. In any case, the sky is not cloudless, but there are no black and heavy lightning clouds. Now from the Posted Workers Directive. What do I say to that? I say first of all that, of course, this is a very political issue, and it was our duty as President-in-Office to deal with it. That is what everyone actually wanted from us, both those who opposed this directive and those who were in favour of it, all wanted a solution to be found, so that a decision is made, not that it is simply discussed, but that no decision is made. Let us be honest, even several presidencies had not been able to propose this balance when we are talking about a balance between Eastern and Western Europe. Estonia's negotiated solution was also supported by a large part of the Eastern European countries that have adopted the draft so far, when we look at this end result. The role of the Presidency is, in fact, to seek compromises. Given the complexity of these negotiations, the final result was positive. Let us look at the final vote: only four countries opposed and three abstained. Estonia did not lose this agreement because the main objective of the Posted Workers Directive, as I previously replied to your fellow Member, is to ensure that workers are treated fairly. Yeah, you can look at it from a lot of angles, of course. On the one hand, it can be said that some postings are excluded, as you said, but on the other hand, it can also be seen that those who are posted will receive a fairer treatment and will receive a greater reward. So it depends on which side to look at.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U38	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U39	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, don't take it personally. I said the same thing in the previous government, but I think it's gotten a lot worse. I think you could discuss the appointment of a language advisor. Let's start with that title. So how does that sound? Action on the political side is a short sentence, but as much bureaucracy as there is, up to parasitic words, it is difficult to stick one phrase. In fact, the language used by ministers has been getting worse and worse. I'm sorry, if you took it personally, take it. The question I had was the same as Urmas Kruus asked, but still. This decision, which you congratulate, has still been taken as protectionism, which is why Estonia is a loser. Do you actually regret that this decision is so controversial? Estonia will certainly find it harder to get employees to Europe in the future, and service providers will lose because of this, they have said so. Or are you only happy with the decision as such?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U40	Thank you for your question. It is clear that it is impossible to make only those decisions in the 28 countries that, I don't know, fit one of the 28 countries. We can't do that. The rules of the game are different. The rules of the game are that we find consensus, we find common ground. If we could have written this Posted Workers Directive alone, assuming it was suitable for all 27 others, I don't know, maybe in Estonia it would have been written differently, but it is such a wishful thinking box. You're asking me if I'm happy with it. Given the rules of the game in the European Union, the position of the Estonian Presidency and also the position of Estonia, and if all of them are summed up, then, yes, I am pleased with this work. I think it showed Estonian officials, ambassadors and politicians from the point of view that we were working to find this common part or consensus. In my opinion, this conference, which was the final stage of this work, was best described by our Minister for Health and Labour, Clyde Kull, in the national broadcasting interview. I think it was the best. Yeah, I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U41	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U42	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a very proud feeling to inform you that our party organized this unqualified action at the Cultural Boiler on this beautiful autumn day. While you were brezhnevously kissing on the door of the Cultural Boiler, our goal was to remind you that there was a troublesome thing like the people. I think we did very well with this, so we met the goal that we had set. However, the question is quite different: the question is that you did not answer Mr Helme's question, from which you have taken this mandate, so that, during the Estonian Presidency, you will take consistent action in favour of both the Workers' Directive and the so-called compromise proposal on refugees, which will actually move even faster towards a common European policy, in other words, towards the federalisation of Europe. You have no authority to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U43	Thank you. These steps have not been taken. The Estonian Government and the members of the government have based their decisions only on decisions taken either in the government or in the European Union Affairs Commission, in particular in the European Union Affairs Commission. These points of agreement have been brought before the Committee on European Union Affairs. I would like to say, in answer to the first part of your question, that I have based my Presidency solely on what is important to the people of Estonia, which is important to the people of the European Union. That's all I've been doing, and that's what I think all these decisions are about. My sense and belief is that if we look at any level in these 27 countries, whether they are honorable ambassadors, ministers, officials or leaders of states or governments, when we are making decisions or discussing matters, I think that all the time it is based on what it means to this girl or boy, to this woman or man, to this grandmother or grandpa. I think that if the European Union is no longer based on this, it will be a very big problem. But I sincerely say that I believe that this is the value of the European Union, that it comes from it. The truth is, I can't compare mine with your life experience, you have more experience. But it is also true that all these six months or, let's say, five months and a few days after Estonia has played the Presidency role, I have always thought that if you come before the people of Estonia, be it in the community house, at school, in the work group, anywhere, what you can tell them about what is really the greatest value that the European Union has offered them. What do I think it is? I think it's just one word, and that word is "peace." This was, in fact, the reason why the European Union got into the wings of the wind at one point, and it has played this role very well. I think it is, in fact, the greatest value that we carry forward, whether we are holding the Presidency or not at one point. This is what I think people want most: that there is peace and not war. Thank God my eyes haven't seen the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U44	Rein Randver.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for this review. You also touched on our living environment in your presentation. We know that production is relatively resource-intensive in several countries of the European Union. Our goal is to save nature, but also to be competitive. How do you now assess the climate change package at both EU and international level? Are we moving towards this goal, which we know we have set for 2050, that emissions will decrease by 50% compared to 1990 levels?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U46	Thank you. This is the next issue, moving forward from the previous question and answering you. I am really proud that the European Union is the front man who holds the whole climate on the table most strongly. The European Union is doing this to make our environment, our climate, cleaner, better and more sustainable for future generations. I really appreciate it. The European Union has been lucky on this issue. I only recently replied to Mrs Tuus-Laul, a member of the Riigikogu, who asked what was still ahead. On 12 December, there will be a very important meeting in Paris in this area. Despite what other parts of the world or countries may be doing, this is where Europe has shown, I think, a very solid backbone and united action. I really appreciate it. Estonia certainly does not want to be a follower of this policy; it wants to be a partner and a leader. But it is clear that there is a need for hard work in this area and that this area needs a strong innovation. I would say that climate policy is actually a resource policy. I think, by giving a concrete example, that the same digital society is part of how to behave more environmentally. There are, I think, many of these ministers and the former Prime Minister who know that when guests are taken to the e-office or to the e-governance room where the Government of the Republic holds sessions, we very often say that these sessions are paperless. I use such a comparison that Estonia, thanks to e-services and digital development in both the private and public sectors, misses a pile of paper about 300 metres high each month. 300 meters is the height of the Eiffel Tower. So I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U47	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Prime Minister! In your speech, you also brought forward a meeting in Gothenburg, which endorsed the Pillar of Social Rights, which aims to create more social justice in Europe. However, it is known that social protection issues, with the exception of insurance, have so far been the responsibility of the Member States, i.e. national issues, but now they want to move far further. I am particularly concerned about this third pillar. We are talking about minimum incomes for everyone in the same way, we are talking about pensions, health care, people in need of long-term care, integration, homelessness, access to social services, this list is very long. However, my question concerns whether you consider this objective to be achievable and realistic. Are we not taking a bit of a long step, given the very large differences between Member States in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U49	Thank you for your question. I'll start with a general principle. This is because this pillar is not legally binding. There are very many of these areas and the problems you listed exist in Estonia, they actually exist. I certainly want to mention the declaration of values, the establishment of values. It will continue to be a national issue in the future, as you said. So let's go through this chapter III. It is called Social Protection and Social Inclusion. For example, the same childcare and child support: the right to quality and affordable early childhood education and care. It exists, it exists. Social protection: the right to adequate social protection regardless of the type and duration of the employment relationship. Further, let us look at unemployment benefits, for example: adequate activation and unemployment benefits to integrate or reintegrate into the labour market. You mentioned, for example, income in old age and pensions and health care: timely access to high-quality, affordable and preventive care. The question now is how we are going to go internally in the direction that this social pillar document, which contains three chapters, for example, we are taking the same health care. It is the choice of the country, which are the treatment queues, which are the funding. This is really an Estonian question. I am pleased that one of the very important reforms and priorities of the current government has been to increase the funding of the Health Insurance Fund and reduce the number of treatments. The country must come up with concrete steps, and not just the country. I think that in some places it is a question of local government, depending on how well or badly it takes over this principle. Of course, there will always be a question of what level of transposition we can take. It is certainly also important that the more advanced the country is, the more people expect it. So I think that's the question of quality or threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U50	Tanel Winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'll come back to this digital meeting. We have talked a great deal about the importance and success of our e-services here, and you have also emphasised this today. At the same time, the fact is that the people of Estonia, especially in rural areas, cannot easily use these excellent e-services, for the simple reason that there is no or very poor Internet connection. I know that the government coalition has done a great deal to ensure that this problem can be solved and the 'digital divide' reduced. Can you also assure our esteemed guests and the Estonian people that in the first half of next year the light cable, which allows this affordable and reliable internet, will begin to reach people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U52	Thank you. In short, I can confirm, of course. There is only one 'but' here, depending on whether the honourable Riigikogu says that the draft State Budget Act 2018 is ready for adoption at third reading or not. But if that's the case, of course. Recognition here in any case for today's coalition and coalition partners. For my part, I say that we have a specific financial dimension so that fast internet in Estonia can be sent faster, as you said, with regard to rural areas, scattered areas. As we know, this is important in Estonia, because there is a great deal of dispersal in Estonia. There are a lot of beautiful farms in the forest, and we need a fast internet to get there. It provides mobility and enables people to come back to the labour market and to be on the labour market and to work. So the answer is yes. What are the main keywords in the digital field? Point 1, this was the first digital summit. Point 2, my proposal to the President of the European Council was that I would like to make this digital summit my conclusions, which we could discuss at the next European Council. That was the case, and I am pleased that the Council included a great many of these principles in its conclusions. What does that mean? This means that these are the final conclusions of 28 countries. This means, in fact, that we will no longer ask whether Europe is analogous or digital. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about Europe being digital, we are going forward together, it is a coherent and clear attitude. In my opinion, the most acute question that I answered here before is how we can work together digitally across national borders in the European Union. But in the light of Estonia's developments, I say yes, you are right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U53	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U54	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I would like to thank Prime Minister Ratas for a very good presentation and an admirable Presidency. Throughout Europe, familiar politicians have expressed their sincere enthusiasm for Estonia. So you, the government and all of us, have received great praise from Europe. But I will also come to this same Gothenburg summit. What did you personally take as head of government for Estonia to reduce inequality and poverty in our Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U55	Thank you. If you will allow me, I will say once again that this has been a team game, it has not been the work of one or two people. I think it's right that if we did well or badly, those who are maybe a little further away from us will appreciate it. The other Member States are saying how it is suitable for them and, of course, our own people are saying it. What did I bring there? I think it is important for both employers and employees that the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union all together have agreed that these are the key messages, these are the values, and that our society must develop in this direction, whether at national or local level. I had the opportunity to sign this European Pillar of Social Rights, I did it on behalf of 510 million people and 28 countries. I think it was very responsible. What did I bring? I said it before. There are a lot of questions. Firstly, equal opportunities and access to the labour market. This is actually a problem, the problem is even the same issue that you have raised in society and rightly raised, namely gender equality. This is not a pointless issue, it is a very important issue, it is a matter that is dealt with every day. Equal opportunities and equal rewards, be they women or men. Active support for employment is essential. These are actually important topics for Estonia. The current level is perhaps not what we want, it is certainly not what we want. Fair working conditions, while flexible employment, are essential. We have discussed quite a lot in this government about what to do in order to change the terms of parental benefit or maternity allowance so that if either the mother or father wants to go back to the labour market at one point, he will not lose all parental benefit or maternity allowance, but he will be able to go to work and get this benefit further. It should be more flexible. I think these are definitely important things. Go on, right to fair pay. Whether we want it or not, there are really areas in Estonia that need to be raised in any case. I mean teachers, in the field of internal security, but also social welfare, where the situation is very, very difficult and very painful to look at. As far as we can, we will. There will be a 4.5% wage increase next year in social welfare, the police and the Rescue Board. Is that enough? Absolutely not. But it's some sort of progress, it's not standing still. I think that we must certainly all, together, think about the issue of care for people who need long-term care at all. This is a difficult area, I also know from my own experience. In any case, there is a need for more help from the public sector there. These are some of those areas, I think. All these chapters are actually important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U56	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U57	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I come to what my colleague asked earlier, but you did not answer. What about the preparations for the next budget period? As we are discussing the European Union here, it is clear that this is about the next budget period for the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U58	Thank you. I think the situation is pretty busy and the work will definitely continue even stronger in 2018. You were talking about the next period, not next year, I got it. For next year Estonia has done its job, the budget that I have read is well prepared and received strong support. But this main debate will come next year. Of course, the question is that if Britain leaves, which is the new compensation principles, whether or not it will pay more, whether any other funds will be involved. There's an argument about that. I think the situation is working, and the European Union will certainly be able to manage the next budget period. I think what matters to us is what has always been important. For example, investment in infrastructure or interconnections should certainly continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U59	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Indeed, in an hour and a half, we have had a very good overview of what has been done during the Presidency. Thank you for all these very respectable answers. I'd ask you, I mean, I'm asking you this. So many countries have now been visited and met with so many heads of state and other people. What has become one of the biggest problems in Europe, for which you think a rapid solution is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U61	Thank you. If Estonia is compared to a ship, it can be said that we have tried to take advantage of this opportunity to improve and strengthen bilateral relations with the whole ship. Like I said, we've been trying to get closer to the others and make more friends. It's true. There is a great deal of time devoted to this, both before and during the Presidency. I personally met bilaterally with the leaders of all these countries before the Presidency, and I met with the leaders of a few countries in July. What is the most difficult subject to bring out only one? If it's okay with the questioner, I'm gonna bring out two themes, combined with a slash. Of course, the most topical migration issue at the moment is/Brexit. It is important how these negotiations go. There is a lot of positive here, I can say, for example, certainly how even more schools, students, etc. are covered by Erasmus, but these are two difficult issues. I very much hope that the Estonian Presidency gave such a sense of co-operation, consideration, empathy, understanding. These have been the actions and keywords that Estonia has always considered during the Presidency. They are not part of one area, they are not related to any particular area, but I think that this has been our role.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U62	Inara Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U63	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this presentation. Estonia and Europe as a whole have always stood for economic growth, and they have also considered the balanced state budget of all countries to be of great value. However, more and more has been said that, alongside economic growth, more attention should be paid to people's well-being. A European welfare study has been published, with the following lines: 'A large number of people agree that one of the main objectives of a democratic government should be to pursue a high level of well-being. In the past, most countries tended to give more importance to growth rather than to focus directly on prosperity. At the same time, the link between growth and prosperity is not as direct as you might think. This implies that, instead of focusing solely on growth, policy-makers should focus their attention on the real ultimate goal of people's well-being. ' My question is what the Estonian state and Europe as a whole should do to improve people's well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U64	If the manager allows me, the next two hours will be mine. I think that all the areas that we have discussed here today have actually been covered by the fact that people feel safer, more secure and better about their lives and that the situation of our business will become easier, that the creation of businesses will become even more flexible and faster. That's positive. When I look at the honourable MPs in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I can say that at least in the European Union we see economic growth in all countries, we see that many millions of new jobs have been created in the European Union in recent years, we see that Europe is moving forward. What is Europe's major challenge? This is how we can achieve that Europe's population is rejuvenated rather than ageing. These are very fundamental and forward-looking questions on how to achieve the best living environment in Europe compared to its competitors. I think that's our goal. How can we achieve the best, safest and safest business environment in Europe compared to competitors? I think that all these issues, whether the social pillar we discussed, or the digital sector, the economy or the environment, can be developed together so that people in Vormsi and Piirissaare, but also in Portugal and Spain, feel more confident.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U65	Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I want to join you in saying that, indeed, today, at the end of the Presidency, the hundreds of people who have worked to ensure that the Estonian Presidency in the European Union can succeed could be thanked. I think we can say with peace of mind that everyone who has been working for this for the last few months has done so in the best way possible in Estonia. But I am asking perhaps in the hope that the hundreds of people who have come to the aid of this Presidency will find the best application after the end of the Presidency. The question to the Prime Minister is a careful one. We have raised important issues during the Presidency. If you look at next year and European policy from the point of view of the government, what could be the priorities on which the government will focus when Estonia is no longer holding the Presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U67	I think that the priority is to make every effort to ensure that growth continues in Europe. We know with which Bulgaria will come out during its Presidency, this is a neighbourhood policy, mainly with regard to the Balkans. I think that the Eastern Partnership is an area where we need to move forward. If I think about Estonian politics next year, whether we want it or not, there will be an increasing number of issues. During the lunch of the leaders in Gothenburg, the heads of state also pointed out how to contribute to education, until it was discussed whether Europe could exist, I don't know, common universities, discussed how to better integrate the university network, and the subject of vocational education was also on the table there. These are the policy areas. It is clear that Europe is getting a whole new direction as a result of PESCO and even stronger defence cooperation. This is what Estonia has always contributed to. The direction, I emphasise once again, is by no means to duplicate NATO. I think and I have also said that one very big challenge is that Estonia must also think about and contribute to this very issue of migration and migration. We're not standing here alone, we're standing with the others. The environment is certainly also important, climate change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U68	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. No further questions for you right now. You will, of course, be able to speak at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U69	Oh!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U70	I now invite Toomas Vitsut, Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee, to the Riigikogu Chair for a presentation. The duration of the report shall be up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Honourable guests! Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 June 2016, the United Kingdom decided to leave the European Union. This meant that the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union began six months earlier. We are used to preparing thoroughly for Presidency-like challenges, and we have already started working on this in 2012. I welcome this decision at the time, which allowed us to adapt quickly to the changed circumstances as a country. We have shown that Estonia is a country that can be trusted and willing to assume the responsibility of the Presidency even if it has to be done six months earlier than planned. This is a dignified act of a dignified country! The Prime Minister focused his review on the government's work under the leadership of the Council of the European Union, while the Council Presidency also has a parliamentary dimension. This meant an obligation for the Riigikogu and an opportunity to lead five parliamentary sessions and one working group and to establish their agenda. The next semester, there will be a meeting of the Parliamentary Secretaries-General in Tallinn. The Presidency of the European Union of the Riigikogu ends the meeting of the spies of the parliaments on 23 and 24 April 2018. Therefore, the Presidency of the European Union of the Riigikogu is only halfway through. However, being halfway does not mean that we cannot summarise the work of the Riigikogu Presidency today. I would therefore like to highlight the issues on which Parliaments focused during the last semester on the leadership of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs. These are: the future of the European Union, competitiveness and security. Good friends! Molière has said: 'We are responsible both for what we do and for what we have not done. 'If there is anything that has taught us since Brexit's decision, then how connected we are in Europe geographically, culturally, historically and economically. It is therefore in our interest to achieve good results in the Brexit negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union, and also in our common responsibility. Leaving the negotiating table must be avoided even if there is no agreement. In an effort to stick to the time frame set, decisions must be made in a transparent manner and in the interests of the citizens. If I look for something positive in Brexit at all, I would point out that it was Brexit that opened a substantive debate on the future of the European Union. In the context of this debate, I myself have considered two questions. Firstly, should we shake ourselves out of the comfort zone and set targets for the European Union that go beyond one European Parliament electoral cycle? Secondly, how can we shape the future of the European Union in such a way as to push us more together instead of being separated from each other? These issues became the starting point on which we built up the discussion of the future of the committees of all the parliaments of the European Union and the shaping of a common position at the Tallinn meeting. Parliaments stressed in the common position that whatever decisions we take on the European Union must always consider the impact of these decisions on future generations, i.e. to look further ahead and be guided by the principles of sustainable development. Together, we found it important, in the long term, to keep the internal market at the core of the European Union, to work for even better physical and digital integration in Europe and to achieve a level playing field in the development of the various regions of the European Union. We highlighted the importance of reducing social and economic inequalities. We welcomed and interpreted the crises that hit the European Union as windows of opportunity that will help to implement bolder reforms. Moreover, we also agreed with the Member States' committees on European Union affairs that the European Union must continue to expand and remain open. For example, in our common position, we stressed the importance of European ambition for the Eastern Partnership countries, linked to enlargement. Close cooperation between the European Union and the Southern Neighbourhood countries is also necessary to ensure stability and security in the European neighbourhood. One important criterion for assessing the sustainability of the European Union is certainly whether the number of Member States is increasing or decreasing. National parliaments have given priority to the citizen of the European Union in the debate on the future of the European Union. We clearly agreed that citizens must be more closely involved in the choices about the future of the European Union. In this respect, national parliaments have a major role to play by making the debates of the European Union more open and inclusive in the parliaments, and by bringing more and more of the European Union's questions to the plenary sessions of Parliament for discussion. Our citizens expect clear and practical solutions. The greatest enemy of the future of the European Union is ignorance. Ladies and gentlemen, The untapped potential of improving the European Union's competitiveness is the growth potential of our innovative start-ups. At the sitting of the Presidents of the European Union Affairs Committees of the Parliaments held in July here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, we found that there are many success stories of start-up growth in the European Union. This is particularly true in areas such as financial services, digitised music or virtual games. Since many start-ups in the European Union have designed their services in the "business-to-business" model, they are not so familiar to consumers. However, the success stories of start-ups could also be in many other areas and much more. During a joint discussion in Tallinn, the parliaments found that start-ups need measures to increase the availability of capital and the opportunities to find partners in the scientific community, small and medium-sized enterprises or large investors. It is important to improve access to public procurement for start-ups. Work should also be done to bring together start-up centres in different Member States into a single European start-up ecosystem. The growth of start-ups is hampered by various barriers in the EU single market, in particular those linked to tax policy, labour market policies and bureaucratic obstacles to the implementation of legislation. During our Presidency, we found together in this Chamber of the Riigikogu that public authority should intervene only where the state's contribution is most visible, for example, in the education system. The Estonian information technology company Sten Tamkivi, who participated in the debate, stressed: "Business is supported by the creation of a space of values and a learning environment in the school that encourages the courage to ask, invent and present its works. ' The mobility of talent is very important for start-ups, which depends to a large extent on the availability of visas. Members of Parliament shared the view that we in the European Union need innovative programmes designed specifically for this area and that we should look around the world for people who can participate in them. Of course, when it comes to the competitiveness of the European Union, it must not be forgotten that traditional businesses in the European Union must adopt innovative digital solutions. At the same time, start-ups are certainly an area where we have positive experience in Estonia and whose development we wish to keep an active eye on in the European Union Affairs Committee. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is important for the citizens of the European Union to be safe both at home and abroad. This is also one of the reasons why the European Commission has made security issues its priority in recent years. Within the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency of the European Union, we focused primarily on combating terrorism and radicalisation in the debates of the European Union's committees. The key issue here is better security information and the sharing of this information between Member States. None of us want to see people being attacked by firearms, puss knives and cars on the streets or elsewhere in public space. On the other hand, this is an area of our fundamental rights, where the need to collect and exchange personal data and the privacy of citizens must be balanced. It is therefore very important to use information properly and to organise this work at EU level. In this light, Parliament's European Union Affairs Committees took a common position in Tallinn, stressing the importance of data management at European Union level and the interoperability of different databases and information systems. Action at EU level as well as in the Member States was considered essential in the fight against terrorism. It was found that particular focus should be placed on protecting public space, for which the corresponding package of European Commission initiatives is also intended. MEPs in the Member States of the European Union stressed that prevention is the most effective instrument for counter-terrorism. Therefore, greater attention should be paid to the root causes of terrorism, i.e. anti-radicalisation measures, such as the suppression of hate speech or the rapid deletion of terrorist incitement material published online. It is known that radicalisation takes place largely in the virtual world. Parliaments' discussions recognised that cooperation with large internet service providers should be promoted and addressed through better cooperation between the public and private sectors. Security issues are also closely linked to the protection of the European Union's external borders, where much progress has been made in recent years. The Schengen Borders Code, the system for the recording of entries and exits into and from the European Union and the requirement for the collection of travel data have been adopted. The discussion of Parliament's committees on European Union affairs developed a common understanding of the importance of Parliament's role in ensuring that these decisions can be implemented quickly and correctly at Member State level. Finally, I would like to say a few words about cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu on European Union matters. During the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, information about the programme of the government's Presidency, along with its implementing part, i.e. the thematic pages, arrived at the Riigikogu quickly and at the right time. The Riigikogu was informed through the European Union Affairs Committee about the work of the government in the Councils. Ministers have been active in the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I would like to thank them for this on behalf of the Commission as a whole, especially in view of the increased pace of government work and the number of external missions. However, as of 1 January 2018, the Estonian Government's Presidency in the Council is over. Now that we have the experience and contacts of the Presidency, we expect that our ability to influence decisions at European Union level in the interests of Estonia has also increased. I therefore hope that our people, who have contributed to the success of the Presidency in both Brussels and Tallinn, will continue to deal with Estonia in the public sector. On behalf of the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs, I would like to stress that the materials concerning the European Union must also reach the Riigikogu after the Presidency in a timely manner and in such a way as to give the committees time to get calmly into the subject. I believe that, in the first instance, the Riigikogu must be presented with views on matters of the European Union initiated during the Presidency, which are politically sensitive and have the greatest economic impact. The government will soon be over the finish line of the Presidency and the parliamentary dimension will be over. I, too, want to thank all Estonian politicians and officials who have devoted their energy to the success of our Presidency. In particular, I would like to thank the Presidency of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, headed by Siiri Sillajõe, and all members and officials of the European Union Affairs Committee. I would also like to thank all the politicians belonging to other committees and the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu who helped to hold parliamentary sessions during this semester. The Estonian proverb says that the work praises the performer, but serious workers must also be appreciated and remembered by the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have some questions for you. Andres Ammas is starting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U73	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I have the part about the start-ups in your report. You said, among other things, that it would be important to improve access to public procurement for start-ups. After all, it was only this law on public procurement that we did in this Chamber and on several occasions. It's like I don't remember talking about this start-up problem in any way. What's their main problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U74	Thank you. I think that no law that we have adopted in the Riigikogu is so ideal that it cannot be improved at any stage. The start-ups are certainly in a somewhat unequal situation by nature when compared to larger companies that have been on the market for a long time. They have less experience on the one hand, fewer contacts, less practice to rely on, and, as a rule, smaller competitors than those involved in public procurement, i.e. already in their starting position, they are in a weaker position than larger and more experienced firms. In order to get them into the wings of the wind, it is likely that legislation should also take this into account and give them some support. If you ask me what exactly should be done, I certainly can't say it on the move. This is certainly a question that needs to be thought and understood in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U75	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Vitsu! I ask what your position is, whether Estonia could have taken a different position on the Catalan issue than we took, and whether the invitation of the Belarusian leader Lukashenko to the Eastern Partnership Summit did not go there, but the invitation was given to him in a legitimate situation where civil society clearly protested against it, because there are still political prisoners there and the political murders that took place during his power are unsolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U77	Thank you. I'll start with the other side of the question. After all, the Eastern Partnership Summit is not just intended as a platform for cooperation between the leaders or governments of these partners. We still want to see our eastern partners develop in order to have a more similar understanding of things in the future and to have more common values. At this summit, apart from Belarus, there were other countries on which we have been critical and pointing the finger at certain things, be it Azerbaijan, where the bribery scandals that have taken place have really shaken the European Union, but yet we are not saying that we are not inviting this country to the summit for this reason. My point is that the invitation to Belarus was not personal; we cannot treat it as an invitation to Lukashenko. We are still inviting the country, and we expect that, in some perspective, developments there will be in line with the values and objectives of the European Union. Now, first part of the question, Catalonia. In the Catalonia conflict or case, there is a very difficult situation in this respect that there are two opposite values: national sovereignty and integrity on the one hand, and the right to self-determination of peoples on the other. Choosing a party in this situation is probably quite difficult and has certainly been difficult for Estonia as well. When we became independent, of course, we expected other countries to recognise our right to self-determination. At the same time, it cannot be overlooked that Spain is a sovereign state and that Estonia must fully recognise the integrity of that state. The process in the form it took place in Catalonia was not quite such that Estonia could very clearly take sides with the right to self-determination of peoples and say that we are on this side and somehow we cannot. I think that our restrained behaviour was justified in every way, and that does not mean that Estonia has somehow changed its assessment of the values that we consider important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U78	Good waitress, there are no more questions for you. Now we are opening negotiations between the political groups. First on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U79	Prime Minister! Good manager! A dozen honourable Members. Honourable ambassadors! Good friends! Allow me, too, to join the previous speakers and congratulate our excellent community of presidencies. You were the face of Estonia and Europe at a time of tension, but certainly also of challenges. I believe that the legends of our industriousness and interesting and practical solutions have been confirmed for a large part of Europe in these months. Thank you also very much to all the close relatives and families of the people involved in the Presidency, as many of us probably had more hours than before when, at the expense of sleeping and dealing with children, some important decisions or meetings had to be prepared. Since today's debate is taking place in the Riigikogu and the Presidency also had a parliamentary dimension, my special thanks also to the parliamentary groups of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the other Presidency. I am proud to confirm that every meeting we meet is remembered with great enthusiasm. Thank you, good officials, volunteers and the whole Presidency community. In his last speech to the European Parliament, President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker outlined the five main objectives and some additional objectives of the European Union. I can only agree with the main objectives that have been set, and I think that it is Estonia that should be a loud-speaker in the debate on these issues. He pointed out the strengthening of European trade policy and the strengthening and competitiveness of the industrial sector. I would stress that Estonia could share its experience with its colleagues on innovation and digitisation. I am pleased that the fight against climate change remains a priority for the top management of the European Union and, of course, for Estonia. Protecting Europe in the digital age and protecting intellectual property, cultural diversity and personal data remains important. Cyber defence is set in focus and the Commission wants to set up a European Cyber Security Agency. Again, these are the areas where Estonia will be able to play a major part in the next year, after the transfer of the presidency. Next, migration. It is important to protect the external borders and to ensure human conditions for refugees. From now on, there are three areas for active action: enhancing return policy, solidarity with Africa and encouraging legal migration. In this regard, I would like to emphasise solidarity with Africa and cooperation with Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. I would particularly like to point out Turkey, because this country, thanks to its cooperation with it, has significantly reduced the migratory pressure on Europe in recent years. Unfortunately, it is not even within the European Union that we see all countries working so actively to resolve the migration crisis. Mr Juncker pointed out a few other proposals, some of which could be discussed further, but among them, I believe that there are also those that should not be very long discussed, such as the creation of pan-European electoral lists or the reduction of the number of Commissioners from the European Commission to 15. I do not imagine that the discussions on these two issues will come a long way, but there are no lies or the right things in the debates, all things need to be discussed. I would like to look more closely at two of the priorities for the future. I agree with the Prime Minister that Europe must keep up with technological progress and make it work for its own benefit. It is great that the free movement of digital Europe and data is no longer just a priority for Estonia, but a goal for the whole of Europe. I believe that the Tallinn Summit in particular contributed greatly to this understanding. As the previous speakers have long stopped on this subject, I am not going to repeat what is self-evident to us, but I am going to add an important topic that could be a locomotive in the development of which Estonia and the Nordic countries could be. But before that, I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U80	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U81	I believe that one of the biggest challenges in the coming years will be the future of work, the future of technology and the human relationship, and what will be our employment relationship. Let us admit that it is also the time to deal with it, because today's normality in relation to the employer and employee dates back to the post-industrial revolution and has remained essentially unchanged for decades. I have also said several times from this speech chair that the state cannot blame technology because it is developing too quickly, it must blame itself if it has introduced it too slowly. I am pleased that the Development Monitoring Centre, which was convened by the Riigikogu last year, has taken the analysis of future employment relations as one of its subjects. Yes, much of the traditional jobs are lost. But thanks to technological progress, the widespread take-up of technology and new opportunities, more jobs will be created. The McKinsey report presented last week in Tallinn highlights the possibilities and main activities that should be focused on. To this end, we do not need the posted workers' directive, civil wages or higher social benefits, but the rapid implementation of technology, the education system supporting people's retraining and this development, especially given Estonia's ambition to build a global digital state with the e-resident community. Now from the future of the defence field. If history has taught us something, surely it is that the independence and security of any country is not something that is self-evident. As Estonians, we have agreed in the Constitution on the unwavering will to secure our country. The state's defence will begins with an individual. The foundations of Estonian national defence are equally collective protection and also independent defence capabilities. Protecting those who want and know how to defend themselves. I believe that we should follow the same principle more closely in the European Union. That is why I am extremely pleased that President Jean-Claude Juncker has put the subject of European defence cooperation on the table so seriously, and I am pleased that the Estonian Government has decided to make a loud and inclusive contribution to this issue and to participate in this cooperation in the future. I would also like to highlight one of the concerns. That is fiscal policy. In order to be credible on this subject, we need to set an example for ourselves. When Estonia, after the global financial crisis, adopted the objective of following the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which was crowned with the transition to the single currency, it was considered to be a standard for the future. Unfortunately, the last year's decisions - albeit national -, in particular the abandonment of budgetary balance, are characterised by a departure from this principle and the departure from the club of the countries that are taking serious action on this issue. This may not have an impact on the short term, but it will certainly have a long-term impact on both the future of domestic finance and our place in the club and place at this table in these countries. My time is up. I would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have remained in this Chamber, Mr Prime Minister, all the officials, the entire government and the entire team for their Presidency. I hope that the issues presented before the European Parliament in the future speech of the European Commission will be counter-reflected here, in the debates in this Chamber. Then we will move in the same rhythm as the time used for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U82	Marianne Mikko, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has never been as much in Estonia as in the coming year. Estonia took over the Presidency of the European Union earlier than we planned. We had just a week to think about whether or not we are lucky for Europe instead of the UK. As an increasingly pro-European Member State year after year, Estonia decided to be worthy of its name Estonia and Europe, even as a celebration of great symbolic value to us, one hundred years of independence, we will only celebrate next year. Together with the Council of the European Union and the European Commission, we began to develop the priorities of the Estonian Presidency. In fact, it was not too complicated because our e-state has become our brand, which is why it was expected as one of our priorities. The Digital Summit in September fully justified Europe's expectations, as well as our own hopes, perhaps even more. Things are taking place in the European Union for a long time. Therefore, if the free movement of data that is so important to us as the fifth freedom of the European Union relates in future to the conviction that yes, this decision was born in Tallinn, then we can all say together as a society that we are part of the modernisation of Europe. Believe me, this is a dignified gift for our 100th anniversary, it is very much in the spirit of Noor-Estonia: 'Let us be Estonians, let us become Europeans. " In fact, this is a step forward of the century: " Let us be Estonians, let us lead Europe. ' Each tallinian came in contact with the ministers of the European Member States this year. The elite of the European Union heading for the cultural boiler did not make our people angry, even if traffic congestion was sometimes longer than we would have wanted. We understood that this is what Europe needs, as is what we ourselves do. We learned from the first source how decisions are made in the European Union. From time to time, it is so difficult that the compromise decision will not be reached until early in the morning. One of these was the Posted Workers Directive. To hope for success in the adoption of this directive was indeed wishful thinking. But I would like to ask you once again to make a pail for yourself: Estonia was a good negotiator, gracefully listening to everyone and taking the tension off the other side. In the last month of 2017, we can be satisfied to note that the chain is operated by the most flexible part of the chain in the European Union, Estonia. By the way, the social pillar summit in Gothenburg in the European Union also took place during our Presidency. It was a historic event. Therefore, we can calmly claim that our priority, an inclusive and poverty-reducing Europe, has been implemented without any price reduction. It is important for our people that one of the important areas of the Presidency, which remains important to the European Union, is the security and defence policy. It is during the Estonian Presidency that PESCO, the European Union's defence cooperation form, takes a firm form. This is not an alternative to NATO, but an important milestone for Europe, by which Europe assures itself and the world that it really wants to defend itself with the European forces. I will also mention the European Security Union and security. During the Estonian Presidency, the issue of migration has been constantly discussed, not so much in the key to quotas, but in the context of the implementation of general principles. The voice of our internal and foreign ministers has been a language of weight in this regard when they have led meetings both within the European Union and in Africa. It is quite clear that strengthening the European Union's borders is a favour for Estonia. The fight against terrorism, the exchange of intelligence data, the immunity of the Schengen Agreement, the amendment of the Dublin Agreement, these are issues for which there is no one answer, but Estonia did not ignore these issues. But it is quite understandable that they will be sending the next President-in-Office of the European Union to Bulgaria, as obviously Austria, who will be President-in-Office since July 2018. Did you do anything? No, I didn't. Nor does the Paris climate agreement, as the Prime Minister noted. However, should the Eastern Partnership Summit have ended by allowing Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia to join? It could've ended, but it still has to be on the ground with two legs to figure out what's possible at some point and what's not. The Presidency is above all about keeping Europe together. Estonia held and continues to hold the European Union together. As President, Estonia has a straight back and a clear voice. The European Union is more united than a year ago. Even if one of us wishes to leave, this departure will take place on the basis of the common position of the 27 Member States. All kinds of rumors of the European Union falling apart, of the harp and of growing away from each other are not true. It is this message that the Estonian Presidency has effectively communicated to the world, despite the dissemination of false news. Strategic communication is more important in the European Union than ever before. We in Estonia know this well. To sum it up. When I referred to Noor-Estonia at the beginning of my presentation, I will end by quoting the song series 'Being Estonian is proud and good' from the end of the 1980s. On behalf of the Socialists, I would like to thank the government, headed by the Prime Minister, thank the Riigikogu, officials, journalists and all the volunteers involved in organising and conducting the Presidency. Thank you. We have shown with the Presidency that there really is no Eastern and Western Europe, nor is there a new and old Europe. Estonia proved that there is only one, viable, 21st century Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U84	Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group in Monika Haukanõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U85	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable ambassadors! For the first time, Estonia is in the role of President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, and it makes sense that both the Prime Minister and we also focused on this great task in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Our main objective, as is the case with all the presidencies, has been to keep the European Union united and developing, while centralising the well-being and security of citizens. This is in the direct interest of Estonia, taking into account our history and geopolitical location. That is what we need to do in decision-making. A year ago in this Chamber, we focused mostly on issues such as Brexit, the refugee crisis and Turkey. In a year, these issues have become clearer, and we can also focus on other issues. In order to bring the European Union closer to our citizens, we need to focus instead of bureaucracy on practical solutions that need to increase stability and security in people's lives. If we are to make the European Union more understandable, decisions must be negotiated, understandable and, above all, necessary. It is important to avoid overregulation. Decisions must not only appear fair, but must also be fair to all. The European Union can demonstrate its strength and success and increase faith if the decisions to be taken do not favour one group of countries to another, because there is power in unity, without doubt. However, in the interests of unity, everyone must take a few steps back to move forward together and must stop treating the old and the new Member States differently. There is no way to overcome the common agricultural policy, which is still strongly in the direction of the interests of the so-called old Member States and absorbs too much of the European Union budget. Perhaps now is the time to achieve more equal treatment in this historically important basic policy as well? Or, at least recently, the concern raised that food coming to different Member States is of different quality. This situation must end immediately, because all people must be treated the same way, it is not that what is not good for one is very good for another. Unfortunately, Estonia has not explicitly expressed its position on this issue either. In addition, it is still a concern that we do not, however, treat the large and small countries and the countries of Eastern and Western Europe in the same way, although the previous speaker stated this relatively firmly. Freedom, equality, the rule of law, these are part of our values and many principles. At the same time, during the Estonian Presidency, there has been a resounding reflection on the subject, which has also been mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber today, that we have made a major breakthrough with the Posted Workers Directive. I would like to ask how the principle of equality is, however, whether the interests of the so-called small countries in the outermost part of Europe are protected in the same way as those of the great powers of Western Europe. Actually, it's not. This was, in my opinion, one of the disappointments that had to be experienced during the Presidency. Good guys in the hall! The Presidency means drawing up positions taking account of the interests of all Member States, while remaining neutral. That's the way it has to be. At the same time, however, we cannot forget the interests of Estonia; they also need to be protected during the Presidency. At times, however, there is a feeling that the interests of the Estonian state have remained in the background during this period. It has often been heard in this Chamber that we are accusing the European Union of a great many things. We often take a condescending view of issues coming from Europe and Brussels. Often we accuse the European Union of unpleasant decisions, doing so in style... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U86	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U87	... that what we can do, we must do what is required, although we do not want to, because Brussels commands. It would certainly be time to overcome this attitude now and now and to think about whether we have done everything we can to ensure that the decisions that come from Europe are in our interests, whether we have talked about them from the start and whether we have explained them to our citizens in a clear way. Probably worth looking at yourself critically. With a view to the future, it is necessary to find a balance in society as to how far we want to go with integration, for example, in the social dimension, in the European Union's defence cooperation and in its finances by deepening economic and monetary union. These are issues that must not fall off the tables, and we must also open a wider debate in society, because it is no longer a question of more or less Europe, but, in fact, of the need for a better Europe. We can draw some conclusions already. First of all, I also want to warmly commend our officials and volunteers, who have done an excellent job, which often does not stand out, but which is crucial and often lets us politicians drive the wave of success. Our events were organized excellently, on a high level, all worked out with almost German precision, and there were only a few major bypasses. So we can say that we have done our first major organizational schoolwork very well, at grade 5+. However, if you look at the political contribution of our Presidency, you can no longer be so benevolent, even though Prime Minister Ratas gave a very positive picture of what happened. We have been modest, even a little timid, and we have avoided raising acute issues, we have moved by subject and by type, be it migration, climate and environment, including forestry, industrial development or strengthening competitiveness and trade. You can probably give us a good schoolboy grade for that. Certainly, in some of the situations we faced as the Presidency, Estonia would have expected stronger endurance and the courage to defend values. May Catalonia be the first example. In addition to criticising the behaviour of the Spanish authorities, it could have been condemned. The failed style of resolving the Catalonia crisis certainly made the European Union weaker. Another example is the Eastern Partnership Summit. First of all, the question of whether countries such as Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova will ever have the hope of achieving membership of the European Union. There was no very precise answer. The third example of these things, which we failed quite badly, was the invitation to the meeting of the Belarusian dictator Lukashenko, which he very proudly refused. Finally. Estonia needs the European Union. Given our small size and geographical location, the European Union is our security argument; it is our biggest partner. On the other hand, the European Union needs us as a small, pioneering and good Member State to set an example for others and set a 'positive example'. I hope that we have not lost this success with our last year's dubious national decisions once and for all. How we can defend our interests in the European Union and contribute to it with our ideas is already up to us. I wish all of us the strength to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U88	For the Conservative People's Party, please, Jaak Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U89	Prime Minister! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, before the official part, it is certainly worth thanking Monika Haukanõmme, the previous speaker who mentioned German accuracy, because everything Germany said was done. A few more weeks and Estonia will conclude the Presidency of the European Union. On the one hand, it is appropriate to assess the work done by Estonia, but on the other hand it is necessary to look at the overall state of health of the European Union as a whole. It can be said that Estonia succeeded in the Presidency. And he did. What was expected of us was done, the meetings were held, and there will also be a follow-up to the next Bulgarian Presidency. At the same time, the question must be asked whether it was worth EUR 75 million. It has to be recognised that the Presidency is largely a beauty function, that it is actually very difficult to influence political decisions, especially when it comes to starting with the view that it will remain neutral on more acute issues. But in the end, the end is good, all good. However, when it comes to what has changed in the European Union during our Presidency, it must be said that the main problems have not been resolved. Migration flows, although lower than in 2015, are still comparable to 2014 flows. As of two weeks ago, over 160,000 migrants had come to Europe this year. Moreover, it is not, in fact, the intention to make a political decision to intervene, either in the Middle East or in the North African countries, from which, as a result of the activities of human traffickers, the same migrants will go to the Mediterranean in order to move towards Europe. A situation where the problem is being addressed by centralising the asylum system is unsustainable and further increases tensions between Member States. The irresistible desire of some Member States to shift responsibility for not being able to guarantee effective border protection to other countries undermines trust in the European Union and increases the need for new political forces. As President-in-Office, Estonia proposed an informal compromise a week ago to find a solution to the key elements of migration policy. I agree that there were a number of good and sensible points. For example, one of the aspects of solidarity that has been said very much is that aid is provided in the form of technology, assistance teams and economic support to countries in distress with a migration problem. However, these proposals have been taken very little into account and have not been considered as solidarity. There is no way to agree with the proposal that the European Commission should tell all Member States in advance how much migrants it should receive. Estonia proposed that this should be done in the light of the population and economic characteristics of each country. The direction of migration policy is to be decided by each Member State and the European Union as a whole does not have the right to interfere in the independent policies of the Member States. Another important issue is security. Cooperation between the countries of the European Union in the field of security is important, but, unfortunately, we need to be very careful about deepening our security cooperation so that NATO does not have the urge to be copied. You can't make a new form of cooperation without paying anything. It'll cost you. NATO's structure has proven itself and its development is the most serious solution in the current security situation. It is no secret that many European superpowers are looking at the new administration of the United States with a long tooth. However, this skewing must not be an incentive to create double systems that are already weak at source and do not work. The countries of the European Union that belong to NATO must, as a matter of priority, fulfil their duty by contributing at least 2% of GDP to the defence budget, only then can the creation of double systems be discussed. The European Union cannot take for granted the situation that 73% of NATO's budget comes from the other side of a big puddle. Thirdly, Brexit negotiations must be mentioned. Before that, I'll ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U90	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U91	As has already been mentioned by the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, we must pursue the interests of both sides in Britain's departure negotiations. However, the aim of the European Union must not be to punish the British for having dared to swim in the opposite direction, not in the Eurofederalist direction. The atmosphere of the negotiations cannot be based on the perceptions of Guy Verhofstadt, who is the negotiator of the European Parliament, the permanent British people, but on the perceptions of pragmatic people who understand the importance of the United Kingdom to the whole of Europe. Finally, something positive. Europe is changing. The winds of change are clear: in all the major elections in Europe, the right-wing national forces have significantly strengthened their positions. What is most delightful, however, in the second half of the coming year will be the Austrian Presidency, where the elections were on 15 October, the same day as we had the local elections. The Austrian electorate decided that the absolute majority of the two parties would be met by strong national conservative forces, namely the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party. This gives hope that, exactly one year after the start of our Presidency, the Presidency will be initiated by a state governed by the principle of a nation state. In the last sentence, I will not present a long list of those whom I thank, but I can say that, despite very large differences and world-view conflicts, I have at least reason to thank both the current Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the former Chair, Kalle Palling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U92	The word has also been asked... But before I give the Prime Minister the floor, Kalle Palling has a wish to clarify something.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U93	Thank you. As my colleague mentioned my name, I will take this opportunity to say what I did not say at the end of my speech, because the time has run out. What we are talking about here is our home, our home country and the European Union in general, what we are talking about in the European Union in both a positive and a negative key, is being amplified more than ever by technological solutions, social media, online media. So if we really want the European Union to become better and more effective and we would all be better here, then we still have to think about what we are talking about and how we are talking about, and explain more to our citizens what this European Union is and what Estonia has to gain from it. Looking also at how many MPs are left in this Chamber at the end of the debate, it can be said that many people outside this Chamber have a great many evil words to say about the European Union, of course, there are also good words, fortunately there are more of them than evil in Estonia, but let us use the opportunity to discuss here that it would be better in the future, there is no need only to do so somewhere on social media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U94	It's clear. We're done. Before we can close this item, the Prime Minister has once again asked for the floor. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U95	Honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, good guests and honourable ambassadors, all of you listening to this debate! I thank the Riigikogu for the opportunity to participate here today, I thank you for this debate. I have quite often considered during our Presidency (although I certainly do not know the names of all those who should be thought of) those women and men who, in the early, middle and second half of the 1990s and at the beginning of this century, dragged this process into reality that Estonia's two major steps were made by the European Union and NATO (at the moment we are talking about the European Union). Definitely bowed to these people! Very many of you have been in very many compositions of the Riigikogu and have done this work during several formations. Here is Mr Ammas, who was in the last Supreme Council, and here is Mr Nestor, who has been a member of all the configurations of the Riigikogu. They certainly have made a huge contribution to these issues. I thank you all for your speeches today. I think what you said about family members is definitely true, Kalle. It really took a lot of breath. Thank you for your speech. Mrs Marianne, your speech here in the negotiations was very touching, very sweet, it was very forward-looking and talked about keeping together. Thanks for that. It touched me, at least. Dear Toomas Vitsut, good Thomas, you are leading the European Union Affairs Commission. In a way, you and I are in quite a similar position: we have been in opposition for a very long time and came to the front at a very difficult moment. Appreciation for you and the entire team of the European Union Affairs Commission, its members and its officials. I agree with Jaak Madison as strange as it may be, I agree with the recognition he said about Kalle Palling, and I also recognise the many previous leaders of the European Union Affairs Committee. I, too, have had the opportunity to work with many of them in different formations, so it was Marko Mihkelson, Taavi Rõivas or Kalle. I also thank the Riigikogu for its own sake. I thank you for having had the opportunity, in fact, to serve the Estonian state during the Presidency. Thank you for that. A great bow to the board of the Riigikogu for an understanding attitude throughout the Presidency! I would say about the future cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government that cooperation with the Riigikogu will continue in the usual way, as it was before the Presidency. We have identified all the drafts initiated during the Presidency, which require Estonia's views, and we have prepared a timetable. This means that in the first three months of next year, all the positions of the government that have been postponed to the Riigikogu committees at the beginning of 2018. I'll finish this with the German idea. I will be honest with you that I have missed Germany, especially in the last few weeks. I think that the whole of Europe has missed Germany in the best sense. I look forward to putting together the German Government and getting it to work. Thank you once again for today's debate. I thank you for your support, for your actions and for what you have done in the framework of the Estonian Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U96	Thank you, Prime Minister. The debate on the first item is closed. We don't have to take a decision here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U97	We can go to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Financial Management of the Local Government Unit, initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control. For a presentation, I would like to ask Aivar Sõerdi, Chairman of the Special Committee for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U98	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The need for this draft emerged from the National Audit Office's review entitled 'Overview of the problems of auditing the annual accounts of local governments' and the discussions that took place on the basis of this review in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The Commission has discussed the issue at as many as seven meetings of the Commission: 15 February, 20 March, 10 April, 17 April, 5 June, 12 June and 11 September. In addition to the representatives of the National Audit Office, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Auditor Assembly have also taken part in these discussions and a written opinion has been requested from the Ministry of Finance. This draft drawn up by the Commission has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the National Audit Office and the Auditor Assembly. I'll give you the bill. In order to ensure that, after the administrative reform, the sworn auditors cooperate more closely with the local governments, and in order for the new local government council to have a better overview of the problems encountered by the municipality through the merger, it is proposed to amend § 29 (10) of the Financial Management Act of the local government unit. The amendment consists in supplementing this section, adding that before approving the annual report at the council, the audit committee will examine the annual report submitted to the council and hear the audited auditor, and then prepare a written report to be submitted to the council. This is the first change. The second amendment relates to the fact that in spring we had the law amending the Audit Act and the related amendment of other laws, and as a result of the change there, the local authority is no longer a public-interest entity. As a result of this spring change, the additional requirements of the auditor's report are no longer valid in local governments, i.e. the so-called long form does not apply. In order for this longer form to apply also to local governments, we propose that § 29 (13) of the Financial Management Act be amended. As regards entry into force, the draft law should enter into force on 1 January 2018, but the annual report for 2017 is subject to an earlier version, i.e. the version of the Financial Management Act of the local government unit in force until the end of this year. That is the content of this draft. I'm ready to answer questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U99	Good waitress, you have questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I understand that this is a very positive draft, which increases the role of both the auditor and the council review committee and facilitates their cooperation. In the course of this preparation, was there any further mention of improving the overall efficiency of the council review committees so that they might also be able to use the funds themselves if they needed the assistance of an auditor in analysing some of the issues? Budgetary resources are needed for this. What is our common practice? It is good practice that the audit committee's municipal council is led by a representative of the opposition. How much is this being followed in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U101	Thank you. That's what we were talking about. In particular, if the annual report is revised and the auditor has to evaluate the annual report, the cooperation between the audit committee and the auditor could on the one hand be more intense and, on the other hand, the work of the audit committee itself could be more meaningful, especially in auditing the annual report. One of the major bottlenecks that exists in practice and is also described in this report of the National Audit Office is that if an auditor pays attention to accounting accuracy, the existence of assets and their accounting, in practice, less attention will be paid to how the financial sustainability of the municipality is ensured or, for example, if the municipality is in a difficult financial situation due to a debt burden or for other reasons, what are its reasons and how to get out of it. These are aspects that are not always central to normal financial audit. But the emphasis in local government should be on these issues. Consequently, the audit committee should also have a comprehensive and comprehensive overview of these problems. It is precisely cooperation with the auditor that is important and that the information that the auditor reveals in the audit of the annual report is also made available to the audit committee. In practice, so far, the municipality government orders auditing from the audit firm and the auditor communicates with the municipality government, the audit committee is excluded. It's a bottleneck. However, as regards the composition of the audit committee, the representation of the opposition there and the leading role of the opposition in organising the work of this committee, this is definitely where the situation in local governments is changing. For the better, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U102	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U103	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Was there any discussion of this draft, or was there already known about the scandalous audit of the Tondiraba Sports Centre in Tallinn? Was this a precedent for proposing such a draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U104	Thank you. That's a good question. I was not myself in these discussions, but I know that Tondiraba Hall certainly could not have been the subject of this discussion, as the analysis was based on the review by the National Audit Office and this review covered the observations on auditing of the annual reports for 2014 and 2015. But in the future, this bill, I think, will help make sure that this kind of trouble doesn't happen in the local government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U105	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U106	Thank you, Mr President. It reminded me of the Gym of Tondiraba, so I can move on from here. Has there been a question of principle that the internal control of the municipality should be independent? We have seen a precedent when internal control has done a very good job, but for political reasons, the audit has been put under the bed for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U107	Thank you for your question. This topic is, of course, very important. This draft does not have such a broad scope for resolving all issues related to the internal auditors of the municipality, but indirectly also contributes to internal control matters, as the Audit Committee has an important role to play and this draft contributes to improving the performance of the audit committee and may also provide additional resources to improve the effectiveness of the audit committee's work. Indirectly, this will certainly contribute to the functioning of internal control systems. I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U108	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. If the co-rapporteur is very quick, this item will be closed today, otherwise it will be pushed to tomorrow. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U109	Mr President! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 21 November. The Head of the Local Government Financial Management Department of the Ministry of Finance was present and announced that the Government would fully support this draft. No questions came up. The decision to send the draft to the first reading today was taken by consensus. The deadline for submitting the amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 19 December (10 working days), and the chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-05_U110	Good waitress, no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak, which means that the first reading of draft 525 has been completed. This is what the commission proposed, and we have approved it. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 525 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 19 December. Dear members of the Riigikogu, today's agenda is well exhausted and one minute remains until 1 p.m. Good luck with your work on the committees! I'll see you tomorrow at Question Time at 13:00. Closure of the sitting at 12.58 p.m.
