ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! Have a good week at work. Who wants to hand over drafts and inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U2	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! On behalf of six members of the Free Party, we have a question with a beard to be asked by the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. It relates to the excise duty on heavy fuel oil. The nature of the problem has been quite clearly summed up by the Minister himself in answering one of our earlier questions. Indeed, market distortions are caused by the fact that, given the energy content of heavy fuel oil, excise duty has been taxed approximately nine times lower than light fuel oil. We have asked the Minister of Finance this question before, both in the form of a written question and in the form of an inquiry. Then it was another government of the Republic, not now. But Sven Sester has promised us that the Ministry of Finance will prepare legislative changes to prevent both market distortions and tax fraud. And he said they were to be discussed by the cabinet at the end of last year. Then the change of government, and we have not heard of any further solution to this problem. That is why we are again asking questions about the excise duty on heavy fuel oil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U3	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I will present an inquiry to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. In Japan, there is a specific station where a passing train stops twice a day: in the morning to pick up a girl who goes to school for a violin lesson, and in the evening to shoot her when she comes out of school. In general, a decision has been taken to close the entire railway line in the future. What, though, has the company decided? Keep this line open until the girl graduates. For three years, I've fought Don Quixote's fight with a concrete company called Elron, who, by demonstrating national arrogance, refuses to make two experiments. Feature: Passengers are low, demand is not low. And as Elron's board announced last November to the city councillors of Tartu, neither the state nor Elron cares about traffic in Central and South Estonia. The arguments are manipulative numbers, number of passengers, passenger factor, aggregate demand, availability of alternative bus routes. In short, questions that Elron lacks competence, will and ability to decide on. For Elron, passengers aren't passengers, just demand, contingent, coefficients. According to Elron's logic, in those places where rural and provincial people live in Estonia, those who preserve Estonian culture, language and independence do not need to provide services. According to Elron's logic, a stop with 100 passengers is as important as a stop with only one passenger. They have forgotten that one hundred passengers and one passenger are equal from the point of view of the state. I would add that Elron has also opposed the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have seven questions, but the main question is: Minister for Economic Affairs, what will it be, Elron or a girl with a violin on the Tabivere railway platform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U5	Thank you. As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching ten draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Act on the application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents and other laws. Secondly, the draft law ratifying the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court and the Agreement on the Establishment of a Regional Office of the Nordic and Baltic States. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure (transposition of the European Investigation Order Directive). Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act (Implementing the Nagoya Protocol). Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Sixth, the bill to amend the Law on Animal Protection. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Seventhly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. Eightth, draft law amending the Defence Service Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Ninthly, the draft law on the ratification of Eurocontrol's Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Protocols. 10th, the draft law on ratification of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the last two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U7	I have adopted ten draft laws and two inquiries on behalf of the board. We will continue to deal with them according to the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The Management Board of the Riigikogu has proposed to change the timetable of the 13th working week of the Riigikogu on the basis of § 48 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Question Time of the Riigikogu today at 13.12.14. It will be approved in the normal way, as we have changed the timetable in the past. An example is the extension of working time. Aivar Chef, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U8	I'm asking about Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U9	First we settle Tuesday and then we talk Wednesday. Honourable Riigikogu, we need to vote on this proposal by the Riigikogu Board. I am voting on the Bureau's proposal to change the working week schedule and to make Question Time today at 13 to 14. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, against 1 with 3 abstentions. The proposal was supported, the working time schedule has been changed. I would like to remind you that this time the Question Time can be registered until 11:00 today. Adoption of the agenda next. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U10	Good manager! The usual time we've had is that the third readings are always off first and then everything else. Why is Wednesday different?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U11	On Wednesday, it is different that the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority wish to present the report first. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U12	Thank you, Mr President. No doubt people's wishes are sacred, but we have our own traditions that we have so far followed. However, the third readings have been the first. In my opinion, it is completely unjustified for us to give in to someone's wishes and give up our traditions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U13	Honourable Riigikogu! Since no one has made any proposals yet, questions have been asked so far, I will answer the questions. This is because many of our traditional waitresses on Wednesday will be on Thursday this time. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu therefore asked the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority to appear before us on Wednesday. This has been a request from the Riigikogu Board, since the usual Wednesday performers come on Thursday. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U14	Thank you. I have a proposal for how this situation can be resolved so that the Governor of Eesti Pank can come forward on Wednesday and we can stick to the established traditional procedure in our regular years. I propose that the third readings scheduled for the third and fourth item on Wednesday be made first on Wednesday and second on Wednesday, and the first and second on the third and fourth on the agenda. This would enable a satisfactory outcome to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U15	Does anyone have a problem with this proposal? No, it's not. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U16	We only have five weeks left, and we have all sorts of interesting questions here. My question has nothing to do with today or tomorrow, but it is very clearly procedural. Knowing the board's ability to work, I'll give you a heads-up. The question is that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, members of the Riigikogu are prohibited from presenting video material during presentations. I do not know what the reason for the ban is, but it is in short that video material can only be used for the debate on a crucial national issue. Would you be able to review this decision within five weeks because of this need?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U17	This proposal did not concern the agenda, but if Igor Gräzin has such a request, the Bureau may discuss it again. We have discussed this several times before. Hanno Pevkur, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U18	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. We have also repeatedly looked with the Chairman of the Riigikogu for an opportunity to discuss a key national issue. One reason why we could not plan this by 4 May was that the report of Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority had to be on that day. Now they're here for Wednesday. In all this confusion, I understand it's a proposal from the board that we have on the table right now. So we stick to this proposal, we listen to the representative of Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority, and then there will be third readings. If this is a proposal from the Governing Board and the Chairman, there is no reason to change it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U19	Got it. The proposal by Helir-Valdor Seeder was not supported. However, we also have a proposal from the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture has proposed that the fifth item on Wednesday be moved to the last item on this day. Honourable Riigikogu, with the amendment that the fifth item of item No 8 is on the Wednesday agenda and items No 6, No 7 and No 8 are moving forward, I will... Can't put it to the vote yet, because Helir-Valdor Seeder has something to add.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I understood from Mr Pevkur's proposal that they did not accept any changes and were based on the Bureau's proposal. This was a clearly stated will, so we cannot allow any other changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, there's a point in Helir-Valdor Seeder's note. [[Laughter.]] And I also did not understand why the point of the members of the National Broadcasting Council should move to the last item on the agenda. Let him be where he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U23	Got it. As the comment by Mr Ceder has a point, there is no change to the agenda. I will put the Bureau's prepared form to the vote on the 13th working week agenda. Please take a position... Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U24	I'd like to be more specific. How will it be put to the vote, with or without this amendment by the Committee on Culture? You said that after all the conversations that have taken place here, you would stick to what was at first. So, what's it like now, exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U25	That's right. Since the proposal made by Helir-Valdor Seeder was against Hanno Pevkur and the proposal made by the Committee on Culture was against Seeder and Herkel, the agenda will go to the vote as it is before you. Is everything clear now? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 13th working week agenda. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, 6 against and 6 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U26	Let's go! According to the agenda, the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'The Foundations of Estonian Security Policy' presented by the Government of the Republic is the first reading. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U27	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am honoured and pleased to stand before you today to introduce the renewed 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy', which was approved by the Government of the Republic on 16 February this year. If the honourable Riigikogu agrees with the Government of the Republic's assessment and decides to approve the strategic framework document on security policy, it will replace the previously valid document 'Basics of Estonian Security Policy' as of 12 May 2010. The document at issue today has been the fourth one since the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. For the first time, a document describing Estonia's security, its situation, its policy objectives, the challenges, risks and threats ahead and the measures to be taken against them was drawn up in 2001. The situation at that time and the objectives at that time were strongly influenced by the move towards membership of the European Union and NATO. After joining these organisations and the major changes in Estonia's international status and security arrangements, the foundations of security policy were renewed in 2004. Then, in 2010, the foundations of the current security policy were adopted, which took into account the experience and skills acquired in the meantime as a member of the European Union and NATO, as well as the changes in the security environment following the war in Georgia in 2008. President Lennart Meri has said that security is an expensive commodity. Lack of security is even more expensive goods. Although the basis of security policy is not a resource planning document, by way of exception, our readiness to allocate at least 2% of GDP to military protection has been confirmed. This is complemented by the costs of Estonia's host country as units of allies and the costs of the national defence investment programme. The process of drafting security policy was led by the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic and for the first time coordinated the work of the contributors to the foundations of security policy at the State Chancellery. It also shows one central change in our security policy thinking. Security is not narrowly armoured vehicles, uniforms and boots. Our well-being is guaranteed by a much broader approach. Security policy is the responsibility of all government members and public authorities. Therefore, all ministries were involved in the drafting of the document. In the coordination circle, however, every person in Estonia had the opportunity to contribute, for example through the participation website. In addition, the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu was consulted in February and September 2016 and in April 2017. As I noted, the Government of the Republic approved the foundations of security policy on 16 February, but work on this began much earlier. The first steps towards renewal were already taken in autumn 2015. So the fruit of almost a year and a half has been brought before you. I described the process thoroughly because it proves an important tradition rooted in Estonia. Despite disagreements on other issues, there is a political party-wide consensus on key issues concerning the security and defence of the Estonian state. Estonian governments have been consistent in the implementation of the security and defence policy. I thank and congratulate the members of the Government of the previous Republic and Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas, whose personal commitment and attention enabled this government to take over the work that has been done so far as a symbolic message stick and to finalise it into the vision and fundamental principles before you today. As firmly as the 99th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia at the concert hall of Estonia, Arvo Pärt's 'Ukuaru valsi' danced, Estonia will continue to glide in its security policy choices in the future. Due to the particular nature of the security environment, our steps must extend to both the physical and cyber world. This activity must become more comprehensive and more professional. Young and old and, in fact, the whole society must take part. Good ambassadors! What is the purpose of Estonia's security policy and the content of its strategy? The important shield of the Estonian state is our constitution. The aim of Estonia's security policy is to guarantee the values and fundamental principles of our constitution. Together we must ensure the independence and independence of the Estonian state, the sustainability of the people and state, territorial integrity, constitutional order and the security of the population in Leisi village and Narva city. In fulfilling this objective, we must take into account that tanks and aircraft, as well as cyberspace, trucks, power cuts, hunger and water scarcity, have an impact on today's security environment. Thus, our security environment can be undermined by very different but interlinked factors. Building resistance to such risks requires the contribution and commitment of all of us, cooperation throughout society, the coherence of which is an essential basis for security. I hate to speak or think about war, but the country must be prepared for even the most negative and unlikely situations. In any case, Estonia will defend itself against any overwhelming opponent. Moreover, in order to strengthen the message of insubordination, the document stresses that if the state temporarily loses control of a part of the territory, Estonian citizens will show organized resistance to the opponent in this area. Estonia's membership of the European Union and NATO will undoubtedly strengthen our security, which is emphasised by this document. Both organisations were created in the ruins of World War II to achieve and maintain peace on our continent. Thinking back on their story of evolution, we could perceive the weight of historical decisions. To this day, the European Union and NATO have performed their task brilliantly. For 13 years, Estonia has been a party to international cooperation, which is done by these associations symbolising peace and the well-being of societies. Through both organisations, we have received both practical and political support to meet our security policy objectives and to promote prosperity. Let us think of the huge market, the freedom of movement or the euro that has opened up before our entrepreneurs, as well as the NATO allies Tapal and Ämaris, which are a visible effort for everyone to support us. Estonia's future and security need every pair of hands. The spirit of the new security policy rests on strong active citizenship and society. Just as defence allies, relief officers and free-willed sprayers strengthen our security, the leaders of the 'Estonian Republic 100' and participants in the celebration of the patriotic jubilee will also contribute to this. Similarly, the successful performance of Anett Kontaveit and the presentations of Arvo Pärt's work in world-famous concert halls will enhance our confidence, strength and reputation in the world. The foundation of our well-being and security is not born in this hall, in Stenbock's house or in ministries. It starts with a family, a safe neighborhood. To this end, it is important to encourage and support leaders and active citizens. It is often through them that the best information on the specifics and needs of different regions, their families and communities reaches local authorities and governments. Our security is more secure in a highly interlinked society. It is a noticeable, caring and active member society. Our lifestyle is more reliant on ICT services year after year. For the first time, therefore, the basic document on security policy states that cyberspace in defence is as important as land, air and sea. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia is not a single island that is not affected by what is happening elsewhere. We see every day how aggression in Eastern Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea, increasing migratory pressures and terrorist acts in Europe affect foreign and security policy decisions of countries. It is understandable that these events also worry the people of Estonia. As a free and open society, we too must take into account the danger that hostile, often pseudoreligious ideologies here will be held up. During meetings with schoolchildren, I believe that, like all of you, I am asked about Estonia's security and protection quite often. Just as the world does not stand still, Estonia is moving forward and our threat assessments and guidance are changing. What, then, is the description of our security environment? The 2010 Security Policy Foundation document, which is still in force today, has estimated that the security situation in the Baltic Sea region is stable. As a change, the anxiety of the global security environment extends to Estonia as well. Estonia's security is primarily affected by the viability of the transatlantic security system, the relations between the countries of our immediate region, and the increased military activity and aggressiveness of Russia, which directly affects it. In view of these circumstances, military pressure and the likelihood of using military resources in our region are estimated to be higher than before. According to the analysis, this risk will increase if NATO's collective deterrence is not credible for some reason. At this point, however, I would like to draw attention to our assessment of foreign intelligence, according to which there is a risk that Russia will attack NATO countries directly, small in 2017. Military threats, however, are only a part of what deserves attention. Other risks and threats that do not know national borders and the sources of which may be difficult to identify have emerged. In addition, there is an increased chance that non-military tools and methods will be used to achieve the same objectives in symbiosis by military means. Social demographic factors must also be addressed among the risks. Both internally and internationally, uneven regional development, poorly adapted social groups and the division of society can affect Estonia's security. It is worrying that in Estonia, the European Union and the world have been under pressure in recent years by the creations that have so far held together different societies and external spaces. Polarisation increases the risk that, by focusing on other challenges, some vital security threats may go unnoticed at the right time. The risk of a more far-reaching impact is the ageing of the Estonian population and the decline in population, which should be considered today through the prism of security. Honourable ambassadors! In 2017, the Security Policy foresees that a total of 21 developments, broken down between nine sub-chapters, need to be pursued in order to succeed in the environment described. In order to reduce the so-called silo towers, the basis of security policy has abandoned the institutional division in 2017 and has sought to focus on sectoral needs, which may also require synchronised efforts from different authorities. I will briefly stop in these nine areas. The sub-chapters of diplomacy address Estonia's activities on the international stage, our faith in international organisations and the interest that NATO and the European Union are united and viable in their activities. It also underlines the importance of bilateral relations with the United States, as well as cooperation with the Nordic countries and Latvia and Lithuania. Attention will be paid to relations with Russia and the prospects for its development. As a neighbouring country, we are undoubtedly interested in the development of democracy and the rule of law in Russia and we will retain the opportunity for dialogue. However, the aggressive behaviour that has intensified in the last decade of our eastern neighbour makes it necessary to be united in the European Union and NATO, inter alia, as regards sanctions, until the root causes of their introduction have disappeared. The direction of military defence highlights the factors on which Estonia organises its defence, and on which basis the state will build up its defence system and defence forces. Self-defence, collective protection and defence in the broader sense will be clarified, including measures to be taken to address these problems effectively. As regards safe and constitutional law enforcement, it is stated that a safe environment is the guarantee of security, and its greatest challenge is the increasing diversity of threats and cross-borderism. It is crucial to ensure constitutional order that national institutions are risk-proof and consistent in resolving security-related issues. The subsection on conflict prevention and crisis management expresses the state's readiness to contribute to the security of Estonia and the whole of Europe and the world through participation in international crisis operations, both with military and civilian capabilities. It also stresses the importance of development aid, humanitarian operations and hand-in-hand policies. The economic security chapter looks at the risks arising from the economic environment. This will include a more specific focus on energy security, transport infrastructure planning and different aspects of security. The cybersecurity chapter highlights the principle that cyber security is organised in a uniform manner and with the same structural solutions, both during peace and in a war situation. The sub-chapter of the assurance of the living environment looks at the living environment as a component of people's sense of security and describes measures to make it better and more secure, while also reducing the vulnerability of individuals and increasing people's willingness to contribute to the development of the country. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There's a document in front of you that also uses the new word 'bounce'. It is the ability of society to resist negative effects and changes and to recover quickly from them. This is covered by a sub-chapter on society's beggars and coherence. It is the easiest way to achieve society's begness in a unified society of shared values, making inclusive, caring and tolerant social attitudes and valuing diversity important. The chapter on a more far-reaching future highlights trends whose direct effects may arise in the longer term, even in 20 to 30 years, alongside current threats, but whose preparation for neutralization requires timely awareness and far-reaching preparation. All in all, we're living in a troubled time. Despite security policy pull winds and shocks, Estonia has been doing well so far. With the current security policy for 2010, we ourselves and our friends have also managed to take several steps that significantly strengthen Estonia's security. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U28	The first question to the Prime Minister is asked by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The Prime Minister also plays a central role in the organisation of broad-based national defence, and I therefore ask in terms of administrative reform and population protection: is community security and resilience the responsibility of the community itself, local government or central authority for various crises? When it comes to shared responsibility, where does the limit of roles and responsibilities run? Why am I asking that? In my opinion, in the context of administrative reform, this issue is largely unnegotiated, it is not clear enough. And what are the positions of the different departments of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U30	Thank you for this serious question. In fact, the basic approaches of the document on which security policy is based are that society, as well as the government as a whole, must be looked at. That principle was also mentioned in my speech. We do not organise state life as ministries or so-called silo towers; we organise it cross-cuttingly. As far as local authorities are concerned, local authorities are an extremely important component of the comprehensive protection of the state. You mentioned communities in your question. A few ping lines behind the other are, in my opinion, a good example of voluntary sea rescues. This whole approach as a whole is a new direction in the draft of the foundations of security policy. If you ask how the tasks are divided between the state and local authorities, then cooperation is ongoing. And to ensure that the areas between these two lines are as few as possible. If we have a crisis, I do not know, from the drinking water crisis to the most severe, military crisis, how must one institution or another behave? We certainly cannot, by looking at this document today, think that it only concerns the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior or the State Chancellery. No, it's not like that! Thanks to administrative reform, the capacity of local authorities, the capacity to contribute to the foundations of security policy and to a more holistic approach to society will certainly increase. Their abilities are growing. The quality of these staff improves, they can plan better risk scenarios and be prepared for anything. It's very important. Having been working in one municipality, I know how important it is to have a very active activity at times of crisis. For example, there are quite frequent floods in Tallinn city, and difficult traffic situations also occur in winter in the capital city.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U31	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm not asking about this document. As you rightly said, it has already been prepared during the previous government, and it has undoubtedly been put together by the best experts in Estonia, whom I would like to thank very much here. We can argue here and discuss whether or not some of the steps taken by your government, such as a hesitant attitude towards international cooperation in combating hybrid methods or questioning the credibility of e-elections are contrary to this document, but I am not asking about it today. I'm going to ask you a more existential question. There is no expression in the verb here, but it is obvious to me that the most existential threat to Estonia comes from the Putin regime. Do you agree with this definition and how do you see the cooperation agreement between the Centre Party and the United Russia in this light?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U33	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. You are certainly a very skilled politician: first you make a long introduction, then you produce different topics that, as it were, are not important at all and you deal with them so, by the way, and finally you ask your question. If the Riigikogu allows me, I'll be sure to answer your questions. Not only did I say that these foundations were written by the previous government, but I thanked the members of the previous government, all the people who have done so, including Prime Minister Taavi of Clothing. I'm sure you've invested a lot in this place. I think that this is very extraordinary in Estonian politics, on the one hand, and very positive, on the other, that when it comes to security policy, defence policy or foreign policy, in these areas all governments have been in the same direction. We haven't changed that direction. You said that certain steps of the current government could be called into question. But I have emphasised that when we speak financially, the document on the basis of the security policy only deals with 2% of GDP. Everything else related to the relevant funding will come from the National Defence Development Plan 2017 to 2026 whose discussions have also been repeatedly held in the Committee on National Defence. One of the priorities of the current government has been national defence, a stronger contribution to it. This has not only been the case in words; it has also been a real contribution to strategic investment. In the next three years, the additional volume will be EUR 60 million, in 2018 2019 and 2020 respectively. You mentioned hybrid methods. I don't know if you meant it or not, but you probably meant the hybrid hazard centre and Estonia's possible accession to it. It is not a question of Estonia not joining the hybrid hazard centre. A total of 16 countries have discussed what this hybrid threat centre could be like in Finland, and Estonia has also been at the table there. 16 countries have agreed on one thing: everyone who joins the hybrid threat centre this year is the creators of this centre, and Estonia is among them. It's in the country's budget strategy, and it's also the decision of the government's last cabinet meeting that we're joining the hybrid threat center. You have also talked about e-governance Yes, I fully agree that e-governance must become more secure, e-governance must be clearer. But I have never said in opposition or government that Jüri Ratas is not in favour of e-elections. As regards the Putin regime and whether or not the attitude is sufficiently clear, it is set out on page 2. I quoted it. This is the last paragraph of the page and it is not difficult for me to read the sentence: 'Estonia will defend itself in any case and against any overwhelming opponent. " On the east side, is there the most likely military threat to us? Of course he's threatening! At the same time, I also made it very clear that, according to our external intelligence, this threat is low in 2017. My task as Prime Minister is not to sow war hysteria in the Riigikogu or Estonian society. It is my job to inform society immediately if this threat arises. But today it's not a threat.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U34	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U35	Thank you. Prime Minister! This document has, of course, been prepared for a long time. Very many experts have contributed, and they certainly deserve recognition. While I was preparing this document, I thought as Minister of the Interior, and when I read it, I think that at times we have remained general and inaccurate. Even the sentence that, in order to achieve the main objective, a world order based on the Charter of the United Nations must be maintained. It is relatively difficult for Estonia to ensure this. But from you, good Prime Minister, I ask you how you think the various documents concerning the security and security of the country are connected. We have the foundations of security policy that we are discussing today, there is an internal security development plan, there is a national defence development plan, developments in criminal policy, etc. How do you think they will connect and will they be changed in the future, because this document, which we are discussing today, says that this document is the basis for all other documents on security and security?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U36	If the questioner allows me, I'll make a side note so the last questioner can't say that I was sneaking away from the answer. It's just that Tavi Clothes had so many questions. You also mentioned the protocol signed by the Centre Party and the United Russia. I think I'm gonna explain for the 560th time that this protocol isn't working. There is no action within this framework and the foundations of Estonia's security policy are not affected in any way. The conclusion of this protocol 13 or 14 years ago does not make my words less clear. But now I'm answering the good questioner Hanno Pevkur. He first referred to the general wording of the document. No, I don't think the foundations of security policy are general. Security policy should be based on the most fundamental document that must be consistent with other policy-making documents in this area. As I replied to the previous questioner, the level of detail of the National Defence Development Plan 2017 to 2026 is different, which is more precise. During the weeks before the National Defence Committee, as a representative of the government, I said that the government naturally agrees to discuss the National Defence Development Plan in the way the Riigikogu plenary wants it. However, it is known that if this development plan were to come to this House, it could not be fully discussed for security policy reasons. You asked about the various development plans how they were linked to the foundations of security policy. I think that if the Riigikogu gives its approval to the document on the basis of security policy, then development plans must also be adjusted. One of the best forms of cooperation at government level is the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic, from which all the so-called development documents in this area should definitely be negotiated. Cooperation with the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also very important. You also mentioned maintaining world order, I didn't understand whether it was ironic or not. But in any case, ever since Estonia regained independence, and even before, it has been certain that we want a world order that is democratic, we want a world order where there is peace, where there is no place in wars. I think we've been holding this direction very strongly. Every time I deal with national defence or foreign policy issues, I sincerely think that in front of the men and women who once decided that Estonia's strong commitment to the European Union, NATO and other international organisations is the right way to go, the hat must be removed. I think that this thinking has continued in all governments, in all Riigikogu configurations, up to the current XIII composition. In my opinion, you personally have also made a very important contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U37	Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U38	Good Prime Minister! I was very impressed by the comparison that we are conducting our defence policy in the 'Ukuaru waltz' style. It was very beautiful. I'm asking the Vorošilovans for marching style. As far as I was in the army, we had the order that we were commanded: "Better is better! Battles on! Step forward to the dining hall! 'That's why I'm asking you very simply. There is an agreement with the United Russia. The deal doesn't work that way either, you've said 560 times. It doesn't work! In the interests of legal regularity and, by the way, in the interests of honesty to the Russians, too, the agreement should then be terminated. You should be honest with your partner. Is that it? If so, why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U39	Honorable member of the Riigikogu! You have the right, of course, to tell a member of the government how a party should behave. Thank you for that! Let's say everything's fine in your house, and then you're going to help the neighbor. It's not bad. It's really not bad! In Estonia, it is the principle that a neighbour must be helped for centuries. Andres and Pearu sometimes helped each other. That's very sympathetic, of course. In view of our ALDE united family in foreign policy too, it is perfectly understandable that with your experience in life you can grasp everything with a much broader perspective. But funny. If you're serious, I don't know if you listened to me or didn't listen. Just in case, I repeat our attitude towards relations between Estonia and Russia, not between the two parties. Here's what we think. We believe that attention must also be paid to relations with Russia and the prospects for their development. As a neighbouring country, we are undoubtedly interested in the development of democracy and the rule of law in Russia and we will retain the opportunity for dialogue. However, the aggressive behaviour that has intensified in the last decade of our eastern neighbour makes it necessary to be united in the European Union and NATO, inter alia, as regards sanctions, until the root causes of their introduction have disappeared. Now this example of 'Ukuru waltz'. I don't think that's a bad comparison at all. You have certainly read the document on the basis of the security policy very thoroughly. It's about 21 pages and an explanatory note 5 pages thick. After all, the general principle is that our security is the most secure when polarization is as low as possible within society, when the cohesion of society is as large as possible in society, it is felt that the Estonian state is present, present and always available, offering the best sense of elbow in all 15 of our counties. This is indeed the basic principles of the Security Policy Paper. If you want to read how many tanks, guns, and ammunition we have, as far as I know, all members of the National Defence Commission have that opportunity. It is linked to the National Defence Development Plan in the framework of the project until 2026.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U40	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U41	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! Indeed, the Prime Minister is expected to be very active in resolving issues of both state reform and population protection. A few weeks ago, the Free Party Group discussed these issues with the population protection task force for an hour and a half. I understand that in the government, the debate on this issue lasted only 15 minutes. Two problems came out of this debate for me. Within the framework of the administrative reform, the debate on the tasks of local government has still not started. We do not know who the payer is in the area of public protection. Where does the money come from, how the information moves? These things are undisputed. When will the Prime Minister open this chapter? The second issue is the teaching of national defence. Young people certainly need a more comprehensive education in national defence than we currently have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U42	Thank you for this question. First of all, you spoke of a meeting of the Government of the Republic where there were few minutes to discuss this issue. On the part of the government's organisation of work, the importance of paying attention to one point or another at a government session for the number of seconds x or the number of minutes x does not indicate at any end how important the subject to be discussed is. There is a need for a very broad consensus and involvement in order for some issues to even reach the meeting of the Government of the Republic. As I said, the document we are discussing today was not just a matter of ministries; all Estonian people had the opportunity to say their opinion through a participatory website. Before the meeting of the Government of the Republic, the subject has also been discussed at the Cabinet meetings, etc. As far as the protection of the population is concerned, I can say so much that a task force has been put to work, which will have to put forward its proposals in November this year and will certainly do so. The protection of the population is certainly a broad-based undertaking; it is not a matter of one institution or another or of a third institution. This is a cross-cutting task. On the reform of the state, I thought I answered your groupmate, Mr Herkel. What does the reform of the state still provide? It will certainly provide much, much greater capacity to act much more quickly, much more confidently, in any crisis situation. This will provide an opportunity for comprehensive preparedness. It is no secret that there are currently very many small municipalities that are not prepared, not even proper threat assessments. In large municipalities, however, this issue has been dealt with very well. So, in any case, when implementing state reform or administrative reform, the issues of population protection and security policy are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U43	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U44	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good Prime Minister! You mentioned earlier that you were fighting for peace and there would be no war. Well, I don't know any country or politician who'd fight for war. Even North Korea fights for peace, so the stone won't stay on the stone until there's only a mushroom-shaped cloud left of America. But all right, rhetorical rhetoric. You also mentioned in your introductory speech that the idea of this document is tolerance, openness and value for diversity. Well, I don't know, I used to think there was strength in unity. Diversity, I think, undermines it. When we talk about the strength of society, society should be as united as possible, not as fragmented as possible. Do you not think that overemphasising such modern, perverse and politically correct priorities in our security policy is dangerous?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U45	Thank you. I certainly cannot agree with all these comments. I'll start with North Korea. I am not sure that their main objective is to stand up for peace, as you said. Honestly, I'm not sure about that. As a member of the Riigikogu, you may have the opportunity to obtain more detailed information about what is going on in this country, and you know it, but from the data I have, I do not dare to confirm it. Now, from the slogan that unity is power. You said that society should be as coherent as possible and as united as possible. I will, however, return to the question of a member of the Riigikogu, in which I named Arvo Pärt. Much has been said about our world-famous composer in Estonian journalism. He is a citizen of the world who has been able to combine generations and at the same time take Estonia to the map of the world. Yes, I think it has made Estonia stronger. I think it has made Estonia better protected. When I introduced the foundations of our security policy, I noted that our defence shield is our constitution. The Constitution says that political and other views of different people must not be attacked. You can't ignore anyone. I think that the founders of the Estonian Constitution have been able to look at these things in the long term, as we have so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U46	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Your tolerance margin is enviable. It seems, among other things, how tolerant you are of your party partner Yana Toomi's solos, statements also at the address of the Estonian people, his visits to Syria, etc. It is an enviable tolerance. I'm afraid I don't have that much tolerance. But now my question. In 1992, a doctrine came up in Russia that we know as a near foreign doctrine, or Karaganov. This stated that one of Russia's main objectives was to preserve the Russian diaspora in the former republics of the Union. Do you not think that our debate on this document is in many ways pointless, because the government you manage will do everything in its power to ensure that segregation in Estonia is preserved on a linguistic basis and that the Russian Diaspora is not lost as an instrument of Russian imperialism in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U48	Thank you for this question. First of all, I must point out that the politician you mentioned is not mentioned in the document on the basis of the security policy. You're talking about the Russian information field. In my opinion, it is really important that we do not establish our own security policy just because the 70-75% of the Estonian population whose home language and native language are the most beautiful language in the world must be able to read in that language. The general principle underlying the security policy is that society is a whole that is interlinked. There are quite a few people in Estonia who speak Russian at home. I think it is the duty of the Estonian Government to do everything possible to ensure that this language space, the information field where they read and hear something, reflects as identical as possible what the honourable Riigikogu decides or what the Government of the Republic decides. There shouldn't be any arbitrary interpretation of a media publication, your vision. I think that the same document on the basis of security policy, if it is approved by your will, should in any case be available to all Estonian residents, including Russian-speaking residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U49	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You often use the word pair 'old Estonia' in your performances. As a representative of the 60+ age group, I can sense a slightly negative attitude towards mature. At the same time, progressive countries, which are in a similar situation, have for some time seen the increase in life expectancy as a great potential in society. It was a lyrical introduction. But here's the question. The foundations of security policy also see the ageing of the Estonian population as one of the possible growing security risks, especially in the context of demographic developments in the rest of the world. How will our country cope if Estonia becomes a destination for immigrants from populous countries? It should also be borne in mind that one of the United Nations forecasts says that the world's population is growing intensively until the middle of the century.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U51	Thank you. Now you have put a very philosophical and very serious question on the table. But it is very good that this aspect also comes into play in today's discussion. I was very frightened for a moment when you indicated that I often use the word pair 'old Estonia'. But if I've used it, there's no way I've used it with a negative tinge. On the contrary, I have always stressed in private conversations as well as in public performances that life experience is a very valuable thing, and it will come over the years. There is no negativity in the fact that the number of years of our healthy lives is increasing, that the life expectancy of Estonian people is increasing. It's positive, it's actually something we all really want in our souls. We hope that Estonia's population will not decrease, that our positive lives are an annual reality, not that we are talking about this happening 20 years ago. In any case, this is the direction to take. You also referred to the issue of immigration in your question. I thought you were trying to stress that. It is no secret that the various groups in this Chamber see this problem completely differently. This topic has become the subject of the same political dispute as the problems of Estonians and Russian-speaking people. It seems to me that this subject has been dogma for years, it is not something to talk about at all. It is roughly the same as the saying that tax policy must not be changed. Luckily, this dogma is broken now. After all, the whole immigration issue is very strongly linked to the overall refugee policy, which is often discussed by the European Union Council. And that's what really needs to be discussed. I think that our parties could make their views clear. There is plenty of time for Riigikogu elections. After all, this is not just about the question of whether we are letting people from elsewhere into Estonia or not. The business sector is looking forward to working from third countries. So this topic is very broad. Does this also relate to the foundations of security policy? I think there's something to do with it. So the discussions on these issues could be on our table, they are very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You drew special attention to the ugly new word 'beg' used in the document, which should mean the ability of society to resist negative phenomena and threats. This is a new word that was invented during the 2014 word contest between the Ministry of Defence and the Estonian Language Institute, which should be equivalent to the English-language resilience, which means elasticity. I think that word is also in the dictionary of the correct language in terms of elasticity. Do you consider it appropriate, in the documents setting out national policies, to have word-only cocktails that, in the end, only blur the substance of the matter? When we talk about elasticity and society's resilience, we could say that. This word also gave a negative response to the committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U53	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U54	I hope that, when it comes to this document, the word has not been debated the most. But it is true that this has not been asked in the debates why such a word is in it. Forgive me, but I think this document is very well-edited linguistically. There is no raw document in this hall. The concept of Kerksus has been clarified, and so did I in my report, and you yourself explained it. I guess it has been found that the best match in Estonian is the word 'beaker'. It certainly doesn't make this document go upside down, as you say. I'm sure the word is understood, that's what work has been done to find such a short match. I think this could go on, I support it in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U55	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject of protecting the population. The aim of protecting the population is to protect people in any crisis. It has so far been designed through crisis regulation. It does not matter whether it is a military or a civilian crisis, in any case the system must work. Looking at this document that we have before us, it seems to me that the protection of the population has been relatively easily overslipped, as if it is not very much wanted to talk about it. And it has not been clearly stated either here or in any other place, who is the management institution. Is the protection of the population essentially the responsibility of the municipality or the responsibility of the state? My question is: do you think that defending the population is a national defence task and who is still responsible for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U57	I think both are responsible for both the state and the local government. I told you when I answered your benchmate that it was definitely not slipped over. On the contrary, a task force has been set up to report on its work this autumn. I said that the protection of the population is very strongly linked to local authorities. I also brought voluntary contributions, for example. But the country certainly has a role to play. We should be thinking more broadly. Perhaps too often we only want to place one instance behind a few functions. As I said, the document on the basis of the security policy is not structured in this way. On the contrary, this is a comprehensive government approach, with different parties in mind. Unfortunately, the last questioner has left the hall. I wanted to tell him that, as far as I know, the word 'begin' has not come from the Ministry of Defence or the State Chancellery. As far as I know, this has been proposed some time ago in cooperation between the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Ministry of Defence. I do not question the Institute of the Estonian Language in any way and do not say that a bad match has been found.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U58	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U59	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! This document does not really deal with Yana Toom, but indirectly it is quite clear. But this document has nothing to do with Arvo Pärt, to whom you devoted your time. However, this document is linked to this agreement, which you say does not work. From a security point of view, such a contract means a sleeper. You didn't answer the question, why don't you stop it? At the moment, all your ambiguous steps fit in with the context that this agreement is still working. You started by calling not to talk about Russia, and speaking of European positions, you wrote Russia out, at least in the context of Syria. And our country's anniversary events began in Russia. Why, however, do you not want to dispel these doubts and say that it is not about working or not working? The question is whether or not to terminate the agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U60	Reverend Jürgen Ligi! I thank you very much for this question, which you asked in exactly 1 minute and 16 seconds, as I think the Riigikogu does. What is this document sure to contain? I think this document contains the principle that there should be less hatred and more awareness in society. We should try to reduce hatred and more to aim for cooperation, community coherence and integrity, which has also been the fundamental foundation of your very honourable political career. As far as the persons I call are concerned, it is the right of the speaker to refer to them if there is coherence. And if one cooperation protocol doesn't work, it doesn't work. It doesn't exist. I have nothing more to add on this subject. You asked why Estonia's 100th anniversary anniversary events began in St Petersburg, Russia. But because history has shaped our destiny. 100 years ago, 40,000 Estonians marched in Petrograd, all of whom wanted only one thing: that Estonia would soon become an independent Estonian state. It was one of the foundations of independence. I went to that St. John's church, Mr. Ligi, a very warm feeling in my heart. And the days of the week later I took a trip to Estonia to figuratively erase the border of the two provinces. I believe you did it, too, and you were with your people. I'm sure you know better than I do all the 100th anniversary events in Estonia, the whole program. It was launched at least five years ago and has been dealt with by several governments. It is true that the events organised under this programme will take us to St Petersburg, Riga, Finland, the United States and Brussels. We must be proud of our people and support them in different countries. You mentioned Russia on a number of occasions in your question. In my opinion, I gave quite specific and exhaustive explanations of how Estonia's defence is viewed as the basis of security policy, also with regard to Russia. I also made a very clear assessment in my speech of what Russia has done over the last ten years, whether in Crimea, Eastern Ukraine or Georgia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U61	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have already touched a long time before World War II, when the real independence of the Republic of Estonia began. During that period, during Estonia's first period of independence, there were also documents highlighting security guarantees. The main idea was that the most secure guarantee of Estonian independence is a person who loves and respects his country, who acts as a citizen, apart from the main job in associations, for example. Is there a place in these renewed security policies for a person who is full of responsibility and loves his country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U63	I see her in a very important place. After all, I said in my speech that the Estonian family is the foundation of everything. Estonia's security policy cannot start at Lossi plats 1a. It does not start with the honourable Riigikogu, nor does it start with the House of Stenbock or local governments. It starts with family. I'll sign your serious words anyway. This is our best guarantee that the Estonian person is feeling well here because society is little polarised, society sees itself as a whole, the government and the public sector also see themselves as part of the whole. Yes, your reasoning is very correct, I support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U64	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I will take this opportunity to expand a little bit on the previous issue. The country is strong when strong people live here, but perhaps strong citizens. In your presentation, you mentioned that if a part of the state of Estonia should be occupied, citizens will fight resistance. But we also have a whole bunch of non-citizens. Perhaps you will enlighten us on how work on them will be developed according to the new document? After all, we want more faithful citizens. And one side question too. We have non-citizen NATO fighters. Are they just here on the ground, or do they really intervene when they need to? If they do, how?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U66	I'll start with the first part of the question. I think that the people living in Estonia, the citizens of Estonia of the various nationalities that make up the Estonian people, are ready to stand up for the independence of our country, are ready to protect our country. I really think these people are all our people. The undertone of your question was that you probably meant non-citizens living in Estonia, people with a grey passport. After all, you remember this discussion held four months ago in Estonian society. I expressed the opinion that there is more than two years before the Riigikogu elections, and there is a very serious debate on this subject, so that no one can say that we are doing this one and a half, two or three months before the Riigikogu elections. This is a matter of decision-making for the Riigikogu, the legislative assembly. The problem is still in the air. As far as I can remember, all the political groups, with the exception of one group, who was divisive as to whether it was a problem or not. I think the people who work here, who have created a home here, who pay taxes, whose children go to school or kindergarten here, are all our people. In any case, I believe that they will protect the Estonian state. We can see that in the service. There are quite a few young men whose native language is Russian, but they go to military service. So I certainly do not classify people living in Estonia as our people and as someone else's people. It is the task of the state to ensure that society is as coherent as possible. Steps such as the establishment of ETV+ have been the right ones. Have we achieved our goal? In any case, we are on our way to our goal, and so we have certainly experienced more positive than negative. Radio 4 of national broadcasting is also a very good example of how the Russian-language programme adequately reflects what the Riigikogu or government or anyone decides. You asked why NATO soldiers are here and there in NATO Member States. NATO's main objective is to ensure peace, so that military action does not take place in any of its Member States. However, if deterrence does not work, NATO will of course stand by the fact that no square centimeters of land will be taken away from any NATO state. This is a fundamental principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U67	Thank you. I do not quite agree with the assessment that the threat from Russia is low. Yeah, maybe a direct conventional military threat. This is also logical, because Estonia is a member of NATO. But not only in Estonia, but actually throughout Europe, there is a direct knowledge of the hybrid methods used by Russia. There's no way the Prime Minister can forget that. Secondly, I do not agree that the source of Estonia's independence is in Russia. No, it's not! The source of Estonia's independence is in Estonia; we are not independent from the mercy of Russia. But I still see a certain double standard. On one side it is a well - written speech, on the other side the statements of Toom, Reps, Karilaiu, and others, and the agreement still in force. In this hall, you said in Estonian that this agreement was trivial. Then why don't you just cancel it? What's stopping you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U68	Javier in clothing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U69	Thank you. Well, I don't know what we're gonna do. In Estonia, there are institutions such as the Information Board, the Defence Police Department and the Police and Border Guard Board. These specialists often and diligently evaluate the members of the government. The question is whether we think these assessments are correct or whether they are not correct. Do we trust these specialists or don't we trust them? I do. The fact that there are cyber threats, of course, is true. Of course it is! However, I said before I replied that the Prime Minister must not sow hysteria in society unless there are grounds for it. There is no basis for this right now, and that is certainly not what I am doing. I think that most people in Estonia want to get information about the truth, and that must be given by the Prime Minister. But it is not right to sow the hysteria of war threats if there is no basis for this hysteria. This is also not right from the point of view of our economic environment, our business. This is not good for investments in this country, neither for our own companies that want to invest here, nor for foreign investors. But to the writers of the speech, I will pass on the words of recognition. Yeah, it's a good speech! I'm one of its writers, by the way. But there are so many others besides me. I don't know what we're gonna do with this St. Petersburg. Are you saying that the 40,000 people there weren't Estonians? And what kind of Russian grace are you talking about? No Russian scar has anything to do with it. It was a peace march where 40,000 Estonians announced that we wanted to become independent. That's how I interpret it. If you think that these tens of thousands of Estonians were walking on the street back then in Petrograd, I think you're wrong. I do not understand why we should raise such pseudo-problems if we could be proud of what happened there in 1917. I think something happened that our generation, the good Taavi Clothes, is very happy about. We live in an independent Republic of Estonia now, and neither you nor I have seen real warfare.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U70	Honourable Riigikogu! I declare a five-minute adjournment period for the President of the sitting in order to allow the governing board of the Riigikogu to finally agree and establish the order of questions for Question Time. If you remember what you said at the beginning of today's working day, Question Time will begin at 13:00. This requires final decisions. We'll continue work at 11:36.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U71	Let's get back to the hearing. We were in the middle of asking Jürgen Ligi a second question. Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk! Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U72	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister, in your reply of about four minutes, you have come to blame for the length of my question, which went a little over a minute, to characterize me, to praise the clarity of your answers and to talk about St Petersburg. But the question remained unanswered. In connection with St Petersburg's story, I note that please forget that the cradle of Estonia is in Russia and that Estonia's independence was demanded during this procession. No, it only required autonomy. Remember that! And try very clearly, as you like to say, to answer the question, why do you allow these ambiguous situations to be interpreted in this way? The agreement with the United Russia is in force, why don't you finish it? This may have been asked three times, but you will not answer the questions or questions that have affected relations between Syria and Russia and your earlier statements. This is not how you disprove these doubts. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U73	Thank you for your question. First of all, of course, autonomy was demanded there, but I think that was the first source of independence. There are no ambiguous interpretations here; interpretations are all unambiguous. If you refer to the Centre Party, the interpretations here are only the same: it is a party that has grown out of the Popular Front, a party that has been active in the Estonian landscape for all the years of independence, a party that stands for Estonia's security, for Estonia's independence. It's as simple as that. No ambiguity!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U74	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U75	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! Schools, including national defence teaching, have undoubtedly a significant role to play in increasing society's beggars. There is no mention of this in this document, at least I did not find anything about it. But please tell me about your government's plans for this. How do you see the role of the National Defence Teaching - this is a preparation for military service - this is a preparation for well-being in the case of wide-spread national defence, in the case of all kinds of crises, or something else? And should national defence education be mandatory for all students or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U76	Thank you. You asked if there was anything else. I think that something else is actually the basic principle of national defence teaching: it is the love of the fatherland. This is Estonia's love. But in general, it's preparation for military service. This, in my opinion, provides a good basis for young people in Estonia to go to military service. If we come for a moment to another document in this area, which is a national defence development plan, one of the goals is that the number of young people entering military service will increase from 320 to 4000 in the near future. So national defence education in schools is very important. "The foundations of Estonian security policy" do not concern the various areas, including education. This does not mean, however, that we oppose national defence teaching in schools. The teaching of national defence must also be further developed even more widely. Anyway, I see a very positive direction here. In my opinion, we do not just have to pay attention to powerful machines and ammunition, so-called metals. What is also important is what you asked about, the preparation for the growth of a good citizen, based on patriotism, the love of the homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U77	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The foundations and trends of security policy are a well-drafted document which provides a good basis for the implementation of security development plans. There are two areas in which there should be more cross-party cooperation. These, in my opinion, would be education and security policy. What are the positions of the government here? And what are your views on civil service, which was only recently raised?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U79	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your praise! You can either turn over your left shoulder or your right shoulder and say thank you also to the gentleman sitting behind you, the Taavi Clothes, who has also put a lot of money into it. Yes, there is a good document and it is nice to hear that the honourable members of the Riigikogu feel that way. In general, I do not dare to claim that education has been such a cross-political or cross-party area. It seems to me that political parties have argued very strongly about education policy. However, it is right, as you said, that there have been no such disputes in security policy. And I think it's welcome. I would actually add a foreign policy that we've been walking into in 25 years. I gave an example of a personal life in the National Defence Committee that I have carried in my soul. I believe it is appropriate to mention this here too. I had the opportunity to enter this honorable assembly in 2007. As at the beginning of each composition, the presidents of the permanent committees were elected. At the time, people who were members of the Riigikogu for the first time became both chairman and vice-chair of the National Defence Committee. Before these elections, Trivimi Vellise, then member of the National Defence Committee, told them that you must take into account that we are not voting here in the Commission, here in the Commission we are making cross-political decisions. I think this principle is very correct. That was something that really touched me back then, because the deputy chairman of the National Defence Commission became my penguin, who spoke very emotionally about it. I do not think we have much debate about security policy and foreign policy. Some may want to find a great contrast as they approach from one angle or another, but what doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. What are we doing here tossing such pieces of thought? They really don't make any sense from the point of view of the same document. Our aim is for Estonian society to be united, so that there is less hatred and more common ground. However, there is no such common approach in education policy, for example. You also asked about the civilian side. Once again, when I read this bill for the first time, I also had a huge number of detailed questions. The details, however, have never been the purpose of this document. The aim has been to lay down general principles in the best sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U80	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U81	Thank you. This year was ten years of bronze night, and on 9 May the Russians here will celebrate the victory of the Soviet Union over Germany. For Estonians, this bronze soldier means a rapist, a rapist, a looter, and a deportationr. Other Europe actually marks the end of the war the day before. Among those celebrating 9 May are the same people who, ten years ago, looted and burned down the city centre of Tallinn, shouting 'Rossija! Rossija! "to be accompanied. They're still wearing Georgi tapes. Will the Prime Minister of Estonia or some other ministers go to the bronze cabinet on 9 May to deliver a wreath?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U82	No, I'm not. I am going to the Kadriorg Art Museum to celebrate Europe Day, after which I will be in the family circle celebrating my father's birthday, as I have always celebrated it on 9 May. But as for the events that took place ten years ago and which were certainly very negative events, Estonia's various institutions, different authorities, then showed very decisive behaviour. As a society, we came out of it. The same document on the basis of the security policy confirms that Estonian society must be more coherent, it is not worth trying to do polarisation tests. This is what we have actually learned from events that were ten years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U83	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U84	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! In order not to cause confusion, I will simply ask a question without an introduction. Why does your party, the Estonian current Prime Minister's Party Centre Party, not abolish the protocol of cooperation with the Putin Party Single Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U85	Because there is simply no protocol of cooperation in this regard. What are we canceling here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U86	Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U87	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! I am really glad that you have firmly defended our country's history and prioritised the step that has helped us to reach our country. I am not ashamed of the history of Estonia, even if it relates to the activities of my fellow countrymen in the capital of the Russian Empire. This hall has begun to question the importance of this step and, unfortunately, it is happening in front of our students. They're not on this balcony right now, but they've often been there. Doesn't it seem to you that such a shame in history will damage the reputation of the Estonian state in the eyes of other countries rather than your visit to St Petersburg?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U88	In general, we have managed to keep one line in the Estonian country, and this has been that we have not settled our country's internal problems and pseudo-themes through foreign policy channels, foreign media. I don't know if these estimates are true or not, but it has been assumed that, on the last ten days of November last year, such an avalanche did gain strength. I really hope that's not true. There are no political parties in this Chamber who want to undermine our credibility outside Estonia and harm our good name in the eyes of our allies in the European Union and NATO. I really believe that's the case. But unfortunately, that kind of thorn is still in the soul. One minute at the end of November last year, this avalanche got loose. But rather, it's very extraordinary, no one thought such a thing could happen. However, I do not think that any party or politician in the Riigikogu wants to damage our reputation. I really hope so. I don't think we need to be ashamed of our history. On the contrary, as I replied to a member of the Riigikogu of my generation, we must be happy. I don't know what it's like to have to hide between the junipers in Saaremaa, for example, so you don't get hit by an airplane bomb. But my parents have told me all about it. It hasn't been that long.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U89	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You spoke very nicely in your speech about the esteemed Arvo Pärt and 'Ukuaru waltz', but when I read this document, I do not see the words 'culture' or 'holding culture' or 'cultural awareness' either in the list of the main lines of action or in the broader sense of society. Do you not think that maintaining and raising Estonia's general cultural level should be one of the very strong security guarantees for the entire society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U91	Thank you, Mrs. Krista Aru! Oh, yeah, yeah! But look at the point following the introduction. The first paragraph concludes very clearly that the aim of Estonia's security policy is to ensure the independence and independence of the Estonian state, the survival of the people and state, territorial integrity, constitutional order and the security of the population. It's all our culture, it's all part of culture. The constitutional order provides that we must all do our utmost to protect our people, protect our language, protect our culture. So it's definitely in here. There hasn't been any past culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U92	Please, Keit Pentus Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U93	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Over the last few months, we have all witnessed a rather unprecedented development in which some of the political leaders of the Prime Minister's party and the official foreign and security policy of the country are not simply overlapping, but at times completely different. Unfortunately, this is also in direct contradiction to the foundations of the security policy you are presenting to us here today. We have before us a document that we are about to endorse. It has certainly been prepared by very professional diplomats and security experts, and this is a very good document. But no such document can really solve a situation where the party of the Prime Minister and the leading politicians undermine Estonia's credibility with their statements and trips to dictators. How do you resolve this situation, where some of your party's leading politicians' foreign policy and security policy are at odds with the country's official foreign and security policy, so that it can become a threat in its own right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U94	There is certainly no place in the Centre Party for any person who opposes the independence of Estonia, who opposes the continued existence of our country, who opposes the flag of blue black and white flying in the tower of Pikk Hermann. They really have no place in this party. This is a concrete and very simple answer for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U95	Thank you. Prime Minister! I was prompted to ask Keit Pentus-Rosimine's previous question, on which you explicitly said that the protocol, which does not work, does not really exist, so there is nothing to cancel. On the other hand, Mailis Reps, a member of your government office, said only recently in Estonian National Broadcasting that you would not dare to withdraw the cooperation agreement with United Russia. I am asking you: are you ready to say what you said about ten minutes ago in this speech chair of the Riigikogu, and I would stress that this is still a very important place to say to the members of the Central Party Group and your government office? And would you confirm that in the Russian media room? We have experienced that in the media space in Estonian and Russian, the messages of the politicians of the Central Party are unfortunately different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U96	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U97	Thank you, good questioner, for this important question. I find it quite impressive how you draw a parallel between the foundations of security policy and Mailis Reps. Yes, in some ways there is a security policy link here: a good Estonian woman has created a large family and is certainly a good example. But I understand what you asked for. I believe, Mr. Palling, that you are a very active follower of the Russian media. You will certainly read the various newspapers that appear here in Estonia, such as the MK-Estonian, and listen to Radio 4 and actively monitor the activities of ETV+. Give an example that I have answered this question differently in the Russian media! I have responded everywhere in the same way as in the Estonian media. I agree that this is the most honorable speech chair. That's it! But yes, I'm sure you have a good overview of the Russian media. If there's no answer to that question anywhere, let me know, and I'm sure this can be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U98	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At the beginning of your presentation, you seriously acknowledged the previous government and Prime Minister. I don't think it was mere commendation. If you ever know exactly when the next prime minister is on this remote control, what could be the two things he'll accept you and your government for talking about the foundations of security policy? What's your bet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U100	Thank you. No, it wasn't a mouthful, it was heartfelt. Point two, like you asked me to evaluate myself and my government. I won't do it. That's not allowed in my nursery. But I hope that if the new composition of the Riigikogu, the XIV, discusses the foundations of security policy at the beginning of its work, I think it would make sense I, too, will certainly take along from here the knowledge that we can protect Estonian society if we maintain and develop it further, building on the broadest possible consensus, the greatest possible coherence. I'll take this one from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U101	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U102	Dear Prime Minister, good George! Don't get me wrong! This previous question was not a personal complaint to you that you have said something wrong somewhere. It was a question of saying Mailis Reps and your reply as chairman of the Centre Party, which you said 15 minutes ago from this remote. You are saying that security and foreign policy are united and cross-political, and your penguin was also very happy about this ten years ago. That's all right. However, we are hearing different views from the ranks of the Prime Minister's party, the government's leading party, from here on, whether the statements made by Yana Toomi on security and foreign policy or other statements that have been made in line. Don't take it personally! But if the Prime Minister were you and the chairman of the Centre Party was Yana Toom, we certainly wouldn't ask you these questions. It's just that you, as the chairman of the Centre Party, have a somewhat broader responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U103	If the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu allows us to respond to this, I will certainly comment on this line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U104	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U105	Thank you. I'll come back to that answer. The Centre Party and its predecessor, the Popular Front, have, in my opinion, played a very important role in Estonia being independent again. The Estonian Congress, the Estonian Committee, the Society for Heritage Protection and the Green Movement have just as much of a role to play. But the biggest contribution has been made by the people of Estonia. Mr. Palling, I think that this contrast in Estonian society does not give you anything, it does not bring you any additional percentage points of recognition and it does not take away any from anyone else. I'm sure you don't think so. I cannot speak for you, of course, but I very much hope that we are both convinced that there are no groups in this Chamber who would like anything other than a strong independent Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U106	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U107	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! I listened to this mid-term debate in history, and I remembered some quotes that I wanted to ask you about. A little over ten years ago, just before the events escalated around the bronze soldier in the centre of Tallinn, Mayor Jüri Ratas was the mayor. Jüri Ratas said to 'Actual camera': 'I would say that personally I am not disturbed by a bronze soldier in Tallinn. ' Has your position changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U108	Good questioner, I think you've been superficially searching history. When events ten years ago escalated in our capital, the person you asked about, namely Jüri Ratas, was a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U109	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U110	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for your speech. My question is as follows. There's been a lot of talk here today about this sleeping contract. But one thing is a sleepy contract, the other thing is active people. Last year a large delegation visited St Petersburg, Russia, with actors, writers, politicians, business leaders, etc. The aim was to search for contacts and try to create a good relationship with Russia. We haven't slept in Setumaa either. We have the Setomaa Municipality Association, we have our Setu House in Petseri City, where seminars, study days for Russians etc. are held. There is close cooperation with the Petseri administration, and Pihkva has been a very successful cooperation in ethnogastronomy and so on. My question: what is more important in this world, a sleepy protocol, some kind of paper, or busy people? And what suggestions would you give to us and to all the other people who want to have a better relationship with the people of the near state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U111	The most important thing is active people. As Prime Minister, of course, I have no right to make recommendations to my boss. The Riigikogu is the giver of powers to the Prime Minister and the entire government. I think you referred to a thousand Estonians in St. Petersburg. In my opinion, it was particularly positive about this undertaking that it did not grow out of any ministry, it did not grow out of any municipality, it was actually a private initiative. As you said, a large number of cultural figures and entrepreneurs went there. Did they all do the wrong thing? After all, today's discussion has given the impression that going to St. Petersburg is always a negative decision. But these people also knew the historical links with St. Petersburg in Estonia, they knew this cultural connection. Certainly symbolizes this connection with the recently renovated St. Petersburg Church. I think this was the right thing to do. As Prime Minister, I am certainly not saying that these people went there to sell Estonia. I think that the sincere aim of these entrepreneurs, their active citizens of Estonia, is to support our country, to support our culture, to support our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U112	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U113	Thank you, good Chairman. Prime Minister! On my question, I referred to time ten and a little more years ago. This news is, in fact, from the time the events began to escalate, but the waving of the red flags in the centre of Tallinn was already discussed. The quote at the time belongs to the mayor of Tallinn, Jüri Ratas, who said that he was not personally disturbed by a bronze soldier in Tallinn. My question is whether your position has changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U114	The Bronze Soldier is still in Tallinn, only in another place. Waving red flags is really bothering me. These flags are definitely not to be waved in this town or in this country. More than ten years ago, when I met the leaders of the Northern Prefecture of the Police Office at the time, this matter was very much in focus. This was the focus since the end of 2006, when preparations began for May 2007. The Tallinn City Government, including myself, was quite eager to find a peaceful solution to the situation. As I have already said, I certainly commend the Estonian police and all the other institutions involved for their determination at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U115	No further questions for the Prime Minister. Thank you. The rapporteur for the National Defence Committee is Hannes Hanso, the chairman of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Now two hours have discussed the foundations of security policy. I am talking to you about what has happened in the Commission during the debate on this subject. The document 'Basics of Estonian Security Policy', in addition to the draft under discussion, determines the objectives, principles and policies of the security policy, taking into account the interests of Estonia and the risks of the international and national security environment. It is probably quite worth stressing that this is a framework document, which is a guideline for drawing up sectoral development and action plans. Perhaps it should also be stressed that this is not just a national defence development plan, which is often treated as documents on security issues. It is settled practice that before approving the foundations of security policy or amendments thereto in the Government of the Republic, the work project on the foundations of security policy will be discussed with both the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Therefore, I will briefly mention the period preceding the submission of this document to the Riigikogu proceedings. At their joint meetings, the National Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed work options on the basis of security policy on 22 February last year, which was well over a year ago, and later on 19 September. Kristjan Prikk, Head of the Security and Defence Coordination Office of the State Chancellery, and Margus Kolga, Head of the Working Group on the Preparation of the Security Policy Foundation Document, participated in these meetings. On 27 September last year, the National Defence Commission sent its written proposals to Margus Kolga on the working version of the foundations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs sent its written proposals on 4 October last year. Most of the proposals made by the National Defence Commission have also been reflected in the foundations of security policy. After submitting the document on the basis of the security policy to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, a joint meeting of the National Defence Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place on 18 April. The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Director of the Security and National Defence Coordination Office of the State Chancellery, Kristjan Prik, and by Margus Kolga, the head of the working group that drew up the draft document. At the meeting of 18 April, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 2 May for the first reading. Hannes Hanso was appointed rapporteur on behalf of the National Defence Committee. At the same time, the Commission decided again, I stress, by consensus, to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days according to Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, i.e. 16 May at 5.15 p.m. in this case. And another nuance. According to § 99 of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act and the practice of its implementation, amendments can only be submitted to the text of the Riigikogu's draft decision, not to the full text of the 'Estonian Foundations of Security Policy' approved by the Government of the Republic. In particular, this is why the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs were involved in the development of the text of the foundations already at the stage of their creation, i.e. far before the text was approved by the government. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U117	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U118	Thank you, good Chairman. Good representative of the National Defence Commission! I hope that you also discussed substantive issues in the Commission. I am particularly interested in what the Commission felt about the role of the Prime Minister and also the Riigikogu in the implementation of population protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U119	All the members of both committees were able to ask as many questions as they wished. As I said, this document received the unanimous approval of both committees. As far as the protection of the population is concerned, it was rather a question of how to interpret this broad-based document when planning activities in different areas. The replies given to the members of the Commission satisfied these documents, after all, were submitted by consensus. It is clear that the document deals not only with military defence issues but also more broadly with the population than such. All public authorities and, of course, municipalities must be involved. We must use our state's resources as coherently as possible, so that no silos are created. No one raised the issue of the protection of the population as such, as I recall, but of course everyone had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U120	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U121	Thank you. I am asking a question concerning the Commission's debate. In this document, the government sets the objective of Estonian national defence as a guarantee of Estonia's independence, independence, territorial integrity and the security of the population and says that in order to achieve this goal, a world order based on international law must be maintained and the global impact of a value area based on democracy ensured. Was it discussed in the Commission that perhaps this is a somewhat too ambitious sub-target?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U122	Thank you. In my opinion, the good questioner himself raised the question whether the document should not state that Estonia also wants Russia to be a democratic state. As the Prime Minister replied, indeed, Russia is very clearly the source of the greatest security threat and democratic developments in Russia are very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U123	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Maybe we could explain a few things for the sake of clarity. A broad national defence approach will be introduced. It is no longer a broad-based concept of national defence. And the second question is about the word 'beaked'. Perhaps you can explain these two things once more for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U125	The subject of broad-based national defence has been under discussion for at least four or five years. How we deal with national defence as such: whether it is how many cannons or guns or shells we have, or whether it is a matter of society's resilience, in which we do not deal separately with the army and police forces, our medical system and governments and all that. Our country is small. Resources are currently scarce and are still scarce, especially in relation to large countries. But we can also invest something in our military defence. It is self-evident that we must look at our country and its functioning, both during the crisis, during the peace and during the war, as a single strong whole, where every resource available can be used as reasonably as possible to protect the country. That's the term. To be honest, it is very reasonable that we have chosen such an approach. However, I am absolutely certain that this document is a living document. It must be reviewed over time, and we have an agreement with the Prime Minister that it will be discussed again sometime. It's a living document that has to keep up with the times. If I remember correctly, it's the fourth document on this subject, I might be wrong about the number, but it is something like that. In a few years, we will come back to this document, because the security environment may change. Of course, the vocabulary we use may also change, but we have defined the basic parameters. I think that this broad-based concept of defence has become commonplace for both the good questioner and everyone else. Now for that moody word. It is good that we come back so many times to a single word when we look at a 21-page document. The word is "bounced." I've thought about the word myself. I think the language we use has to go along with time, and it is normal that we use new words. This is not some kind of pen-sucking word, but it is a collaboration between several committees and very many wise people. Such words are always added both in the field of defence and in all other areas. After all, we have dozens of words in common that know-it-all people have invented. We'll finally get used to this beggars. The previous speaker also spoke about elasticity. At the time of the Prime Minister's reply, the word 'elasticity' was repeatedly mentioned either by the questioners or by the respondent. In fact, it means, I quote, 'the ability of society to recover quickly from the effects of negative events, to restore its strength, tone and success. " This is what society's bounced open. I've been joking with the people of the Commission that if someone starts to get their birthdays full, you could write to him on a map: 'Happy birthday and beggars for the future! '
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U126	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U127	Thank you very much for that word. But the fundamentals of security policy and security strategies have already been addressed in this Chamber a few times since the mid-1990s. Once we call the same thing total defense, once broad defence. I am not so interested in the possibility of making any corrections to this document, but in the fact that we should start taking stock of these matters. Otherwise, we don't know why we still can't make it. We need to figure these things out for ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U128	If you think it's a question, I'll answer it. I totally agree with the questioner. There should be periodic reviews of such texts, and there is an agreement in the format and where this presentation should take place, either in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu or in the committees that are involved in this area, i.e. in the National Defence Committee and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. These reviews should be made. In the committee, too, this topic was in the debate and it became clear that already last autumn the Committee on Foreign Affairs had proposed the date, it was on 19 September, that the Prime Minister should give the Riigikogu an overview of the implementation of the foundations of security policy twice in its composition, i.e. once every two years. All you had to do was decide what format. I realized that the Prime Minister kindly agreed to come and discuss this subject at a time and in a suitable format and place. All we have to do is agree that we have to deal with these issues routinely and review them. As I said in my speech, it is a living document. Security is never guaranteed once and for all, and we have a duty to deal with these issues constantly in accordance with changing times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U129	I understand it was an opinion. I'd be happy to comment...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U130	It was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U131	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. It is the first reading, the political groups speaking. Ants Laaneots on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U132	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we began to discuss an important document which will serve as a basis for determining the tasks, developments and volumes of security in Estonia, defence and security of the population in the future. The document is a general guide based on other legislation at different levels coming from government, ministries, the Defence Forces and the Defence League, as well as local authorities. It has to be said that thorough work has been done on the document. We discussed this in the Committee on National Defence, there were many questions and proposals. I will introduce these questions and comments here in the Riigikogu Hall, in order to change things in the course of the further procedure. The aim is to produce a document of the highest quality possible. I would like to draw your attention to some observations. The Government of the Republic confirmed the so-called "wide-based national defence strategy" in the same year, in the light of the principles of security policy approved in 2010. It defines the six main strands of defence, which have been guided over the last six years at all levels. These include: military defence, international action, civil sector support for military defence, internal security, ensuring the continuity of vital services in society and psychological protection. Now, if you look at this bill and look at the defence strategy, it stands out that, for the first two, I mean military defence and international action, everything is more or less satisfactory in the draft we are discussing today, except that one point is devoted to military defence, other elements in a broad-based defence have not been given any special attention. I will give examples of internal security. In my opinion, the assessment of the domestic policy situation is incomplete. The potential security risks have not been assessed, and the challenges of dealing with a crisis have not been defined. Civil protection, or civil protection, is not mentioned in the draft, not to mention how to prepare it to ensure the safety of the population. Further, civilian sector support for military defence. The current major challenges, such as the mobilisation of state and national defence, are not reflected. The project does not mention at all how this should proceed, even at the level of the relevant legislation. We take action to ensure the continuity of vital services in society. There is nothing to say that there must be a temporary energy system covering the whole country. Much has been said about this, but the foundations of security policy do not see it coming. In the air, there is a question of disconnecting the electrical system from the Russian Federation's electricity system. Nothing has been said about creating strategic reserves for the whole country in a crisis situation, and I am not talking about defence forces or power structures as a whole. If we're looking at psychological protection, there's no way we can see a word set like growing a defense will. But of course it's necessary. It is also not mentioned how important it is to fight a hybrid war, which is particularly relevant in the current circumstances. I am not going to list all the shortcomings here, but I would ask my colleagues to intervene in the further procedure of the draft. Let us try to make this document as perfect as possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U133	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U134	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I am pleased to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation and to congratulate the government, the State Chancellery and the various authorities for producing this document! Compliments have been made in this Chamber for both content and linguistically good document. The basis for security policy is a framework document which provides the basis for drawing up sectoral development and action plans. This will be the beginning of the entire Estonian security policy policy, whose broadest goal is the security of our people towards tomorrow, not only in terms of military but also in terms of economic, social and natural environment. Defence forces, rescuers, police officers create security, but also doctors, diplomats, social workers, entrepreneurs and civil society associations. You could say that security is created by society as a whole. And the wish of society is that every member of it feel safe. A citizen who feels that the state protects his rights and freedoms is also prepared to stand up for the state. Estonia considers its security as part of international security. Yes, it must be acknowledged that the security environment throughout the world has undoubtedly wavered. It is therefore not right to keep the borders of our country in mind when making plans for Estonia's security. The rest of the world must also be set aside, as what is happening at global level also has a significant impact on what is happening at regional level. When painting our security picture, we cannot just fit our immediate neighbours on its edges, we must take on a larger canvas and take into account what is happening thousands of kilometres away. I will, for example, mention the arrival of refugees in Europe, at first sight the political events of local importance in a European country, or, if you want to look further, even North Korea, whose steps will also force other countries into action. These examples are just one part of our security formula that we all have to take into account. Years ago, our focus was on trying to become a member of NATO and the European Union. Today, as a member of these two organisations, we can see that our actions to prevent security threats and respond flexibly to crises are primarily related to their international associations. For security to be guaranteed today, tomorrow and years from now, the strength, internal solidarity and mutual cooperation of these organisations are of direct interest to all of us. But not on all issues can we count on allied relations and cooperation with good partners. For example, we can still support our demographic curve, social cohesion and individual coping with our national policies. The important orientations of the current document are also to address broader security perspectives. Ensuring national security and sustainability in a 20- and 30-year perspective requires an informed and far-reaching policy. Our own trends, whether it be a depopulation or an ageing population, are critical in this regard, alongside the global players. The debate on population decline is once again on the agenda for all of us in this House. The central principle of the draft is a broad security approach. It is precisely because in today's world it is not possible to predict to the end what dangers we may face. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum, the danger may lie in other things than diplomacy or classical military force. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U135	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U136	Technology, especially information technology, is playing an increasingly important role in our daily lives. It can be said with certainty that cyberthematics affects all aspects of life. Our digital lifestyle therefore needs protection in the same way as our security in the land territory, our territorial waters and our airspace. It is the threats of cyberspace that we must take much more account of in the future. A few words about military defense. We consider it important that Estonia continues to contribute at least 2% of GDP to defence costs. This is a principle that we must certainly respect, regardless of time or situation. As far as foreign missions are concerned, we must also be prepared to contribute to international operations if we want the allies to give us a helping hand at a difficult moment. Ladies and gentlemen, We need Estonia's security policy to preserve nationalism and its continuity in order to prevent and prevent threats and, if necessary, to face them quickly and flexibly. The security of the Estonian state and the people is a shared responsibility of all of us. To do so, I wish all of us wisdom and peace of mind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U137	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U138	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party welcomes the document on the basis of Estonia's security policy, as it reflects a great deal of the thinking and the proposals that the Free Party has made in its short time while in this large hall. We have always said that we cannot deal with security policy simply from the perspective of the ministries of power and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We must address security in society as a whole by going to the last detail of regional policy, rural life, agriculture, everything. We've talked about this a lot. The document we are discussing today is on the same wavelength as us, and we are very pleased about that. At the same time, the dissonance between this document and real life is very worrying. When we talk about a citizen who can handle himself and a responsible citizen, the actions of the government lead to more and more helplessness being taught in society. The so - called taught helplessness syndrome has begun to spread in society. In this way, the document on the basis of the security policy could not be satisfied with the government's actions when more and more efforts are being made to regulate society at every last step of the way. Such a document does not work in an order-prohibit society. When people are made aware that you are in safe hands, because the government will take care of you, people will also call an ambulance to cure the cold. Then there's something wrong with the base approach. Perhaps it is strange to talk about the 'luck index' or the 'luck survey' on the basis of security policy, which was recently published in the press. Estonia is 66th in this happiness study. In fact, this study tells us clearly what we should be dealing with first and foremost. It is about the fact that Estonian society is not coherent enough. And actually, we don't have to do any research to find out. Let us look at any issue that arises topically, such as Rail Baltic. We can see that Estonian society has polarised. Or the question of the situation of the forest again, Estonian society has polarised. And the government is not looking for a compromise and a good solution so that society does not polarize, but it acts more and more in such a way that society becomes polarised even worse. Coherence in our society is lacking and this is demonstrated by the Luck Index Survey. Surely trust in your government is very important. The foundations of security policy also reflect that if there is a great deal of corruption in the governance of the country, it is a very serious threat to security policy that must be combated. I would call on the government and, above all, the Prime Minister's parties to fight corruption in Tallinn, for example, which is a very serious issue. I'm asking for more time just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U139	Three minutes extra time just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U140	The happiness study also notes how much people's word costs in society. This is one thing that has been strongly accused of current leadership, that people are not to be heard. This is certainly a determining factor, however, if we are to strive for a self-perceived society, if we are to rely on charity and that people themselves are willing to voluntarily contribute to security and not only security, but more generally to volunteering. There are 66th place in Estonia in this ranking. So the thing is, there's a lot of work. We very much hope that this paper will not only be dusted in paper on a shelf, but that practical steps will also be taken to implement the proposals of the Population Protection Task Force. We hope that schools will teach not only defence in military terms, but also a broad understanding of national defence to the last details, and that if there is a debate on a broad approach to national defence, other areas will be included. Why, for example, could the Committee on Rural Affairs not participate in discussions on basic national security documents? So, in any case, we will stand up for this and keep an eye on this document being followed by concrete practical and societal steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U141	Marianne Mikko on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U142	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite clear that such a framework document is necessary. This vital political paper also needs to be reviewed because of the changed security situation, and that is what we have done today. The Social Democrats highlight some of the key words in the foundations of security policy. Estonia is based on a broad concept of national defence, which brings together military and non-military capabilities, activities and resources in the public, private and third sectors. The foundations of security policy clearly state that Estonia is developing six national defence policies for the lasting and effective functioning of national defence: military defence, support for military defence in the civil sector, international action, internal security and internal security, ensuring the continuity of the state and society, and psychological protection. Estonia's military defence is based on primary independent protection and NATO's collective defence. Estonia's security guarantee is membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. It is very remarkable that Estonia first became a NATO Member State and only a month and a few days later in 2004 a Member State of the European Union. NATO's collective defence provides Estonia with credible deterrence and military protection. Estonia's security is strengthened by belonging to the political, legal and economic common space of the European Union, based on the trust, cooperation and common values of the Member States. The European Union is the more united and stronger the more Member States have a consensus. Closer integration of the European Union in foreign and security policy will provide better protection against security threats. A more integrated European Union is more capable and influential in its external action. The European Union's common foreign, defence and security policy, in conjunction with all other areas of the European Union's activities, is also an important factor in achieving Estonia's security objectives. Political dialogue and closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO, mutual coordination of their activities, are essential for a more effective defence of European and transatlantic interests. Estonia will continue to promote opportunities for cooperation between the European Union and NATO, including in the field of strategic communication. That is what it says on the basis of security policy. As far as Russia is concerned, due to the aggressive behaviour that has intensified in Moscow over the last decade, Estonia is working to ensure that the European Union and NATO are united and consistent in their Russian policy. Estonia supports the retention of restrictions until the reasons for imposing them have been removed. As a neighbouring country, Estonia supports practical cooperation with Russia to the extent necessary and maintains the opportunity for dialogue. It would be in the interests of Estonia to develop democracy and the rule of law in Russia. We would like to mention another topic, this is cyberspace. Cyberspace has changed relations and communication between people and has become part of global human development, as well as political struggle and warfare. The impact of the information field that distorts reality has led to tensions in international relations, radicalisation of certain groups and the degradation of social cohesion. Manipulation of information and dissemination of false information, also at national level, is widely used to escalate conflicts. Cyberspace abuse is increasing. Cyber security and digital services are areas in which Estonia has gained credibility internationally. Estonia is able to influence the development of all this area at a global level. I confirm the Prime Minister's words: the protection of cyberspace is as important as the protection of land, air and sea. Estonia's share of defence expenditure of 2% of GDP is the best evidence that Estonia takes its security seriously. Moreover, Estonia sets an example for NATO and the Member States of the European Union. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U143	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U144	Finally, I am very pleased to note that the foundations of Estonian security policy are written in good Estonian language. It is important that our document attaches importance to a beautiful mother tongue. The people of Estonia need to understand what one or the other policy paper means for the citizen; they need to understand it exactly. And this document is written in a beautiful, unambiguous language. The Social Democrats support the foundations of Estonian security policy 2017'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U145	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Mart Helme, I am very sorry, but you will have the floor tomorrow, unfortunately not today. At 13 o'clock, Question Time begins, and the Technical Service has asked for 15 minutes to reconfigure this machine here. We'll continue reading bill 395 tomorrow. The chairman's break until 1:00 p.m. Closure of the sitting at 12.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U146	Honourable Riigikogu! Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the Foreign Minister Sven Mikser and the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm are in briefings. I will give you two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U147	The first questioner is Andres Ammas and the first is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U148	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Your government's budgetary strategy and plan to relax Estonia's fiscal policy has now been less or more strongly criticised by both Eesti Pank and the fiscal council. What do you not agree with them, the Bank of Estonia and the Fiscal Council? Why don't you take these estimates into account? Do you know anything more than them? Or is it as simple as Äripäev says in today's editorial that budget policy smells like elections, that the current government is only thinking about the elections of the 2019 Riigikogu and the successful performance there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U149	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Thank you very much for this opportunity to be here in front of you today for Question Time. I'm also sorry that Question Time has moved away from tomorrow. This is because Estonia will soon take over the Presidency and we will have to be before the European Commission tomorrow. I'll answer your question. Certainly, in my opinion, neither the national budget strategy nor the state budget can be based on the forthcoming elections. The country's budgetary strategy must be based on giving greater certainty to our people in society, giving greater coherence to our people in society, and giving a boost to our economic and business environment in society. If you ask what the main dispute is about, then there is a dispute between the Fiscal Council, on the one hand, and the Government of the Republic, on the other, about how the potential for our economic growth is now being seen. Are we saying that we have been able to achieve this potential and that our economic growth is now close to maximum, or are we saying that Estonia's growth potential is much higher or higher than it is in real numbers, and we want to reduce this difference. In a more complex language, it is called a negative GDP gap. That's the point of argument. The Board says that there is no need to stimulate the economy at the moment; there is no need to stimulate the business environment with new and strategic investments, for example. And the government sees it that from what's been going on so far, we can do more. And if you're asking what the point of dispute is, that's what the dispute is all about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U150	Andres Ammas, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U151	Thank you. A good colleague Aivar Sõerd asked very wisely and received an interesting reply from the Ministry of Finance. It turns out that next year's budget will require an additional EUR 341 million. Of this, 137 million are covered by reserves and 204 million are covered by additional loans. But of this money, 341 million, only a third, 115 million, is planned for investment, the remaining two-thirds will go for running costs. Why is that? Is it now a smart and foresighted policy to boost and stimulate the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U152	Thank you for this question. As far as I know, in this briefing today, Aivar Sõerd is also talking about public finances. I think that what a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Sõerd, has done is very welcome. It is very welcome that he has drawn this discussion much wider. It is true that, as far as I know, I, too, have been familiar with the calculations of these figures, and Mr Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu, is talking about revenue and expenses, including financing transactions, etc. And I think that the questions that Mr Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu, has raised in social media in recent days on Facebook will also be answered today and tomorrow in a very concrete way so that budgetary figures are not treated differently. It seems to me that people who, directly, on a daily basis, have not been in contact with the country's budget strategy at the table of the Government of the Republic, maybe just confused some numbers and lines. You can't blame Mr. Sõerdi for that. Surely we will also give him an explanatory answer in the near future so that he can set out his calculations. But there's one thing I appreciate. I think that both you, Mr Sõerd and I and the entire government are actually standing up for not being able to live for the future. You can't live for the future. We can really take action only at the expense of the surplus collected in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U153	Andres Ammas, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U154	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. But I still didn't understand what Mr. Sõerd was wrong about. What do you think the correct figures are? Then please get the correct figures! And you still didn't really answer the question of why more than 200 million goes simply to cover current expenditure and not to invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U155	Thank you. Certainly no cent of the strategic investment plan will go to cover running costs. On the contrary, everything is going for investment: all the EUR 300 million foreseen over the next three years will go for investment. In this sense, your question is rightly set out, where will the money go? Of course, you have to know that. This money goes to infrastructure sites - roads and railways. It goes to the development of information technology and to ensure better access to it for Estonian residents. It also goes into a proper housing fund policy, which has not been in Estonia for a long time, which means cooperation between the state sector and local governments. It will certainly go to a conference and tourism centre with an international dimension. The strong priority of this government has also been defence policy, which was the cornerstone of the document on the basis of security policy just now in this House of the Riigikogu. So this money will also go to defence investments, EUR 60 million from this EUR 300 million circuit. These are the places where the money goes. Mr Sõerdi will certainly be answered, as I said in response to the previous question. I think I know where this difference has come from: it's just wrong to add and subtract certain lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U156	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I'm sure you'd have more clarity in these numbers if the government didn't just mess with the state budget and quietly take it out of balance. You have spoken very much about values in this Chamber, but it seems to me that you have not understood one important value that concerns the balance of the Estonian state budget and which creates value for the whole society. You are now ready to change it and leave the work of other governments on new cuts. Doesn't it seem to you that if the coalition were to change every year, it would seem as if everyone had the right to implement their ideas? And that would actually mean that the next governments should, as if, bring the Estonian budget even more to a disadvantage. Is this a normal policy for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U158	Thank you for this very good question. First of all, it is true that the new budget rule is more flexible than before, but also according to it, the Estonian budget must be structurally balanced on average. After all, the principle is that, in previous years, if there have been surpluses in the state budget, they can have a deficit of up to 0.5% of GDP. This means that a structural balance will be achieved by 2021 according to the National Budget Strategy 2018-2021. What does that mean in numbers? That this is less than 0.5 in 2018, 0.5 in 2019, 0.3 in 2020 and a structural balance in 2021. Now, when you ask what this government has done in these months, you have to admit that quite a number of things have naturally been prepared by previous governments, but for some reason decisions have not been taken. We are taking the same rural or agricultural policy: we have talked about the right solutions, but no decisions have been taken. We are taking the pension reform as a matter of importance that pension reform is sustainable, flexible and linked to life expectancy. We are taking the third major reform, the health reform. Doctors do not need to call for more funding for the health insurance fund in protests. The current government said that the new system will be in place in the spring of this year. And he got it right, there's gonna be extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U159	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I am very pleased that you have gone to the description of the reforms, which is, as you have just mentioned, in the current government's work programme. My first question is: how do you feel about the fact that your government minister, namely Kaia Iva from IRL, has allowed the anarchy and disorder in the administration of your ministry to proceed? We have over 500 children with special needs who are no longer receiving rehabilitation services this year, because it is claimed that the money will simply run out in the first two weeks of January. What is the current government planning to solve this problem this year? And how do you personally assume the responsibility that, as your head of government, you can control the work of your ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U161	Thank you, good questioner. I certainly do not agree with what you said that Kaia Iva will not be able to do her ministerial work. On the contrary, I can see how committed Kaia Iva has gone into her subjects, how seriously she is trying to find solutions. Kaia Iva has, as far as I am concerned, found a solution within her ministry or is moving towards a solution. So I'm definitely going to take this attack against a member of my office, Kaia Iva. On the contrary, I can see that he struggles every day in his ministry to find a solution to the painful issues that exist in the social field. In this respect, you are right that the ampoua is very wide and that it is often quite questionable to find funding there wisely. But I think Kaia has moved very strongly towards solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U162	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U163	The next question is for Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U164	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! At the end of last month, a delegation from the European Union Affairs Commission visited Ukraine, where we met politicians there, representatives of different institutions, entrepreneurs and talked about the problems in Ukraine for several days. It also became clearer the current situation in which the European Union is assisting Ukraine with EUR 3 billion coming from the general budget. Estonia is known to pay its share of the general budget of the European Union and thus, indirectly, there is Estonian taxpayers' money within this EUR 3 billion. At the same time, according to Ukraine Transparency International, there is one of the most corrupt countries in the world and no one controls the use of this EUR 3 billion. Perhaps the allocation of European taxpayers' money to Ukraine will not be controlled by any authority or any human being. Therefore, would it make sense for Estonia to propose at European Union level to create a separate job for the project manager to control the use of this money in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U165	Thank you. First of all, the great recognition of the Riigikogu to the European Union Affairs Committee for the fact that one of our priority countries for development cooperation, Ukraine, is kept in focus of its activities. It is true that Ukraine has been a beneficiary of European aid long before Russia's anti-Ukraine aggression in 2014. The need for both humanitarian aid and other development aid has, of course, been aggravated by this very difficult situation, which is in Ukrainian society, as a result of the aggression in Ukraine. I certainly do not agree with the fact that no one controls the aid granted by the European Union to Ukraine. The European Union's Mission in Kiev has an important role to play in this process. But I would also suggest that you look at the very large report (about 80 pages) produced by the European Court of Auditors at the end of last year, in December, where both this budget support and other forms of support are analysed in detail in various areas and where, in summary, a number of recommendations are made on the right number of pages on how to improve both the allocation of European funds and the monitoring of their targeted and sensible use. It is true that Ukraine certainly has a lot of work to do to reduce its level of corruption. At the same time, the introduction of good governance, the fight against corruption, is also an extremely important area in the European Union's assistance programmes. As regards Estonia's aid, we are, of course, paying into the budget of the European Union. However, in our own bilateral development cooperation, Ukraine, as has been said, is also one of the priority countries and the instruments that we are allocating to Ukraine, we are also controlling ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U166	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U167	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I agree: Estonia also has bilateral direct assistance programmes with Ukraine, but we also have a more accurate overview of these programmes for which this money is allocated. It is true, however, that the European Union will allocate 3 billion to the general budget of Ukraine without any ad hoc need, because Ukraine will carry out the reforms that we have put forward. At the same time, the fact is also that we were convinced that a great deal of reforms will be adopted at the legislative level in Ukraine, but this does not really solve the situation. It is rather indicative proof to the European Union that we are reforming, moving towards a democratic state and reducing corruption, just to get the next instalment of the package. In fact, there is no control over where this money goes from the general budget. Do you see the need to enhance this control, as Ukraine's place in Transparency International has not continued to improve in the corruption ranking?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U168	Thank you. The question was interesting, but rather abstract. If specific abuses were brought to your attention, I would certainly be extremely grateful, I believe, for this information as well as for the institutions of the European Union. European budget support for Ukraine has been divided into quite a number of areas. Examples: reduction or elimination of technical barriers to trade, implementation of the transport strategy, as well as implementation of environmental strategy or environmental policy reforms, improvement of border controls, as well as implementation of the energy strategy. Of course, it can be argued whether budget support is the most verifiable way of providing support. At the same time, in such critical situations, support for countries must strike a certain balance between the effectiveness of support, rapid implementation and, of course, very detailed control, which does not justify any abuse. Our goal is undoubtedly also to increase Ukraine's perception of corruption by index, as well as Transparency International's rankings. Many steps have been taken with the reforms in this direction. From a concrete point of view of Estonia, the way forward is certainly those aimed at using digital solutions to reduce corruption. Ukraine, for example, has implemented an electronic public procurement system in recent years; there is also an electronic system for declaring the economic interests of senior public officials. Such technological tools will certainly also help to minimise and support possible abuses arising from the so-called human factor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U169	Jaak Madison, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U170	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! As you have stated and agreed with me, it is doubtful whether the direct allocation of money to the state budget is the most verifiable way. So, from here on, my first question: would you be willing to propose, if there were to be further disbursements, to raise the issue, for example, in the Council of Foreign Ministers, in order to channel this money to Ukraine in accordance with reforms, in a targeted way, rather than into the general budget of the country? And my second question specifically concerns corruption. According to the information we know, we have met with various parties - NGOs have put pressure on Parliament to publish their tax declarations and declarations of economic interest. As a response, Parliament is imposing the same requirement on persons who are investigating corruption and who are not Members of Parliament. Do you see a problem here and an opportunity to raise the issue of allocating money to Ukraine? After all, it is not normal for the government to put its head on NGOs that control corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U171	Thank you. First of all, your question was based on a somewhat arbitrary assumption that what you saw during your visit to Ukraine could be said to be a great deal of chaos and suspension in the implementation of budget support. I certainly do not really agree with this assumption, although, in the principle, as has been said, budget support from the grantor is probably somewhat less effectively controlled than many other forms of aid. If you have concrete good proposals, I am certainly prepared to analyse them before taking them on board and sharing them with European colleagues. But in this case, the basic data should also be somewhat more detailed than the abstract rumors that your meetings were concerned that the level of corruption was high. The fight against corruption in Ukraine is undoubtedly one of the priorities. This is also a priority for the European Union. The European Union provides Ukraine with a wide range of assistance: technical assistance, budget support, including sector budget support, as well as financial assistance, including macro-financial assistance, as well as humanitarian aid. All these types of aid will certainly be more effective in monitoring the targeted use of the funds. I would like to say once again that I do not really agree that no one is watching over the use of these funds. The European Union will also certainly monitor very closely how these grants are used for their intended purpose, also in the case of budget support. As has been said, for example, a report by the European Court of Auditors on this issue has been produced relatively recently. But if you have concrete proposals on how to improve the monitoring of the use of bilateral assistance from the European Union to Ukraine, or for my sake, too, I am certainly ready to analyse them first, share these ideas with the Estonian Government and then, if necessary, with my European colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U172	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U173	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I must grieve you: things take their right place in long-term perspective. And when I went to Ukraine as an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1994, the stories I heard there were similar to those I hear in this Chamber. Firstly, combating corruption is our priority. Secondly, we need European aid very much, because otherwise we will not be able to carry out reforms. Thirdly, reforms are our priority. In the meantime, we have seen that Ukraine has become a completely failed country, where everyone steals everything and local people know it. And there is full order: everyone knows what a particular post holder can steal and what he can't steal. Should we not view it, as we do in the case of Greece, responsibly and insist that there is no money before the next batch, when certain things have been done, and that it is verifiable? Should we not go to the Council of Ministers with such proposals rather than agree to throw money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U174	Thanks, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U175	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Ukraine has undertaken a very ambitious reform agenda. It is certainly difficult to implement such reforms even in a time of blissful peace. In a situation where the state is fighting the aggressor for its survival and independence, implementation of these reforms is even more difficult. Should abuse be overlooked in this situation? I'm sure you wouldn't. Will the European Union do this? No, I'm not. What raises questions, however, is why in this hall, in a situation where Estonia has identified Ukraine as one of its countries of development cooperation, where over the years we have provided assistance to Ukraine for about EUR 9 million, about 6 million in the last three years, and where we actually know that the Kremlis contributes very much to the end of Ukraine's country's endurance before the aggressor's patience breaks out, you take the attack on Ukraine and depict it as a completely failed country, which does not even deserve the support of the European Union. This is a country with more than one and a half million internal refugees, as many people have left the country. About five million people need help every day. The European Union also provides large-scale humanitarian aid to Ukraine, among other things. Humanitarian aid, for example, is a type of aid that is usually not subject to any political threads. I think that, being very demanding of both our bilateral assistance and the monitoring of the use of aid provided by the European Union, we must, however, take into account that this is a country that is fighting against the aggressor for its survival and support this country in its right and just efforts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U176	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Listening to this discussion raises the question of whether, at the moment when aggression is clearly continuing, it is possible to compete with corruption at this level or eradicate it. We know that as a result of this aggression, which has actually been machinated by the Russian authorities, the simplest people are suffering the most. That is why I am convinced that Estonia will continue to support Ukraine and those people who are in very deep trouble. Do you believe that the corruption index will also move in a positive direction if it does not change as quickly as we imagine it to become a real obstacle at some point to the fact that simple people will no longer receive aid from the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U178	Thank you. First of all, it is also important to be demanding to support a country in a difficult situation, and many of these reforms are applicable if it is to be done. Movements in corruption rankings can hardly be rapid, with very steep jumps, but efforts must and have been made in this direction. I am far from saying that Ukraine is a corruption-free country or that it will be tomorrow or next year. But, in fact, we know that everywhere in the world, even in those countries that are far-high above Ukraine in this ranking, Estonia is very, very much higher in this ranking, i.e. in our country, corruption must be combated both at the level of state power and at lower levels of power every day and every hour. If the competent authorities, or the press, bring certain abuses, violations, corruption, to light, on the one hand, it must be felt sad that this practice exists, but on the other hand it must also be welcomed that corruption cases can be exposed. So in a society where no corruption cases are ever discovered, one should certainly ask whether the reason is that it is a completely corruption-free society or whether it is something else. And I think that a society or a country in which state power is exercised, but the fight against corruption is not necessary, because corruption simply does not exist, can only exist in our own Utopia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U179	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U180	Asks Aivar Sõerd and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U181	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! First of all, I reject the statement made in your response to Mr Ammas, as if my figures were misleading about the use of the budget reserves for the following year and the need for loans. I rely on my budget strategy in numbers. Since you've been doing so poorly that there's no important information, I've been asking for more information from the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I have taken account of both the budget deficit and the financing operations, which could not be otherwise. By the way, you are misleading the public with the numbers torn out of your context and the concealment of important information. But I'll ask you if my numbers aren't accurate. How much reserves and credit will be needed to cover deficit and negative cash flow next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U182	Thank you, good asker, honorable Aivar Sõerd! I don't understand why you're so attacking. Don't be! We try to have this conversation in good faith and in numbers. I think that the fact that you are asking these questions is very correct. This will certainly provide much more clarity, and that is what is needed. I also find it very welcome when members of the Riigikogu turn to the ministries, as you said, that you have made an additional request for information to the Ministry of Finance regarding the budgetary strategy of the state. I think that the state budget is such a document, as you know, you have also held the office of Minister of Finance, that it really must be very precise about what we compare. You have to compare comparable things. It cannot be that, on the revenue side, we take into account the same lines and the other basic principles on the expenditure side. When we are talking about the nominal fiscal position of the government sector, the figures according to the country's budgetary strategy are as follows: in 2018 minus 196 million, in 2019 minus 168 million, in 2020 minus 78 and in 2021 plus 31 million. If you want to know what the government's nominal fiscal position is according to the country's fiscal strategy, these figures are exactly what I told you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U183	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! You are misleading again because you are telling me the nominal position of the budget in answer, but I asked how much reserves and a loan are needed to cover the negative cash flow and deficit. These numbers are much bigger. But I'm still asking my question, which I wanted to ask you. In any case, you will use reserves next year and also take out a loan to cover your deficit. As far as I know, 140 million euros will be taken from the reserve. The Estonian state has liquid assets, so-called reserves, 2 billion, but a large part of this is under the unemployment fund reserve, local government reserves and also the stabilisation reserve. There's quite a few reserves left in there. I ask if you care at all, and have you discussed that if you spend reserves at this rate, we still have available reserves for several years at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U185	Thank you. Do I even care? I'm very curious. There's no doubt about that. I'm sure I'll give you an accurate overview of the reserves, line-by-line and number-by-number, I'll send it to you. If you count all these reserves and think I have all these numbers in my pocket, if we have discussed the foundations of security policy, then that is not the case. But you will definitely get these numbers, and this review will, of course, be available to the Ministry of Finance. I'm still coming back to my earlier answer. It is true that the new budget rule is more flexible than before, i.e. point one, but also according to it, the Estonian budget must be structurally balanced on average. As I said, we are going to go to a budget deficit in 2018/2019, if it is 0.5, and in 2020, if it is 0.3%, and by 2021, we have already achieved a structural balance. But these reserve numbers that you want to know exactly, we will of course send them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U186	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your answer to Mr Ammas's question, you said something about the fact that the money for investment in the country's budget strategy is going to be invested. But I don't think you've proved to us that the money you're making a deficit in the state budget is going to be invested. You have not been able to dissuade this hall here, mostly you are increasing the running costs. My question is, in fact, driven by page 89 of the country's budgetary strategy, where there is one beautiful table with columns, which clearly shows the difference in revenue and expenditure up to 2021. In particular, we go to the minus in 2018 and 2019. You will do all this at the expense of the next governments. Classic question: is it a shame?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U188	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. As I have said, the budget cannot be let down at the expense of the future. That was completely wrong of you. For the budget, the amounts collected can be used. We cannot spend today and say that in 2018 we will put the budget down to EUR x million, after all, in 2019, 2020 or 2021 the position will improve. That is certainly not what the government is doing, and here there are completely different starting points. I also answered the question of where we are now having this disagreement with the Fiscal Council. This comes from the fact that today's government and the Ministry of Finance say that we have not received the potential for economic growth that the Estonian state has. Structural changes in business or economic policies need to be made in order to achieve this, but certain strategic investments also need to be made. I assure you once again: none of the cents that go into strategic investments and the cover of which is a loan are linked to current expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U189	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U190	Thank you. Prime Minister, please say this number once again how much you intend to invest in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U191	Thank you. That is a very good question, because it is worth drawing attention to. In my opinion, this is the largest investment volume in the history of the Estonian state, which is 1.4 billion euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U192	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U193	The next answer is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm and asks Arno Sild. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The people of the University of Life Sciences have expressed the opinion that the lack of certain amounts may be an obstacle to the preparation of veterinarians. Even such a risk may be that they cannot prepare students in such a way that they meet the so-called European standard and the level of veterinarians in other countries. Do you think there are solutions here? Our Committee on Rural Affairs has already discussed this issue once, but no real solutions were found at the time. How can we proceed with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U195	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I broadly agree with you that there is no clear solution today on how to proceed with veterinary training at the University of Earth, so that it can also be fully funded. Their request and expectation is about EUR 500000, which would be further needed to move forward with this training at the level of maintaining accreditation beyond 2020. They are currently financed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs in the amount of EUR 51000 from this year's budget. That is all we are able to put in our budget to co-finance there. There is, however, a law adopted on 1 January 2015, which provides that veterinary training is to be financed further by the state budget, i.e. the state budget comes from the state budget to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, who makes an agreement with the University of Land Sciences. But unfortunately, the state budget does not have the resources to do so. The new budget negotiations also ended in such a way that we had a difference of opinion and consensus, and no agreement was reached on this issue. I am very pleased that the Committee on Rural Affairs is consistently focusing on this issue, and I know that today at two o'clock it will be there again in the debate. The Ministry of Finance has also sent you a letter as to how he sees this question. Their position is that the University of Life Sciences is, by law, an independent structure that receives money from the state budget, but who has to decide for themselves which study programmes it implements. So the Ministry of Finance doesn't have a special facility here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U196	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U197	Thank you. Can you tell me if the University of Life Sciences currently has such problems in teaching other disciplines or whether such a serious problem has arisen only in the case of veterinarians?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U198	Thank you. As far as I know, there's no such lack of money in other disciplines, I haven't heard it in my ears. But, to sum up, the opponents take the position that the university must decide for itself which speciality it prefers: whether it teaches economics, which the rest of Estonian universities teach enough, or whether it chooses veterinary training and allocates money for it. It is his choice, he is independent, and it is his decision-making level: the university must decide for itself and find out what it wants. But I think that additional funding would be needed for veterinary training, because I can't imagine Estonian agriculture in the future if we don't have any veterinary training and we have to start bringing these specialists in from somewhere. Very many Finnish citizens are also studying in veterinary education. I have been told that they have learned Estonian and that they can study free of charge in Estonia. But, yeah, I don't have the information to haunt some other profession right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U199	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Rural Affairs! The Prime Minister has also said several times about how this government makes strategic investments. In fact, it is regrettable that there has been no investment in this same learning and this problem has been left unsolved, despite the fact that the money has been given to the sector quite a lot. Who will take responsibility at the moment that the University of Life Sciences loses this accreditation and that education is no longer available in Estonia? Will the current government take this responsibility? And if you referred to the fact that economic education may not have to be promoted so much in the country university, then I feel that economic training is also needed for the current government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U201	Thank you for your good advice. What I said was there's freedom of decision in a country university, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Each university is free in its own decisions and politicians should not intervene or teach how they conduct their studies. That's their right and privilege, that's what comes with the law. They get money from the state budget, and they make a choice. But who's responsible? All responsible, of course: responsible for the university's management, responsible for the Board of Governors. That's right. The current law, which was adopted on 1 January 2015, makes it very clear that the additional financing needed to cover the organisation of clinical learning or the operating costs is from the state budget. And I don't know why Mr. Kruuse, as the previous minister from the state budget, didn't ask for this money, after all, this money could have been in the state budget this year. So I don't know why you don't think economically.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U202	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As far as freedom is concerned, I recall that freedom is perceived as an inevitability. The university is simply in an inevitable state where it has to make painful decisions. But we were talking about security here before, how many hours we spent discussing it, and at the same time we have the example of a swine plague. And when we put these two things together, we will see that it is extremely irresponsible if we are unable to equip Estonia with specialists who are able to fight diseases adequately from a purely security point of view. Do you think you're gonna raise that question in the government, or is the train completely gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U204	Thank you for your question. As I said, the Ministry of Finance and I have different positions. I also signed a protocol where I disagreed. I'm sure I'll get on with it. I will continue on this issue even when next year's state budget will be processed. As I said, I am pleased that the Committee on Rural Affairs is very active in thinking, that the student body of the University of Earth and their representatives are also thinking. So everyone is actively involved in the veterinary community, etc. I hope we can find a positive solution here. But as I said, according to the law, this money comes from the state budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, through which it will then be allocated to the University of Land Sciences. I have never said that I am not in favour of allocating this money. I say that I am saddened that there has been no allocation for this year's budget. It did not depend in any way on me for the six months that the budget was due to be adopted, because this budget had already been established since last spring. And unfortunately, there were no funds on the state budget line. I think we should ask the former minister why these funds were not allocated there. But I will do everything in my power to make sure that these funds are there, and that financial need will be covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U205	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U206	Arthur Talvik's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U207	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! For years, the Estonian people were told how Rail Baltic will finally unify us from Russia. Now that the cost-benefit analysis has come up, it appears that it takes account of 31% of Russian goods. Why have our people been hit by flies for years, and it has not been honestly said that it is primarily intended to carry Russian goods with Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U208	Thank you. First of all, I do not understand why politicians do not want to take specific views on Rail Baltic. I say: I think this is a very good project. I think that Rail Baltic is needed by Estonia; Estonian society has always been a people of the faith in train traffic. And I think it is also environmentally friendly, it leads to a great deal of traffic intensity between Tallinn and Pärnu, and it certainly increases road safety. We have said with the government that when I signed the Rail Baltic Treaty on 31 January, I also received approval from the government on 6 January, we will not send this agreement to the Riigikogu for ratification until the final assessment of Ernst & Young has been made. Ernst & Young's final assessment has been revealed and the government has decided to send this contract to the Riigikogu on 27 April, when there was an office meeting that was turned into a meeting of the Government of the Republic. Now the question is who's gonna win Rail Baltic. I have experienced myself, and the Finnish Prime Minister has asked me several times that the Finnish state has an interest. When Rail Baltic comes, the trade and passenger flows from Scandinavia through the Baltics will certainly be of interest to Europe. I think it's positive. If there's a chance that Rail Baltic route could have more transit traffic, why not? This will certainly help the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U209	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U210	Thank you for your answer. I didn't get the answer directly, but I'll keep asking. The Latvians also invest in their "Riga Airport" section during this funding period, the Lithuanians invest in a part between Kaunas and Vilnius. Estonians will start to invest in the main route without being sure that money will come to Rail Baltic in the next funding period. Why this courage in the case of Estonians? And where does this assurance come from that, in the next funding period, taking into account Brexit and all other circumstances, the money will come to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U211	Thank you. I think that, for the next funding period, the more important question is what will be the proportions in terms of funding. That's point one. Point two: it is not true that Estonia will not invest in anything until the next budget period. It does, just like it does to airport connections. Already this year, as far as I know, this project should have a tram connection between Ülemiste and the airport. And not only, we also invest in the construction of the Pärnu and Ülemiste railway station, as well as in the archaeological digs that remain on this route, in addition to the earthworks. These are the investments that will be made during this period. But the question is justified in the sense that Brexit naturally raises the question of how the next budgetary perspective for the European Union will be put together. I have also said very strongly and clearly that if the proportion of 80: 20 or 81: 19 is changing to the detriment of the Estonian taxpayer, then this project must be taken apart again and asked for a new mandate from all parliaments. If you're asking me what this is like right now, it's like we've been talking about this for years. With regard to the construction of Rail Baltic, there is a sense that is quite strong, that Europe considers it important, that this project is not simply being pulled down. Yes, a separate issue is, of course, the proportion and percentage of funding. At present, this project, including according to a cost-benefit analysis, is structured in such a way that we consider that 80% of the funding comes from the European Union and 20% we ask Estonian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U212	Arthur Talvik, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U213	Thank you. A few moments ago we discussed the foundations of security policy, where there was one very important factor: society is strong when it is not polarised. The question of Rail Baltic, however, has polarised Estonian society very strongly. How do you, as Prime Minister, intend to regroup this divided society if, in fact, you represent a certain line of Rail Baltic coming and that is the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U214	Thank you. I do not see that the Estonian society has polarised and broken as strongly as you describe in your question because of Rail Baltic. I really don't see it. If they come to this demonstration, then Estonia is a democratic state, and demonstrations can be made. If there are people who say they don't support Rail Baltic, it's their free choice, and you can't blame it. I think the best message, as I said, is that when Rail Baltic is ready at one point, we will see how important this connection really is: Between Ülemiste and Pärnu 43 minutes, Between Ülemiste and Riga 2 hours, between Ülemiste and Kaunas 3.5 hours. We can see that during this period there will be very large investments in Estonia, which will certainly contribute to our economic growth, as well as to our employment. I think we can also see that when Rail Baltic is finished, the road safety assessment says roughly that when you drive a passenger car, the probability of an accident is hundreds of times higher (i.e. 300 times) than in train traffic. When travelling by public transport (bus versus train), the probability of an accident is about three times higher than on the railroad. It is said that the Rail Baltic freight train takes 50 trucks from Tallinn to Pärnu. I think these are very specific and serious reasons why this Community is important. Furthermore, he is important because, if there is greater interest from the Scandinavian side, which was my answer to the first question, it will certainly increase the activity of our business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U215	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U216	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! This Ernst & Young analysis could, of course, be discussed further, as the public has not, in fact, seen an analysis but a summary of it. And in this conclusion, it is very well stated that the project is even if all things go along the best expected course of action, all the trade flows that are highly optimistically predicted, and all the European funding that is predicted, etc., etc., i.e. everything-all fits in with 3.96 billion minus, and that the project will only become profitable if we put in there the so-called speculative environmental benefits or the claim that people will survive more. I ask whether it would not be much cheaper and, after much less maintenance costs, the road traffic in Tallinn and Tallinn would be much less expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U217	Thank you, good questioner! Between 2015 and 2015, if the proportion of the budget does not change, as I answered the previous question, we will ask Rail Baltic to provide the Estonian taxpayer with a circular of 268,5 million euros. What happens when Rail Baltic is ready? I certainly do not dare to say that this is a zero-euro project. The majority of transport connections receive grants. We see this in Estonia, even in the case of ferry traffic between Virtsu and Kuivastu and Rohuküla and Heltermaa. The question is how much you have to pay. There are estimates that this could amount to a maximum of EUR 10 million per year. As soon as passenger and freight trains begin to travel there, this amount should decrease. I am not opposed to the Rail Baltic project Via Baltica. Via Baltica has been spoken for over 25 years. I very much hope that the country will make the decision as soon as possible to actually proceed with the construction of Via Baltica. I fully agree that this secure connection is needed from Tallinn to Pärnu and from there to Iklan. The connection between Tallinn and Tartu from Tallinn to Mäoni has already been decided. What has not been decided, and what I believe to be a serious discussion, is how to move from Mäo to Tartu. Is it 2 plus 2 or 2 plus 1? In my opinion, train traffic between Tallinn and Tartu should become faster in the near future. It should rise from 120 km/h to 135 km/h, which would give 15 minutes of victory in the order of magnitude. This would shorten the journey from two hours and eight minutes to one hour and 53 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U218	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! Your examples are simply not adequate, because they have nothing to do with Rail Baltic. Of course the Via Baltica must be built, of course the Tallinn road must be built. But if you're telling us these stories here, you're talking like we don't have any railroads, but you do. We also have a railroad to Pärnu. We could also put on this railroad all the recs that run on the Pärnu-Tallinn highway and take them along the railroad. Why don't we do it? Why can't we find money to speed up the Pärnu-Tallinn railway line? I don't know. In any case, my question is as follows. Don't you think that at a time when I mean the rest of the world, I mean the developed world, we're about to move on to a whole new generation of rail traffic and experiment with hyperloop (or whatever we call it), we're going to have the essence of 19th-century technology put on our head and start paying for it...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U221	...while we have two underburdened railway lines?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U222	Once again, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U223	Thank you, good questioner! If I am asked by the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Rail Baltic, about the comparison with the traffic between Tallinn and the traffic between Via Baltica and Tallinn, I will of course answer that question. From the question you asked: shouldn't we look at hyperloop and think about this project? I've met their representatives, too. As far as I know, there is no actual working hyperloop at this point, i.e. in May 2017. As far as I am concerned, the first such experiment should be completed in the size of 500 metres in the desert, in the United States, and it will certainly take place without people inside. True, the first hyperloop project is expected to be completed in the coming years. Could it ever reach Europe, including Estonia? I think today to say that it's going to be like this is a huge asset. We certainly do not oppose innovative solutions and the hyperloop wish to reach Berlin from Tallinn in 90 minutes is excellent. The question is who will cover this investment, what are the maintenance costs, etc. If you say today that there is a railway connection between Tallinn and Pärnu, then yes, it exists. And I think the current government is not the government that shuts down this rail link. But there is no rail connection beyond Pärnu, there is no train connection. I am not so critical of this rail link that it dates back to the 19th century. I think it will also work in the 21st century in a very environmentally friendly, very operational and very customer-friendly way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U224	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U225	Now Yoko Alender can ask another question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U226	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! The living environment is a mirror of society. The capital is, if we develop this living environment well, our business card, which will boost the competitiveness of our country as a whole. Do you think that this is a prudent use of state property as the most prominent location on the seaside plot where the opera theatre was once planned to be built, the gas station? Is that our level? Will you join your party partner in thinking that we should consider the gas station as a public space and also take our distant guests to see where we have reached with the development of our seaside?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U227	Thank you, Mr Alender, for this question. The Prime Minister certainly does not need to be aware of all the plans in Estonian municipalities, including Tallinn, but of course I will answer this question because I am familiar with the subject. Point one: this has been a government proposal. As far as I know, this must be discussed by the city council. And what they finally decide to plan is the task of the city council. Point two: as far as I know about the plot you are talking about, the National Opera's construction of the new opera house on this site has been opposed to the National Heritage Board. Point three: what do we have to consider? We must take into account that there will most likely be a new and main entrance to and exit from the port of Tallinn. Certainly there are certain cultural requirements for future construction on this site, and, I would say, cultural requirements due to the view of Tallinn's Old Town. I'm not quite sure if the National Opera itself says that this is the right place to build a new opera house, i.e. on the property you're talking about. As far as I know, they've given up that idea. They haven't given up building a new opera house and investing, but they've given up this place. And this must also be seen in the context that, as far as I know, this will be done in the exchange at the moment when the gas station at the Cultural Cup and City Hall is moving away to open up more seaside for the townspeople and our guests. What were you asking? Is the gas station part of the public space? I don't think it's culturally.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-02_U228	Thank you. I will also stop dealing with this issue. Question time's over. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser and Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! Closure of the sitting at 2.03 p.m.
