ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 14th working week of the V plenary session. I wish us all a happy European day. The possibilities and causes of this day's dawn are still being fought with words to this day. We have the opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries to make progress in Estonia and throughout Europe. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Checking for presence. 73 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U2	We will begin to deal with the items on today's agenda by continuing the first reading of the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act, the Road Transport Act and the Tax Administration Act 419 initiated by the Government of the Republic. As you can see, the tablet has been restored to the debate last week in the middle of a state of unfinished business. I invite Minister Kadri Simson to the chair so he can answer one question for the time being, but maybe there will be more questions. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U3	Thank you. Dear Minister, I promise I won't ask you to redefine the entire draft. The question, however, is as follows. The purpose of the draft law is to start implementing such a payment so that the user pays for the use of the tea. Has the state taken into account that the money collected is invested in those road sections where the road cover has been most damaged and damaged, or is the state collecting the money and then distributing it from the state budget as it sees fit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U4	Thank you. I would first like to thank Inara Luis, who gave me reason to stand before the Riigikogu again today by giving her wish to ask a question on Thursday. In the case of road user charges for heavy goods vehicles, it has indeed been taken into account that the money collected goes into infrastructure. Precise objects have not yet been selected, but they are likely to be the main highways where heavy goods vehicles are most heavily driven. The feeling of gratitude for being here with this bill again before you is also materialised by the fact that I am trying to answer one question that I owed on Thursday's reply. Indeed, Madis Milling asked whether the road user fee should also be paid for voluntary rescue trucks. I'm gonna settle this debt. Although I have already said on Thursday that it is not supposed to be paid by rescue cars, I can confirm, read the text of the bill again this weekend, that according to the draft the road user fee is exempt, among other things, from the local government entity, non-profit association, foundation or company truck and its trailer, which are mainly used for rescue purposes. In order to implement this distinction, the traffic register must state that the car is used primarily for rescue purposes. 22 N3 vehicles are currently marked in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U5	Inara Luigas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U6	Thank you. Dear Minister, I might even have given up this question, but I have really read the draft properly, because it also directly affects my region of home, South-East Estonia, where large machines are quite nicely breaking you. Here's my question. You have provided in the draft that the collection of this tax may be transferred to a private legal entity. Our experience in border crossings shows that there is an agreement on the basis of which we pay waiting areas or parking fees to the private sector simply empty; we will not benefit from them at all. Is the state still ensuring that there is no such thing, that we simply pay some kind of reward, but that it doesn't do any good?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U7	Yes, the point of the bill is that we can, by means of an administrative contract, grant gas station chains, ports, shipping companies and other potential service providers permission to charge road user fees. In this case, the Road Administration retains a number of administrative contracts, but it is easier for heavy goods vehicles entering Estonia to pay the fee. There are no separate parking areas planned. The purpose of the law is to determine how drivers of vehicles arriving here would be able to pay it physically on the spot, in addition to the possibility of paying the fee online.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U8	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U9	Thank you. Madam Secretary! You're talking about gratitude. How grateful are the taxpayers for this reward? Does this somehow make competition fairer? How much does it burden our local carriers, or is it a burden enough for travelers to pass through, compared to how much do they burden us? I'm sorry, I haven't been to this debate. The biggest doubt about this has always been that our carriers will be burdened, but transit will not pay its fair share. Can you sum this up briefly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U10	Dear Jürgen Ligi! I really appreciate you being in the hall today, and I can tell you what it is. I didn't see you here on Thursday. If you don't mind, I understand that there are other important points on the agenda today, then I will repeat all that I have already said on Thursday. This bill was preceded by a study commissioned by the State Chancellery in 2015 entitled "Opportunities for the application of transport taxes in Estonia'. The reason for this order was probably that only Estonia and Finland had failed to collect the road user fee from the heavy goods vehicles passing through. The principle is that the user pays. However, transit vehicles passing through Estonia could not pay the fee because we simply did not collect it. The study looked at road transport taxation solutions implemented in ten European countries (Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany, Slovakia, Portugal and Ireland). After the current government had taken office on 23 November, we came up with the intention of developing a law on the basis of previous studies. In the European Union, the principle is that when a user has to pay a road user's charge, this charge is collected from all the vehicles that travel on the road. The choice is whether this charge is mileage-based or time-based. We chose a time-based fee because it gives us the opportunity to take a longer period of permission for the Estonian machine, which is much cheaper than 365 one-day permits. We also consulted with organisations that connect road transport companies with the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers and the Estonian Association of Car Companies, as well as with the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We took into account their proposals. While, at the beginning, the intention of the law was to impose a fee on machinery over 12 tonnes, both representative organisations said that this should apply to all heavy goods vehicles of categories N2 and N3 above 3,5 tonnes in view of the competitive principle of the transport market. So this is the tax that our carriers pay in Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, everywhere in Europe when they drive south. This resource, which is being collected, is going to improve the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U11	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U12	Thank you. In fact, I did not want you to repeat everything you know or what I know, but I wanted you to specify how this charge will affect domestic transport. How do you feel about the burden on domestic and transit carriers? Are you sure that this law is balanced and that you are not overtaxing the local carrier, but making the transit carrier pay the fair share? How precise do you think these calculations are? Do you also agree with the carriers in this sense that the rates are appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U13	Dear Jürgen Ligi! It was a little bit of what I know. Out of respect for the guests of the Riigikogu who will soon come to the chair, I tried to answer briefly. But I do know that the incumbent government canceled the planned increase in diesel excise duty next year. As a result, EUR 38 million will not be collected. Most N2 and N3 vehicles use those that are and are fueled in Estonia. Thus, EUR 38 million will not be collected in the state budget. The planned road user charges for heavy goods vehicles generate 17 million euros a year, about 80% of which comes from Estonian trucks and 20% from Estonian road users, for which a one-day ticket is mostly purchased, the cost of which is allowed in the European Union at the maximum rate, but this also depends on which exhaust gas class is on our heavy goods vehicle using roads. If a newer and less polluting machine is involved, the ticket of the day is cheaper than a more polluting and older machine, the ticket of the day is more expensive. There's also a weekly ticket, a cube ticket, a block ticket and an annual ticket. You will see that the money that will not be collected due to the withdrawal of the increase in diesel excise duties planned by the previous government will certainly not come back from the road charge for heavy goods vehicles, and it has not been planned. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Now the question of how this will affect our carriers. This affects our carriers in the same way that Latvian carriers are affected by the road user charges for heavy goods vehicles and Lithuanian carriers are affected by the road user charges in Lithuania. This is familiar to the carriers. What aren't we doing? Unlike Lithuania, we do not tax passenger transport, for example. In Lithuania, road user charges have also been imposed on buses with more than eight passengers. We only impose road user charges on N2 and N3 vehicles; this will not apply, for example, to M1 vehicles. Jüri Jaanson asked on Thursday what would happen to the trucks. They belong to the M1 class, they're not subject to tax. Now I am talking about competitiveness. We asked that, if there is already a heavy goods tax and there is an additional road charge for heavy goods vehicles, could one of them not be abandoned? The clear answer is that heavy goods tax is universal in Europe, it must be in each country and it is set at a minimum rate in Estonia. So I believe it has been solved in the best possible way. Now there is also a new solution to the fact that our heavy-duty vehicles registered in other countries are still using you to pay their fees and not to think that there is just a chance of luck here. Therefore, for the first time, the draft states the right to suspend until the fee is paid. We assume that for cargo companies, it's even more enthusiasm than a fine would be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U14	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask two questions orally. However, as you know, Madam Minister, at the end of the negotiations you will be able to make a concluding statement. During the debate on this item, Erki Savisaar, Member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this issue on 17 April. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, invited to the meeting of the Commission, and Lauri Künnapuu, Head of Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry, presented the content of the draft and answered the questions to be specified. The draft law establishes road user charges for trucks for the use of public roads. The vehicles of the Defence Forces, the Defence League, the foreign armed forces, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, as well as the old vehicles within the meaning of § 83 of the Traffic Act, are exempt from the road user fee. On 20 May last year, a working group was set up with a ministerial decree, which developed an analysis of how the payment, administration and supervision of road user charges for trucks could be technically resolved in Estonia. The framework for road charging for trucks is laid down in a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which will be transposed as necessary by this law. Road user charges for trucks shall be levied on trucks with a maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes and their trailers for the use of public roads. The European Commissioner for Transport did not satisfy Estonia's request to levy a fee only for machines with a mass of more than 12 tonnes. There was also a demand from stakeholders, transporters' organisations, for a total of 3.5 tonnes. The rate of charge will depend on the maximum mass of the truck and its trailer, the number of axles, the exhaust gas class and the time period of road use. The fee shall be payable by the owner of the truck or its responsible user. The fee must also be paid for a foreign vehicle. In the event of non-payment of the fee, the bill also provides for the possibility of removing the driver from the steering wheel when travelling on Estonian roads. During the debate, questions were quite similar to those raised in this Chamber on Thursday and today. For example, Aivar Kokk was interested that in some countries domestic companies would get their money back because they would pay excise duties on fuel anyway. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs replied that some countries have schemes in place to refund their carriers. In Germany, for example, road user charges will be applied to passenger cars and reimbursements will be sought when road user charges are paid from other taxes. However, as far as the Ministry of Economic Affairs is aware, such a reimbursement scheme cannot be implemented in accordance with the Directive. Aivar Kokk also asked for an overview of the payment options to be set up at the border crossing points. According to a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, payment at the border with Russia is likely to take place at the customs office. Developments and applications are developed in cooperation between the Road Administration and the Tax Administration. At the southern border of Estonia it is planned to install ticket stalls at the larger border crossing points, as well as to find solutions for organising ticket sales at smaller border crossings. Payment options are created by the Road Administration. An online environment is created for ticket sales, and there is also the possibility to pay at filling stations, ports, ships, etc. I was wondering what the driver's elimination procedure would look like if a vehicle coming from a foreign country had not paid the road user fee. The representative of the Ministry explained that if the fee had not been paid, it would be possible to remove both the driver and, where appropriate, the substitute driver from the wheel, as the truck driver would be obliged to check whether the charge had been paid for the truck. The Ministry has negotiated with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police and Border Guard Board about the procedure for the interruption of the journey in the event of non-payment of the fee. An additional basis for removing the driver from the steering wheel is added to the Traffic Act. If the road user fee is not paid, the seizure of the vehicle shall not be applied. The price of the daily ticket for the road user fee is EUR 10 to 12, so the question of proportionality is whether it is reasonable to seize a car for 10 euros if, for example, it carries perishable goods quickly. Toomas Kivimägi wondered if any country had been able to apply tonnage differences. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs replied that the Directive provides for a fee to be set at 3.5 tonnes, a distinction being allowed from 12 tonnes if the conditions laid down in the Directive are met: firstly, the administrative burden must not increase disproportionately, the second criterion being traffic diversion. Estonia's arguments for differentiation were not supported by the European Commission. At first, Estonia's aim was to impose a fee of 12 tonnes, but as a result of the decision of the European Commission and the interview with the interest groups, it remained with the introduction of a fee of 3.5 tonnes. It was also a question of the fact that the right to collect a toll is intended to be granted to legal persons governed by private law, i.e. additional costs. He wondered why the state could not administer the tax collection itself. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications explained that the main place for collecting the fee is the online environment and will be dealt with by the Road Administration. The aim is to create the possibility of paying in cash, by means of a tripartite agreement with the service provider between the Public Road Administration and the Tax Administration. More practical solutions are still being sought and final schemes have not yet been developed. Aivar Kokk asked if the Estonian Road Administration would be able to reply to the final solution for the organisation of ticketing before the third reading of the draft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs had a definite answer, yes. We're looking forward to it! Deniss Borodich asked me to tell you how much administration costs are per year. The representative of the Ministry explained that current costs cannot be estimated at present. The revenue forecast is EUR 17 million per year. According to the survey, the circa accounts for 80% of the income from Estonian carriers and the rest comes from foreign carriers. Raivo Põldaru wondered if the daily workload of police officers would increase. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications replied that the intention was to create a joint IT development between the Road Administration and the police, then the policeman can see from his onboard computer whether the subject has been paid. No separate patrols are set up for monitoring purposes, and checks on the payment of fees are carried out under normal controls, so there is no significant increase in workload. At the end of the debate, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of 4 April (the decision was consensual), the second was to propose that the first reading be closed (the decision was consensual), and the third was to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U16	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you because every member of the Riigikogu can ask two oral questions. But I am happy to open negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U17	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group does not dispute the principle of road user charges. This is above all because we certainly believe that those who use more and, in this case, also spend more could be more involved in covering these costs. Clearly, it is understandable that heavy goods vehicles spend more on roads than small passenger cars, so that it is reasonable to collect road user charges on heavy goods vehicles in addition to excise duties on fuel. Another reason why we support it is that, indeed, only two Member States of the European Union today do not have a road user fee. These are Estonia and Finland. Thirdly, it is very logical to conclude that it is completely unfair to our carriers, but actually also to the Estonian state that if our truck drivers or truck owners travel abroad, they will have to pay the road user fee, but if heavy goods vehicles registered abroad come on Estonian roads, they will not have to pay this fee. We therefore fully support this principle as such. At the same time, we are clearly opposed to the application of road user charges to trucks with a maximum mass of 3,5 to 12 tonnes. This is above all because it is an additional burden on small businesses, but in fact on consumers. In the face of an increase in the overall tax burden, we certainly cannot support this. The Minister argued that there would be no additional burden of EUR 38 million next year due to the abolition of the increase in excise duty on diesel, but this does not mean a reduction in costs. It is not because of this that the price of fuel will not decrease, as a result, yes, probably the price of fuel will not increase to the extent that it was intended to increase the excise duty, but in fact the cost of a small enterprise, be it a craftsman, will not be reduced. However, its costs will increase as a result of the same road user fee that a small handiworker has to pay in order to drive his van to the fairs. The second reason why we certainly do not support it is that, according to this draft, 80% of the road user charges are estimated to come from vehicles registered in Estonia and only 20% from vehicles registered abroad. I dare say that I do not have any statistics, but I am absolutely certain that among cars with a maximum mass exceeding 12 tonnes, the proportion of vehicles registered abroad is higher than the proportion of vehicles registered in Estonia, because it is clearly not very reasonable to have a very long run-out from Central Europe to Tallinn or Helsinki with one small van. Thus, if this fee were to be applied only to vehicles with a maximum weight of more than 12 tonnes, the burden on Estonian companies would be relatively lower compared to what was proposed in the draft, which is estimated to mean that 80% of Estonian companies and 20% of transit cars are given. It is important that I make a small clarification on the presentation by Erki Savisaar that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure had at first the idea of applying it only to trucks with a maximum mass of more than 12 tonnes. But they did not address the European Commission in the form of a formal request, but they addressed the European Union Commissioner for Transport, and the Commissioner for Transport gave the opinion that such an exception could be problematic. However, such exceptions exist. Denmark and Sweden have benefited from this derogation. Erki Savisaar also actually suggested that such an exception would in principle be possible under the Directive. I don't think we're worse applicants than the Danes and the Swedes. If we really wanted this, we would certainly, or very likely, have this exception. But I daresay why this road has not been taken. I think that the formal procedure will take much longer, which is why it would certainly not have been possible to apply this tax from 1 January 2018, but budget holes want to be patched up. In my opinion, however, this technical justification cannot be an argument as to why, in essence, the necessary derogation should not be sought. I'm asking for more time, if possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U18	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U19	The second argument I want to mention is that this draft has been prepared in haste. Obviously, I repeat, the aim has been to patch up budget holes. Consequently, I also consider that there is a lack of monitoring of the payment of the road user charge. In fact, it would be very logical for the Committee on Economic Affairs to talk about this, and the Minister also supported it so that today, in the 21st century, the payment of this fee could be controlled "automatically." However, it is certainly not possible to implement it so quickly. Even in the coming years, it will not be possible to implement it, which means that the monitoring of the payment of the road user fee will be left to the individual police patrol. Yes, perhaps no additional patrols are planned for this, but I would argue that if the police also supervise the payment of the road user fee and stop trucks for which this fee has not been paid, they will have less time for the main job, i.e. to ensure traffic safety. Consequently, I believe that time should always be taken off and that an official request for an exemption should be made. It would then make sense to proceed with the procedure for this draft and then we will be able to provide answers to the unanswered questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U20	The discussion of the general principles of the draft law 419 will continue as a representative of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U21	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Nor does the Free Party Group support the draft tabled in this way. The previous speaker had a lot of similar or overlapping observations with ours, and I would like to stress a few more things. I was looking at a car dealer's website to figure out what these 3.5-ton machines are. In essence, they are also small vans, with a maximum weight of 3,500 kilograms. In our opinion, this is a hidden car tax that has not been able or wanted to be imposed in another way. It is rather an additional tax imposed on business and does not help to prevent or regulate transit transport, which is a real burden on our roads and a barrier to traffic. There is another problem that we will highlight. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law shows that the budget revenue is set at EUR 17 million. This tax therefore has a minor budgetary impact, but its management may require more resources than it actually generates. It may begin with what the previous speaker said that, first, the Minister could not explain what supervision would look like and, second, no extensive communication was planned or planned. However, this tax, as we understand the Minister's answers, concerns every agricultural and forestry operator, not to mention small shoppers and merchants who are using light-duty vehicles. The faction of the Free Party also believes that the Minister could have stayed at the planned volume of 12 tonnes, we would have supported this solution. Of course, the Minister's reply that this tax cannot be imposed solely on transit vehicles was not convincing either. For example, tax payments take place at border crossing points, including ports, in a number of EU countries. So there's an internship like that. We are of the opinion that we too could introduce a similar system. In our opinion, the reason why 3.5 tonnes have been reached is that certain target groups do not want to pay a higher tariff than the one that would start from, for example, 12 tonnes. Perhaps a certain target group has agreed with the Ministry that their tax burden will be reduced and therefore the tax burden on small traders and businesses will be higher. We do not support this draft, which is presented in this form. Basically, we are ready to talk about road user charges, but not about hidden car taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U22	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U23	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U24	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U25	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that this is a fundamental issue. The new government is the government to introduce new taxes and raise taxes. This contradicts our understanding of the direction in which the Estonian state should proceed. If we are here discussing and arguing where a tonnage limit should run, what technical applications might be, and whether we have to do all this by day, by week or by month, it is, frankly, in my eyes, all nose pecking. The fundamental question is whether or not we are willing to introduce new taxes. There will be a clear answer in principle from our party: we do not agree with this; we do not support the creation and introduction of endless new taxes, just as we do not support the increase in taxes that this government is doing today. The economic arguments have already been transcended here. In their case, it must be stressed once again that this is taking money from the pockets of the Estonian people. This is not taking money from transit, because the part that transit provides of all the expected revenue is too small. Finally, the people of Estonia will have to pay for this. I can't understand why it has to be done. We are told to pay for the use of roads. I come back once again to what we have already said: there is a road tax in Estonia and its name is excise duties on fuel. It is being collected from all people, including the users of trucks and light duty vehicles, in a very large amount. Consequently, in addition to the road tax already in place, another new road tax is now being envisaged. As the previous speaker said, it essentially also implements the desire to introduce a car tax. So we can still see the desire to simply introduce new taxes. We don't support it. As a result, the Conservative People's Party Group proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U26	Einar Vallbaum, please, on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance! The proposal for rejection has already been submitted by the EKRE in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm having a good time here today. I looked at those people who spoke on a subject they don't share anything about. It's very sad. There are a lot of things that are spoken about in the Riigikogu, but not much to be shared about. I remind you, I've been on road transport for 25 years. I have been re-elected president of the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers for the second time; I am also on the council of the Confederation of Employers, where I represent road transport companies. You were talking about small businesses here. No small enterprise has a van of more than 3.5 tonnes, because all 3.5 tonnes of vans have a tachograph on their hands to measure their working time. No small business wants this, because you have to work by the time of day. So don't get behind it, you don't know anything about it! Everyone drives N1 cars that do not have a tachograph on them and can travel through the clock. If you are driving on Estonian roads, look at what our fastest cars are. These are white vans that drive past you, so the eye doesn't look, and that work 24 hours in a row. These are the most dangerous cars on Estonian roads. I have been told for 20 years why you are not introducing this tax that is in other countries. Now that we're introducing it, you're talking about why we're introducing it! Is this some kind of paranoia to the Estonians? One way isn't good and the other way isn't good, it's bad, and then it's bad. Silence is the answer! Please do with the things you know about! Everyone agrees that this tax must be introduced because it exists everywhere in the European Union. You're saying heavy goods vehicles are ruining you. In fact, you're most damaged by those little vans that use nails like us. There's no snow for long, but we're still driving nail tires, or nail tires. What scraps are on the roads caused by small cars with their nail tires! That's our worst problem, not our big cars. With regard to tax collection, large cars are very decent in this matter. There is no electronic payment in Latvia either, but all Estonian drivers pay tax there. Everyone knows it has to be paid because the penalty is half the price. To make such a noise, I think it's overreacting. I wish you every success in dealing with things that you share well. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U28	Erki Savisaar, representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to explain a few myths that got blown up here. First of all, these vans, SUVs and other passenger cars with a registration mass of 3500 kilograms are not subject to taxation. They are in the normal sense category B vehicles, they are not heavy duty vehicles and they are not subject to this road user charge. It shall be imposed on vehicles with a mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, i.e. 3501 kilograms and beyond. Don't panic. All passenger cars will remain passenger cars and no tax will be charged on them. Another important thing. This exemption was requested, although carriers did not want an exemption for 3,5 to 12 tonnes of vehicles. That is what the European Commission was asking. There was no positive response. We were told that it is not too difficult to charge this tax on 3.5 tonnes of vehicles in Estonia. The reason is simple: Estonia is an IT state. Europe has now also understood what this IT means. This means that when taxes are collected online, there will be no additional burden on the country, regardless of where to draw the border. It therefore did not make sense to proceed with the procedure either. For the same reason that Estonia is an IT state, it is likely that this automatic check will also be necessary. We already have enough cameras on the roads and take a step forward and develop automatic control is not at all difficult and will not take decades to complete it much faster. There will also be these sales booths on the border that the Free Party wanted. This ticket can be purchased at the border crossing point, the port, the ship and the gas station, but besides that, on the Internet, and we believe that most of us will use this option in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U30	As there are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party is to reject draft 419 at first reading. This proposal brings with it a hall call. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 419 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 32 parliamentarians voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against, with no abstentions. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was not supported. First reading of Bill 419 is complete. I will set the deadline of 16 May at 5 p.m. for the submission of 419 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U31	Today's second item is the first reading of draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, to the speaker's desk for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to have before you the draft law amending the Law on Sport and Administrative Cooperation, which is included in the desire to simplify and make the financing of sport more transparent and predictable from the state budget. One major step we have taken in cooperation with you, honourable Riigikogu, last year, because this year, most of our state budget will receive further support through the planned support system, which we developed in cooperation with the Estonian Olympic Committee's intervention agencies last year. This means that EUR 1.1 million, which is intended to support sports federations from the state budget, was added this year to EUR 1.5 million. This is the order of magnitude that the Riigikogu usually found for sports federations during the budget readings. It is now subject to public, transparent and sector-negotiated criteria, on the basis of which all sports groups will be able to predict, in the long term, their support for next year on the basis of their performance. In order to proceed with this reform, the draft in your hands provides for the possibility that the Minister of Culture, through an administrative agreement, may authorise support from the state budget for sports federations to be decided by the Olympic Committee. This should provide an opportunity for the subgroups, which largely form the Estonian Olympic Committee, to communicate directly with the Estonian Olympic Committee. In this way, the complexity and contentiousness of the administration should be reduced, as one intermediate phase is not possible. They will also report directly to the Estonian Olympic Committee in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U33	Peter Ernits asks the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U34	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that the main point of this bill is that the Ministry of Culture can get rid of one task. He will no longer have to deal with it, the burden will be reduced, and the Olympic Committee will take over this work. Are there any other plans that could be given to some organisations to reduce the burden on the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U35	Thank you. To some extent, this may indeed also affect the burden on the Ministry, but above all the general administrative burden. For the sake of clarity of the system, the next stage we are waiting for is a proposal that has been discussed for some time and that the Minister of Finance should come to the government after a while. It provides that, where possible, the funds of the Gambling Tax Board could be allocated to the Estonian Olympic Committee, as well as to the vast majority of them. This would provide an opportunity to reduce the burden of cultural capital on the funding of sports federations' projects and to play a greater role in supporting mobility events. In fact, this would mean that there is one less place for sub-nationals and sports event organisers to apply, but at least there is just as much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U36	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have already touched on the financing of gambling tax and cultural capital. Can you specify how far the Ministry of Culture has come precisely when it comes to financing sport through grants made available through cultural capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U38	Thank you. It is not possible to take any other step towards the Gambling Tax Council and the Cultural Capital Foundation for Sport until the government has proposed what will become of the Gambling Tax Council at all. We've made preparations. We have offered, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, a multi-stage reform of the financing of sport, with one small nuance on the table today as a draft law before you. We think that the next step could be to transfer the funds of the Gambling Council described above to the Estonian Olympic Committee and thus give the Cultural Capital Foundation the opportunity to contribute more to the area to which the Gambling Tax Council has contributed so far. Just paperwork would be reduced twice in terms of both application and reporting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U39	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U40	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said clearly and nicely that this 1.5 million will compensate for the part that was previously allocated by the Riigikogu at the end of the year. But in the past, the funds were also allocated by public companies, which is now complete. Is there any way that this money will be offset from the state budget in the future? In the end, is it hoped that there will be more money for Estonian sport than for more transparency and fun?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U41	Yes, due to the coalition negotiations at the end of last year, an additional half million euro has been planned for 2018 to compensate precisely for the amount that has been allocated to sport by public undertakings or public undertakings through their support decisions. This amount has been very different from one year to the next. In fact, the average of recent years has been significantly below half a million. But we know it was bigger in the past few years. In recent years, there has been a huge question mark on what public enterprises and public undertakings should and should not do in their supporting and sponsoring activities. This, of course, has caused some confusion for a while. At the same time, it is certain that those public undertakings and public undertakings which will in the future continue to be reasonable in terms of marketing activities, in terms of promoting their services and products, have a contractual relationship with one or another sports event organiser. I very much hope that these relations will continue, that there will continue to be a mutually beneficial relationship between the state company that needs to advertise its products or services and the organiser of the sporting event.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U42	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U43	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, 100 of these 200 grants will be transferred to the Olympic Committee and the Ministry's workload will be reduced. But the money still has to be paid, EUR 7763 will be transferred, but 100 applications will still remain with the Ministry. Are they going to be solved by the Ministry, or are they going to be directed to someone, plus the remaining 7763 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U44	As of now, there are no other plans for subdelegation. We are now working to ensure that they are moved and that the institution that takes over this responsibility is the Estonian Olympic Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U45	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Toomas Väinaste, Member of the Committee on Culture, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U46	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, I speak on Monday 17 April 2017 on the basis of the minutes of the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. The meeting was chaired by Aadu Must, the chairman of the committee, the members of the committee were Laine Randjärv, Heljo Pikhof, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste and Viktoria Ladynskaja. Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, was invited. There was a debate on the draft amendment of the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act 423. Indrek Saar explained that the purpose of the draft is to create flexibility in the financing of sport and to provide for the possibility that future decisions to support sports federations will be taken by the National Olympic Committee. In developing the draft, consideration was also given to maintaining the existing situation, i.e. to ensuring that the task of allocating grants is carried out only at ministerial level. However, it came to the conclusion that if the Estonian Olympic Committee was involved in the task, it would provide an opportunity to focus more on the design of sport policy at ministerial level, reduce the workload of the Ministry in making individual decisions and create more substantive competences. The members of the Commission did not ask any specific questions. It was decided by consensus, first of all, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda for the plenary session on 9 May. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 23 May 2017 for the submission of amendments and to appoint Mr Väinaste as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U47	Thank you, too. No questions to be specified shall be put to the rapporteur. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U48	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! You don't talk about sports too often about this remote control, you could talk about it more often. I therefore take this opportunity to present briefly some of the views of the Free Party. There have been, to a large extent, two problems with Estonian sport or its financing. First of all, there is just little money, Estonian sport has been underfunded for years or decades. Secondly, Estonian sport has been over-politicised, politics and relations between sport have been unpleasantly close. This bill is undoubtedly a good step forward. As such, the Free Party Group certainly welcomes this and supports the adoption of this law, but from here we should move forward and could move forward. As the Minister of Culture's replies showed, it currently replaces EUR 1 and a half million in the contribution made by the public community to the past through regional investments and the half million agreed in the coalition replaces those received from state companies. In summing up, it has to be said that the money allocated to sport does not increase too much, should increase and could increase at a much faster pace. It is very welcome that so-called 'roof money' or'regional investment money' has now gone into the hands of more competent distributors, which I doubt I consider to be the executive committees of the Olympic Committee and also the technical staff of the Olympic Committee. However, I admit that I have a little premonition and an evil problem. Will it be when, at the end of the year, the regional investments, which are called roofing money in the jargon, come back to us here, honourable politicians, we can still keep our fingers off the financing of sport? Or can the desire to pose with some rowing boats or otherwise be seen as a noble benefactor against sportsmen who supports a particular sport? I have a proposition. Let's play fair and leave regional investments to really regional investments, let's not change them to covert support for sports federations. But the amount allocated from the state budget next year to sport should undoubtedly be increased and increased. We recall the debate of the Presidential candidates of the Olympic Committee. There were various proposals for additional money for sport. In this sense, they have found support for the proposal by Urmas Sõrumaa, elected President, to increase excise duties on alcohol and tobacco and to channel the money from this rise into sport. The act's gone up. Does it add anything to the sport? Toomas Tõniste proposed that the Income Tax Act abolish the exemption from interest payments on mortgage loans. This proposal was also accepted by the Coalition. But did there be any extra money for sports? So with all the money from these small and insidious tax increases, Estonian sport could really receive more support from the state budget for the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U49	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 423. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 423 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U50	Honourable Riigikogu! Our third item on the agenda is the debate on the key state issue 'Estonian economic policy choices benets and opportunities for entrepreneurship' proposed by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. First of all, let me introduce the procedure for the discussion that follows from § 53 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. First, Hanno Pevkur, President of the Estonian Reform Party, will perform for up to 10 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 20 minutes. Then there will be up to 15 minutes of MOVE Guides Vice President Sten Tamkivi. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 30 minutes. The third is Ruth Oltjer, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who will speak for up to 15 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask two questions in total and there are three rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, we will open a round of negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party has made another proposal, namely to extend today's session if necessary, but we will come to this proposal a little later. I ask Hanno Pevkur, Chairman of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It's 2046. You don't have a car, or you don't have much at all, you'll pay the fee if you need anything. Virtual reality is everyday and you are constantly communicating with all kinds of devices. Most surfaces have turned into screens, and every screen will look back at you. Every step of yours is being watched by an app. The advertisers will pay you to watch their ads. Robots and artificial intelligence have taken over your work, but they've also created a new one for you that you didn't even dream about in 2016. This is the introduction of Kevin Kelly's book The Inevitable. I brought out the introduction to this excellent book here for a simple reason: life around us is changing very quickly, and what we find new and exciting today is already behind us by the developers and inventors. As a society, and above all, everyone must realise that success depends on their willingness to go along with change. After all, we all know how Nokia lost her market advantage, believing for too long that the success of a traditional mobile phone would continue. It didn't. The phone with the keys is still there, but most use smart devices, which, apart from providing telephone services, are a daily assistant and computer in your pocket. Only those who are innovative and fast in their choices, including both economic policy and legal policy choices, will succeed in increasingly and faster globalised national competition. If you fall asleep, it may be hopelessly late when you wake up. I recall that the Riigikogu has been discussing the regulation of the collaborative economy for over a year. However, life itself has long done this and this process cannot be stopped. If the country is not flexible enough, people will find their way to solve the demand-supply, regardless of whether it is regulated by the state or not. This has happened to Uber and Airbnb and to many other solutions offering services. Perhaps the message is simple: development and innovation are not put back in the bottle. Of course, there is no rational argument for combating development. As Kevin Kelly writes in his book, it's not a race against robots, it's a race with them. We can be sure that 200 years ago, none of the farmers in the United States (by the way 70% of Americans worked on farms) predicted that only 1% of their jobs would be left 200 years later. In this way, we can be quite sure that in the next 50 years, a very large part of our jobs will be lost because the emerging technology and robots will do their job. However, there is no need to fear the loss of work. Although the current jobs we know will disappear, the job will not be lost, it will change. Let us consider trade. Ten years ago, most of us didn't think that the grocery store was going out in a way that didn't even meet the seller, we'd be scanning our own goods, we'd be paying directly at the terminal, and the seller or cashier is missing in this process, but that's what's gone and that's what's going on. Or agriculture already mentioned. While 50 years ago there was a milking agent for about 50 cows, today the same job is done by a robot and the need for people has been reduced several times. Progress is significant and inevitable. Independent cars are already present, and the carriage of goods without a driver is no longer a utopia, let alone a postal transport without mailmen, one of the most serious developers of which is the Viljandi company Cleveron, whose owners were elected entrepreneurs this year. Why am I telling you all this? It is because we in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu also understand the change in our role, that legislation cannot and must not prevent the development of the economy and entrepreneurship. I dare make one prediction and say that in the future, those countries that dare to substantially reduce their business laws will be increasingly successful. Let the market be free, not overregulated. Several times more effective than the national regulator is the people themselves. For example, when looking for a hotel, the stars given as official recognition are not so important as other people's assessments of the hotel from TripAdvisor.com, or Uber and Airbnb, already mentioned, where the service provider's quality mark is user feedback rather than plafone on the roof or city hall license. Looking back in history, we realise that it is the unrestricted economy that has been the fastest developed and brought about the well-being of society. It is up to us whether we are acting like the British Queen Elizabeth I, who, at the end of the 16th century, refused to grant William Lee a patent for the production of a knitting machine, on the pretext that, otherwise, thousands of weavers will lose their jobs in the kingdom, or we will cut red tape and national regulation and let entrepreneurship develop more freely, as if the world knew Estonia as a digital tiger. I am convinced that with the legislation governing entrepreneurship, and why not more broadly with the number of laws and a substantial reduction in bureaucracy, the Estonian legal area would not become any worse, rather the opposite. Greater freedom will give greater impetus to development. 50% less legislation and bureaucracy! Yeah, it's a bold, maybe even a bold, brave goal, but I'm saying it's inevitable for success and strength. Ladies and gentlemen, We can do our children a favor instead of regulating the functioning of the Estonian state. Do we trust entrepreneurs, or do we want an official, or even several, who controls every entrepreneur? Let us give an example of what we experienced at the piano factory in Estonia. Of course, there must be elementary fire safety requirements and these must be respected, but given the uniqueness of the equipment and materials used in the piano factory, we can be 100% sure that the Song family itself is several times more motivated to ensure fire safety in the factory than there are inspectors who go there over the years. It is also up to us in this Chamber whether we are raising existing taxes and introducing new taxes that are obviously detrimental to the development of entrepreneurship, or whether we are taking the principle that the minimum the tax burden of entrepreneurship is, the greater the development, and thus the benefits to the economy and society as a whole. Nobody claims that the state does not need tax revenue for protection, security, health care or education. Of course he does. But looking now at the proposals for tax increases and new taxes coming from the government table to the Riigikogu, one can understand those who are concerned about Estonia's future. No government can and cannot think that there will be a flood or a coming after them. The current government thinks so. How else can we understand the desire to eat up previously collected reserves that have been saved for years of crisis or to take out the loan that we need to take at a time when European Union subsidies are starting to decrease? It is the shrinking of euro subsidies that is the clearest sign that we have been through an impressive development as a society and country, that we have become wealthier than ever before. Our goal is not to survive the grant. On the contrary, our desire is to live better than before. Therefore, choices must also be made on the basis of the objective of becoming ever stronger in terms of economic and social wealth. This is where the country's economic policy choices come into play. Does Estonia have a strong and balanced budget or is Estonia run by a government that spends and lets our children pay for today's expenses? Is there a business environment in Estonia where there is little bureaucracy and where, for example, the legal space is half as small as today? Do we have a country where foreign investors want to come and where the tax system is uniform, transparent and simple, not with thousands or thousands of exceptions, where foreigners can put their children in top-class international schools and where foreign workers are expected, their number is not limited to a quota, where innovative solutions can be tested without national bureaucracy, and where e-residency and other new e-solutions are as attractive as e-government or e-Tax Board at the time of their creation? I'm a long way from thinking that we can discuss all the important choices in a few hours, but we can show the direction. We can send a message that not all are lost yet, that there is a willingness and willingness to end or, if necessary, to lift the tax changes currently being planned and damaging to entrepreneurship, and to make economic policy choices that will take us forward and not back. Ladies and gentlemen, I want us to have a smart debate, a good hearing and, most importantly, a look at the future, because that is the only way we will be stronger as a society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U52	The debate begins with a round of questions. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The tax burden on companies as a proportion of GDP is reduced by around 0.6% due to planned changes, which is a good deal. During the last ten years, economic growth in Estonia has been slower than in Europe on average. So, for the last ten years, we have actually been lagging behind Europe, and the purchasing power of our people has decreased. Throughout this period, the leading government department was the Reform Party. Why do you think there has been such a reversal in Estonia over the last ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U54	Thank you. If you look at the last ten-year cycle, you will also see for yourself that there was a rather serious recession in the world and in Europe. If you take the ten-year average, you could really point out some kind of numbers like that. I'll give you another comparison. Let us see what is essentially the role of the state in the economy. The concept of the current government is that the state regulates everything. Our understanding is that the state does not have to regulate everything, but must enable the free development of entrepreneurship. There's a fundamental difference. You gave an example of a 10-year period, I'm going back in time a hundred years. A hundred years ago, the future President of the United States, Hoover, was the Minister of the Economy. He suggested that we take on a lot of loans and boost the economy with the support of state capitalism. The first year was quite nice, but the then leaders did not think it was right and did it right, because if Hoover and after him Roosevelt were in government and took a very large loan, then the result was great depression. So, in this sense, borrowing and spending even on reserves in the short term may indeed produce some kind of result; in the longer term, intervention in the country's economy is, in any case, less effective. If you want to be more detailed, please take the opinion of Nordea Bank analysts, published at the end of last year, on the same subject as regards whether and how to invest and what impact this will have, whether and how the state can make excessive expenditure and what its impact on the economy will be in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U55	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm going to go to 2015 with my question when the Reform Party was still in the government. On the basis of several studies in 2015 the economic experts of the Chamber of Thought in Praxis and Tallinn University of Technology claimed that the Estonian economy had reached stagnation under the leadership of the Government of the Reform Party. There were no ideas, there was no economic potential, and allowed the economy to simply lose its grip on this was one estimate. Secondly, I look at the assessment of the median salary. 2015 came up with another set of indicators for the median wage. People's income should also reflect the vitality of the economy. For example, in 2015, the median wage in the county of Võru was EUR 650. How do you comment on the claims of these economic experts that the Reform Party failed to manage Estonia's economic policy? Secondly, if you are saying here that you can successfully develop the economy, why is the median wage still so low?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U57	Thank you. I'm not gonna comment on the median salary. If you take a longer period, you will see that both the average salary and the median wage have gone through a pretty good increase, not only when you look across Estonia, but also separately in South Estonia. You know that very well yourself. Now I come to what concerns finance and the economy. Yes, we had faith and the knowledge that we would keep public finances in order. We did not go into the budget deficit as planned by the current government, we kept reserves for the years of the crisis. That's what we had. I'll take a look at your prognosis. You plan that by 2021 government reserves will fall into the order of 6%, of which the central government reserves will remain at 2%, the rest will be the reserves of the social security funds. You will burn the money that earlier governments have been saving by the time the Estonian state is really hard. At the moment, it is not so difficult for the Estonian state to burn reserves and to borrow more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U58	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Of course, these reserves are not as large as you may have wanted to say to your listeners in your speech. But I will also turn to March 2015 when the Estonian central bank started buying European bonds. To date, the volume of bond purchases is reaching EUR 4 billion. How, in general, does such purchase of bonds from other countries stimulate the Estonian economy, and what economic sectors will this help to stimulate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U60	Thank you. I am very pleased that you have done some preliminary work before today's debate and have looked at history. The central bank's decisions at that time, of course, relate to the central bank being part of the European System of Central Banks. I would not focus on the state's intervention. On the contrary, in today's debate, I would focus on the future. You're talking about the central bank buying bonds. Nice. But let's look to the future. I understand the wish of the Centre Party is to live in the past, but let's talk about the future. Let's talk about Estonia's choices for the future. Read today's Postman and Eesti Päevaleht, you will get very good ideas about where the economy really needs to move, how much freedom we need to give, how much we have to deal with, that we have a free business environment and that we do not regulate the country. These are exactly the thoughts I made in my opening statement today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U61	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Pevkur! The talk of not over-regulation and the need to cut red tape sounds very sympathetic. During the governance of the Reform Party, there was also a sympathetic initiative such as the zero bureaucracy project. I don't remember how long we've been talking about losing our logbooks. However, much of this was still unfulfilled. It's the biggest trouble I think it is. How do you assess this balance of success and failure from the point of view of overregulation and cutting red tape yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U63	Thank you. I appreciate the fact that I could have handled zero bureaucracy faster. I am very pleased that the zero bureaucracy project was launched under the leadership of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and hopefully the current minister will carry it forward. My colleague, Kristen Michal, could certainly talk long about zero bureaucracy and give me more information. But the fact that the zero bureaucracy project was launched is only right. Could you have done it faster? Of course you could, you can always do it faster. But it is almost impossible to start putting this 'balance sheet' in percentage. My message is that in the future countries will be more successful if they intervene significantly less in the economy and reduce the bureaucracy and tax burden on businesses. The principle is that if business is doing well, the Estonian person will do well, because he will have a job. Public money does not come from the wall or the state budget, as some tend to say. Public money comes from the taxpayer and comes from the taxpayer when business is doing well and there are jobs. That is the principle: less bureaucracy and less regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U64	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U65	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! We all know in this Chamber that we have so far had much more money from the European Structural Funds than we will probably have in the future. We just don't know how much this money's gonna go down. But at the will of many governments, this money is still placed in concrete rather than innovation. Last week, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson also referred to Estonia's relative decline in innovation. The Reform Party has participated in these governments; you yourself have participated in these governments as a minister. What do you say in retrospect, why has it gone so far, why has innovation been less invested than concrete?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U66	Thank you. The contribution of innovation has actually increased over time. Let us look at the last funding period of the European Union. I am very pleased that not only because the European Union recommended this, but that the decision of our own governments was also that the main focus of using the European Union's money was on creating new jobs and precisely to develop opportunities for both innovation and job creation. Compare, for example, the two funding periods of the European Union, the period until 2009 and the current period. You will see that there has been a significant shift and a change: investments in concrete have been replaced by investments in people. I remember when you went into a new period of funding disputes, why you can't put money in concrete. A lot of people wanted to put money in concrete. But the principle was very good that the European Union also provided such a guideline that more should be invested in job creation and people. I believe that if European Union funding is to fall, it will have to be more targeted and more money must be put into innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U67	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I have to say that the beginning of your speech was very sympathetic, but in the end you got to where you usually are: everyone is bad and does everything wrong, except for you, or the Reform Party. I will make one small comment on digital matters. The digital image of the Estonian state is certainly good, but there is also the opinion that our tiger has long fallen asleep or is asleep. But I have two questions. First of all, you mentioned progressive income tax. I ask why our entrepreneurs and contractors are then so stupid that they go to those countries where both things are introduced, both in progressive income tax, even in classical form, and in corporate income tax. I have another question. You said less about it today, but you've talked a lot about us heating up the economy. Europe's economic growth is between 1.6 and 1.8%, ours is in the same hole and, in fact, we all say that growth is small, and we are concerned about it. I'm worried too. When, then, is the time to revive the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U69	Thank you. I'll come to the digital tiger first. Yeah, I agree with you that the digital tiger has fallen asleep. Let us look at Azerbaijan, where the same Estonian entrepreneurs do a great deal to build e-solutions. That is the same message that I have already said from this remote: we must not fall asleep, because when we wake up, it will be too late. As far as economic recovery is concerned, the economic recovery of the country's leadership is still of very dubious value. The state can create a legal environment and a business environment and provide a 'frame'. These frameworks mean, above all, a lack of bureaucracy and a legal space for the development of entrepreneurship. In this sense, it makes sense to make targeted investments. It is not worth ignoring the work of previous governments, nor is it the work of the current government or the future government to do so. Yes, investment is necessary, but what is important is where it is invested and what is the result of the investment. The state must not expand as a result of these, but this money must be directed towards the development of entrepreneurship, innovation and R &amp; D. Then it is hoped that the economy will grow significantly faster. These are the activities that need to be highlighted. As regards what I said in my speech, this speech gave a direction and, rather, raised the question for the debate which country we want, whether we want a country whose activity is aimed at state capitalism and such a fat country, or where there is more priced creative free thinking and the country is not over-regulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U70	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U71	Good manager! Good waitress! You had an interesting idea that we should halve the number of legislation. I do not remember how much, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the number of laws that have come to the Riigikogu has been reduced. But I was talking to an entrepreneur who was still in your party recently. He asked why rural entrepreneurs could not access funding, why it had become so difficult, and why municipal apartments were not built during the governance of the Reform Party, even though entrepreneurs needed labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U72	Thank you. Once again, it's always good to go through the past and look at what's in the rearview mirror. The rear-view mirror won't take us any further. Look at the focus and the point of this debate today. The two experts who are already anxious to come to this remote control, both Sten Tamkivi and Ruth Oltjer, have a focus on what lies ahead of us, they are not talking about what was. It is possible to find what could have been different from any activity, including the activities of the former government of the Centre Party. These were the decisions made in their own time and then conditions, they could be criticised, but that doesn't take us any further. The decisions that we will make today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the years after will take place in this Chamber. This is the focus of this debate that we need to focus on today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U73	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U74	Good President! Good waitress! It was very nice to hear you praise and frame gold for your favorable creative thinking. As a long-term headmaster, I know very well how well you favoured creative thinking and an innovative approach to the education system. I'm sure all of them as the crown jewel have returned to state supervision or something, so you've been compromised. So you can't say that you'd have been a hard supporter of creative thinking. But my question is about speech-sharing. According to Telia's latest news, the cheap packages will be expensive and expensive packages will be cheaper, so it will cost the simple user more, the business shark, who has the resources and who doesn't care how much this package costs, it will be cheaper. Who do you work for, for the benefit of the people or for the benefit of the minority who has the means?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U75	I'm sorry, that question got really messed up. What kind of speech do you mean? What was the focus of the question? I had a hard time understanding. I'm trying to figure it out. Do you mean pan-European roaming? Europe-wide prices have fallen dramatically. Look at the roaming charges three years ago and what they are today! Europe-wide roaming charges have been significantly reduced for data, voice services as well as messaging services.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U76	Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Let's talk about the future. The rhetoric that we will keep the country's economy in order, but will live at the expense of future generations if loans are taken to make investments, I think, is more of a thing of the past. But my question is whether it is not living on the account of future generations when they receive the untapped opportunities for inheritance and the unmade investments that could have been made at the time when the money was the cheapest and most accessible ever.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U78	Thank you. As I said in answering one earlier question, the investment is not bad. I am completely sincere in thinking that taking out a loan is not the devil either. Of course not. The question is what it is taken for and where this money is put. If, in my opinion, stupid investments are made, for example, city hall is a stupid investment, then that is wrong. If a smart investment is made that stimulates innovation and research, it makes sense. Of course, any budgetary trick that raises money from one budget line to another and says that we only take credit for investments, but earlier investment money is spent to cover fixed costs is very bad for public finances. Basically, I'm not saying investment or loan, they're okay. The question is where and why to invest this money. I'm trying to be close in my answers, because I know that Sten Tamkivi needs to get on a plane pretty soon. So if you want to ask him, I suggest you keep your questions for the future. But I'm always ready to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U79	This round of questions is 20 minutes long, and this round will soon end. But I'm sure Tanel Winter can still ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Reform Party! You said you shouldn't go too far in the past, but I think it is important to know why you should believe that something has changed in your party's actions now. I am sincerely pleased to hear that you are now talking about progress and the need to be a pioneer in a changing world, not a jogger behind others. However, I want to know why, during the last Riigikogu election campaign, I was more or less the only one with Ott Pärna to repeat, for example, the need for a strong state reform. Why did the Reform Party then, as always, campaign against nationalities and the division of our society, instead of stressing what you told God right about this speaker today? For example, why was the Riigikogu not set up with the Finnish Sitra on the basis of the future commission during the governments of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U81	Thank you. I am not commenting on the Committee on the Future because I was not in Parliament at the time. But I have to say, as a word, I don't like'state reform'. We have one Estonian state and there is no need to reform the country. We do, yes, need to reform the services provided by the state. Minister of State Administration Arto Aas opened up, starting with both the administrative reform and the tightening of the state institutions. The public sector fell by more than a thousand people a year; this direction was also taken for the years to come. I do not know what the current government's direction is, whether 1000 or 2 000 employees will continue to reduce the public sector, but I do know that when we began to so-called thinner the country in recent years, it worked quite well and these steps were planned for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U82	Thank you too, dear waitress. The prescribed length of the round of questions and answers has already been exceeded. I invite the vice president of MOVE Guides, Sten Tamkivi, to present the next presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U83	Honourable Riigikogu! It seems that today's topic is that we are trying to talk about the future, but we are still talking about the past. I'll start there too. My name is Sten, and I'm building companies. I founded my first company in Tartu when I was 18. It has been an honour for me to participate in the educulosis called Skype and, speaking of my recent activities, I can say that I have sold my three-year-built company Teleport to a company such as MOVE Guides, whom I now represent, and I now work in San Francisco, London and Hong Kong, along with those Estonian colleagues with whom I did it. Why am I saying this? It's an increasingly common story. All the business I've built combines people and technology. In the simplest sense, it is my job to bring together the smartest people I can find, and to create with them the software that anyone in the world needs, and then sell it outside Estonia. This activity is commonly referred to in national strategy documents as "information economy," "high value added services" or "export." But let's call them what we call them, I'm starting to feel like this model is working after 21 years. Moreover, I think that the creation of innovative solutions for a large world with few people, which the technology business allows, is a very good engine for a small Estonian economy. Perhaps you have heard that such companies with great growth ambitions, employing technologies, are called start-ups or, in Estonian, start-ups. These are pre-company teams that are still looking for their business model. Despite the high risk of failure, there are already 400 such small teams in Estonia. Our start-ups, these 400 teams, recently exceeded the news threshold by being able to raise EUR 100 million of investor money in the last year. Most of this money was brought to Estonia. Investors' money is, of course, no return for the company. It is such a trust credit or a signal that people believe in the future of the company, and there is still a lot of work to be done for its future. But the state of Estonia already has the immediate benefit of this advance. 90% of the 100 million invested last year came from foreign investors. Maybe if we are talking about Estonia not having to re-distribute money indefinitely within the state, but bringing it back from the outside, this is what happened. Secondly, the lion's share of this money goes to job creation. About 2500 people are employed by the tax authorities in Estonian start-ups. What is even more interesting is that, according to the tax administration, the average monthly payment of EUR 1100 for each job was made to these companies in the first quarter of this year. I drink down again: this is not the average wage, it is the average labour tax contribution. This is because those technologists whose brain jobs are exported by such companies are far from cheap. If the average salary of the Estonian state is still small compared to the northern neighbours, 1200 euros per month, it is several times higher in the technology sector. A very good programmer's salary level is four, five or six times above that. If the Estonian bus driver can earn two or three times less than a Finnish colleague, then the Estonian programmer looks at a London colleague and smiles, because maybe a London colleague gets 20% more pay, but he pays several times more rent in a large and expensive city. In fact, it is already very good to do these jobs in Estonia. In total, these start-ups with very low turnover and mostly non-existent profits brought 28 million euros of labour taxes into the state budget last year. In essence, they immediately transferred about a third of the investments they involved to the State. This amount increased by 33% over the year and, if you believe in the pace of the beginning of this year, it will increase at the same rate. Think of the growth rates of the Estonian and European economies, which tend to be small and single. We are talking here about a small segment of companies where growth is very rapid. Start-ups are the first phase of the technology business. All these companies are hoping to become real firms. They have not yet, they have not yet established themselves and found them. Unfortunately, very few people come to this. Each Estonian probably knows Skype, TransferWise and Playtech these are the names that we probably repeat the most, but have not heard of dozens and hundreds of less successful companies. But why is it worth pursuing these breakthroughs, and why are these few successful nerds good for Estonia? Professor Enrico Moretti of the University of Berkeley has studied this issue in many parts of the world and has formulated his conclusion as follows: high-tech jobs are the cause of wealth in one region, doctors, lawyers, roofers and yoga teachers, however. Moretti has found that the ratio of technological jobs to other employment is on average 1: 5. In Silicon Valley, where a very large part of the world's technological life takes place, the ratio is 1 to 6.2. This means that any high-paid Facebook or Google programmer indirectly employs more than six people, such as Uber's leader, lawyer, hairdresser, or someone who can make coffee with mild milk foam. The programmer eats in a restaurant, he never cleans or repairs his rental apartment himself, all these jobs are created by him. Figuratively speaking, in order for Estonia to have a good job for all people, covering the wide range of skills and interests of all workers, about 100000 of the 620000 people in the shrinking labour market in Estonia should work in the technology sector. If, apart from the emerging start-ups, our more mature IT and tecom industries are included, we have about 20% of that together, so we're not exactly at zero. As an interesting coincidence, the number of workers in Estonia, according to the European Commission's forecast for 2025, is also 100,000 as a result of the decline in population, ageing and the movement of people. Since I am an entrepreneur and entrepreneurs tend to be half full of glass, I would say that we are totally lucky, because we have the right size hole that can be filled using this Moretti formula. It was not my intention to come here today to the honorable assembly to say what the tactics of state intervention in the economy should be and what the specific tax rate or the law should be to tilt the next 100000 jobs towards technology. It will probably take more than 20 minutes for these stories to be discussed by political groups and committees, ministries and agencies, business associations and start-ups clubs. Looking at the number of invitations that these entrepreneurs share, it seems to me that this communication is very active. Instead, I will use the opportunity to try to sum up these thoughts that have just been shared in this large hall with five sentences as a vision of what kind of entrepreneurship I think it is worth pursuing. I think that the winning formula of the Estonian economy for the next decade is that of exporting companies with a large margin of knowledge, services and technology. 75% of their founders and employees come from Estonia and have received a good education from both Estonian and foreign universities. 25% of the founders and employees of Estonian technology companies are attracted to live in Estonia from other parts of the world through active and open policies. Every job created by such companies will be boosted to five new jobs in the surrounding domestic economy. This leverage effect increases income, improves quality of life and alleviates demographic deficits. I believe this vision is a viable one. In these five sentences, there are the keywords of most policies that you need to do so and none of which you will hear for the first time: the spread of knowledge, the export of the world, the financing of education, open values, the movement of people and high-paid jobs and their taxation. Supporting technology-based entrepreneurship does not need to mean shoveling public money into risky start-ups or creating a special status privileged to start-ups. Think of us as pioneers, front-line testers, whose bureaucratic barriers have been removed and whose activity invigorating the number of talent in the labour market is, in fact, a general benefit, the effect of which reaches the whole economy very quickly. These aren't exceptions or things for small start-ups. The start-ups are not a goal in this vision, but a first step in the chain, where the best of them will become high-tech real companies over the years, which in turn will create all the other jobs needed for the well-being of the people of Estonia. Start-ups are a stepping stone to this goal. What if you agreed, in this Chamber, as a basis for economic policies, a simple objective: to give priority to the creation of new technology companies? I am sure that the wealth brought home from the world in this way is enough for the whole of Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U84	The first question to the rapporteur is asked by Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much to Sten Tamkivi for this interesting presentation! Our country's start-up policy has indeed been based on IT, it is the start that has grown into buds and where flowers can be seen. But the question is that we actually see social attitudes as a barrier. IT, in a sense, tires people; these solutions are not intended to be used in the best possible way. There are also official barriers that prevent them from being better introduced in the country. Where do you see the solutions? What can we do here to make us even more successful?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U86	There were several questions. I wonder what angle I'm trying to answer. First of all, we're talking about IT, but it's possible to make a start-up in a lot of other areas. I think we could look more broadly at where Estonian science is strong and where Estonian education is strong. Is it biotechnology, some kind of medical thing, material science, or something else? On the basis of this knowledge, new businesses could be created. It does not have to be limited to information technology. Information technology has one very powerful aspect. This is because great things can be done with very few resources, as every hour of work spent in information technology can be amplified and contribute to the well-being of millions of people. Skype's first version was written by four programmers in a few months, and a few months later it had its first million users. When you do physical things, try to move atoms, build houses or produce something in a factory, it is much more difficult and expensive to achieve this volume, and it requires much more human resources. Therefore, I think it is better for a small country like Estonia, where the number of talents is limited, to deal with software and information technology. We can move these things faster. The second part of your question concerned certain fatigue. I admit, even inside the start-up sector, constant start-up talk can certainly wear off. In my experience, I can say that it is not easy to build one company for ten years, for example, but there are also moments of fatigue. But I think that technology brings added value not only to society but also to people in particular. The charm of these solutions, the fact that technology can make people's lives easier, is in the end what increases people's enthusiasm and makes them test new things. Even with a lot of movement around the world, it seems to me that Estonia is still relatively good at this. If you look at the enthusiasm the average Estonian grandmother gives e.g. digital signature, it seems to me that there is enthusiasm here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U87	Marko Šorin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Mr Tamkivi, an extremely interesting presentation. Since you are an expert in this field, unlike the previous waitress, you are credible. Innovative and high-margin products and services are the target of a very large number of countries, and this is where they want to move. In order not to talk about the past, I ask what position Estonia is in today so that in three or four or five years' time we can see what progress we have made. How do you assess where we are today and where we will end up?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U89	Thank you. Estonia, I would say, is in quite an anomalous situation. There are definitely the most start-ups per capita in Europe. We are clearly at the forefront of the number of start-ups, their achievements, the capital involved and the indicators when we look at our colleagues in the European Union. Silicon Valley simply because of its enormous volume and some of us wealthier small countries, such as Singapore, can be examples of this beyond Europe. I think it is very good to start and run a business in Estonia. Where are Estonia's weaknesses? In global competition, this is probably labour taxation, which concerns the creation of very expensive jobs. For example, there is one thing that entrepreneurs have talked about a lot about, a linear and endless increase in social tax. We all understand the need for solidarity. If you have to pay a social tax of EUR 330 on a salary of EUR 1000, it is understandable, but if you hire a top programmer with a monthly salary of EUR 10 000 from America or England to Estonia, and his health care and pension costs (though he may not even be able to retire in Estonia) is EUR 3300 per month, then the question arises that maybe it would be cheaper to create this job in Berlin or Amsterdam. So there's a deficit. One problem in Estonia, which has been an independent state for decades, is migration. It is a pleasure to report that a very big leap has been made. At the end of last year, a start-up news came out that Estonia is at the forefront of how quickly a visa can be obtained if a technology company wants to bring an outside flight. In 84% of the cases in Estonia, we may be able to bring in smart workers, but the world average was about 45%. In Estonia, these things are very well done. It seems to me that the bureaucracy phase is behind us, and now there is an increasing need to deal with how to build an open society, attract people here, help them overcome climatic differences, etc. Some things are pretty good for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U90	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U91	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you! It was the view of the driver of the train, but most Estonians who watch this transmission are sitting in wagons and many in the last wagons, I mean kindergartens, teachers, nail technicians, etc. What would you suggest that they also pay social security contributions of a thousand euros per month?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U92	Thank you. I refer again to the research of Italian Professor Moretti. I was talking about exactly this type of job, exactly the other activities taking place in this kind of community: the service sector, certainly teachers, day-care providers, etc. The more smart people who work in the technology sector, the more they value that their children also receive a very good education. In my opinion, the pressure is increasing so that schools and kindergartens are increasingly financed. These are classic jobs that are driven by the emergence of the community's first very high-value-added jobs. The strong first-hand treatment of these jobs is difficult in my opinion; one of their common denominators is that they offer their services very regionally: the Estonian kindergarten teacher raises children in Estonian or Russian, the Estonian nail technician puts their nails into his hands, or whatever he does to customers who are located within the nearest few kilometres radius. In order for these people's standard of living to rise, it is necessary that within this few kilometres there is someone who brings this money away from a distance, that money is brought from the remaining seven billion people to Estonia and then spends it on the ground on these services. That's the logic that, I believe, we could pursue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U93	Tanel Winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tamkivi, thank you very much for this forward-looking and good presentation. You said you didn't come here to teach us, but I would still ask for advice, taking advantage of the fact that you're here today. As a country, can we do something else to be a little more powerful in terms of innovation and the take-up of new technologies and also more competitive throughout the world, making use of our small size and flexibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U95	Thank you. I'm sure the country can do a lot. I think that the Estonian state is doing a great deal compared to many other countries in the world. There was one question that we heard that the technology applications of the Estonian state itself were mentioned. I will bring up one of the most recent examples that I am sincerely proud of when I walk around the world. It's e-residency. With the development of our e-state, we have reached the point that our state's infrastructure is so good that we are the first country in the world to make a completely non-egoistic decision and to think that if we are so good, how can we let others in and open Estonia's e-state infrastructure so that more and more people in the world can make their own business, for example, without having to come to Estonia, and bring new players to Estonia's domestic space, to Estonian banks and lawyers, etc. This is how the effect that we talked about is created without the need for a massive influx of people. Estonia has positioned itself in a place where no one else is. It seems to me that within the Estonian state, we have not yet realized that this really is the case that we have a unique opportunity that can be used. As far as economic policy and entrepreneurship are concerned, I generally think that most technology companies agree that the less the state intervenes and the less barriers it faces, the better. Technological innovation is extremely fast and very aggressive, with very many costs falling twice in 18 months and capacity growing twice. During one cycle of the Riigikogu, the size of many changes is 23. If there is action in such an environment, competition will raise the strong to the surface and the weak will sink away. 90% of the start-ups fail. I think it is not very sensible to try in this environment to make a country choose who could be winners, or to make some sort of distinctions for certain types of companies, but rather better, the more open, uniform and easier the environment is if you can create jobs, hire people, bring them here from outside Estonia, send Estonians to study abroad and do all these things. Of course, all basic investments, such as security, education, health care, kindergartens, etc., are things that smart workers need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U96	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U97	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I would like to continue on the subject of the social tax ceiling, the so-called social tax ceiling. The faction of the free party has three times initiated a discussion in the Riigikogu and received negative feedback from two different governments. The main objection has been quite understandable: a large hole remains in the state budget, which is difficult to fill, because depending on where to place the ceiling, this hole is either 80, 90, 100 or 110 million euros. Do you think, however, that a hole of about this magnitude is real in the future by introducing a ceiling for social tax to fill? How soon can this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U98	I think it's real, but I can't predict it today. The investors of Start-up look at the case according to portfolio theory: if one of the 100 companies that contributed brings back more than ten or a hundred times the amount, he will return the entire fund. This means that the last 60 will die out. In a country the size of Estonia, where there are currently 400 start-ups, mathematics could function roughly in such a way that four of them turn into TransferWise and their value increases to billions of euros. Prediction, however, is a very ungrateful work. I think, once again, in the case of a social tax ceiling, I do not dare to become very tactical because I am not prepared for it and I do not have any more options in front of the bill than this mechanical or linear option that we draw a line here or there. One of the things that some start-ups in Estonia have proposed is that what would be opposed if the state did not immediately withdraw 30 to 40% of the investors' money in the first few years, which mainly concerns the payment of labour, could, for example, give the start-up 0.5% of its shares to the state. In the future, if this company is among their own success, the State would receive this money back as shareholder income, but it would risk that in many cases these shares could become worthless. It should not be that money is the first thing off the table and the first two years are starving all of Estonia, because some entrepreneurs hope to succeed, but somehow a more direct chain should be created through which the winners who succeed in the technology sector would bring that money back. This way of thinking is supported, I think, by the fact that all the entrepreneurs I know in the Estonian technology sector, though operating around the world, are irrationally very large Estonian patriots. I haven't met anyone who, after happiness, success and hard work, wouldn't want to pay taxes to their home country. However, I meet young entrepreneurs every day, who are struggling with the way in which their first small injection of EUR 100000 from investors could also make a product without being paid off to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U99	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U100	Good President! Good waitress! We are known in the world for our e-government success story and e-residency initiative. However, compared to other countries, it appears that our companies use digital solutions less than others in their production processes and services. What do you think is the reason for this and can the state do something and what the state can do to motivate companies to use more digital solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U101	I think it's going to be relatively naturally. Companies that can afford not to use technology therefore operate in a market where competition does not force them to do so. For example, if someone makes a product with cheap labour and sells it in a place where there are no competitors using technology, they can afford it. As soon as someone like this enters this market, or if the same company tries to export and go to a foreign market where others use technology, it will also quickly reach the point that it must implement it in order to remain competitive. I think that the overall macro thrust in this direction is quite a natural process and it is difficult to say what the country can do. But there are obviously things that prevent it for a short time. For example, thanks to the fact that we have enough exporting technology companies, very many good programmers have just gone to work for them, and apparently the state has discovered that if it wants to buy the next e-state system through public procurement, it is like nobody wants to come forward. Apparently, Estonian industrial companies may also find that they cannot pay programmers. Perhaps short-term measures could be about that, if the company has come to the conclusion that it wants to modernise production, it is then a forest-based, agricultural or whatever business, then it could be seen that it has access to credit so that it can make investments at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U102	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tamkivi, thank you for a very inspiring and positive presentation. All countries are looking for educated people with smart and open thinking. Estonia has tried to deal with this through its universities, higher education institutions, research and development institutions, even separate programmes. What is your assessment of whether we have succeeded in this: would Estonia, as a small country, need to think more about the social environment and the living environment at all, which is one of our trumps? What's your position? Maybe you can look into the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U104	Thank you. The role of universities in attracting talent to Estonia is, in my opinion, critical. In general, internationalism is important in both directions; it is important that both Estonian children go out of Estonia after school (they are still coming back to a large extent) and attract talent to Estonia. I think this last one's going pretty well. See how many study programmes there are in Estonian Master's programmes in English and how many technolootics come from other parts of the world on the basis of them. It's very good! One sign of this is that we have now come to the next level of problems. The problems I hear from entrepreneurs are, for example, that an external developer who comes from India's master's degree does not feel safe on his way home from work at night because someone has insulted him on the bus. These people are present, they are among us, they want to contribute to Estonia, they start working in Estonian companies. But how do we create an environment where they are cared for and respected in the same way as the Estonians who were born here? It's kind of a problem. The other side of the problem: recently, a university representative said that it was difficult to find internships. Again, what to do if you have a large number of English-language students who have come to Estonia for example to study cyber defence, and they want to go to a month or two summer practice. These 400 Estonian start-ups work in English and manage. However, if you look at the Estonian economy more broadly, it turns out that there is not much of a company that would be willing to integrate into its work, or somehow take its wing, a person in other languages who is still learning Estonian for example. The economy is not as sensitive to talent as it could have been to Estonia because of the acquisition of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U105	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Sten, for this very nice presentation. That was really refreshing to hear. I will continue where my colleague, Krista, graduated. It is claimed that if talent is looking for a place to live, they are very interested in the living environment and its quality. You spoke of the social side in the previous answer. This is certainly crucial, and we are also trying to contribute to improving it. But as far as this so-called physical, human-designed environment is concerned, have you studied with your last start-up what these criteria are and what you think we can do in Estonia to further improve the living environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U106	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U107	Thank you. Yes, according to Teleport and MOVE Guides data, we see quite well what talent on the move is looking for and watching and what interests them. Apart from such things as living expenses should be reasonable, which makes Estonia relatively good compared to the rest of Europe, especially compared to European metropolises, we have seen from the data sets that there are very specific strengths of Estonia that people really appreciate. Pure nature and air seem self-evident to us, but if you come from Hong Kong or Tokyo, you can appreciate them. Of course, associations are a very important issue for mobile talent. Tallinn is, on the one hand, an amazing city in the sense of how little time it takes for me to get on this plane or that I can still talk here now, even though this plane is about to go. But how many places you can fly straight from here isn't very good. Aviation, with its difficulties over the last five or ten years, has certainly hindered this kind of movement. But for the sake of the environment, to be able to live and work downtown, walk, tram or bike, for all these modern urban things, I think we have nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U108	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U109	Good President! Good waitress, thank you first for your encouraging presentation. It was encouraging for an info ehnologist, a hairdresser, and a yoga teacher. But I have a simple question. If the truly successful leaders of Estonian technology companies sometimes sit together in free form, how do they appreciate their education, what they have received in Estonian school, in upper secondary school? Is there anything we could notice or maybe change a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U110	Thank you. Absolutely. Entrepreneurs have this fine quality that they not only think and look but also do. One of the initiatives launched by Estonian start-up entrepreneurs is Estonia 2.0, which deals with this kind of basic and secondary education. If I separate primary, primary and secondary education from the whole education chain, I can say that I studied most of the time in Estonia and for some time in the US in the high school system. From this comparison, I can say that Estonia gave me an excellent foundation in science and logic, physics and mathematics, and so on. The thing I did for the first time in 11th grade in America was that I had to go to the board with several students and explain to others what I had discovered. It involves such things as expressiveness, the ability to explain complex technological concepts to others and to do so together with others, to stand up in the mass of students, the courage to go before others and to perform, as I am forced to do here today. All these things could happen in the third, fifth or seventh grade. A friend of mine has said that a very good genetic technologist probably doesn't get from someone who didn't think in sixth grade that a double helix was a really cool thing. We need to get into school besides theoretical learning, including these practical things, i.e. what can be done in the future with this theory. At the same time, I certainly do not believe that there is a need to give priority to physical substances over other substances. A successful technology company is still born when a strong technologist, a designer, who may be a humanitarian, even an anthropologist background, a strong businessman, thinks of numbers in a different way, etc. This diversity and the strength of the various sides will generate economic added value 10 to 20 years later. Therefore, all children need to be encouraged to find their way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U111	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U112	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Do you not think that Estonia is a bit stuck in its IT success brand? I have been to third countries to observe the elections and have seen that new IT solutions are being sought and tested, specifically for inclusion in the sense of government, such solutions for elections. Is the Estonian state still trying to find a way as a real IT state, which also means ordinary citizens? You've brought out a number of big brands here today. However, if we do not receive English extracts from the business register to represent our branch company in a neighbouring country, I would argue that we are far from these very simple and logical IT solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U113	Thank you. If Estonia were not the e-state that it is, it would be just another Eastern European country. That's the background, how you should look at it. If we didn't have this e-story, the number of people we can invite to a song party would be considerably smaller. Maybe it's part of the image of Estonia. Surely we are not stuck in it; we must continue to work hard on it. That doesn't mean we've finished all the information systems. I totally agree with that. I love how former Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Taavi Kotka, launched e-residency. He pulled this project into operation so we could start to see it like this: oh, but this system isn't yet used in English, oh, there's this thing broken, oh, I don't know, the Kenyan e-resident doesn't have an ID-card reader, maybe make him a new mobile app, etc. I think that innovation is happening so that we create some kind of vision, put some kind of direction, some kind of new wave into work, and then, for long, long years, we need to patch up small things that break down or that should be taken to a new level. This, in my opinion, is a logical part of the innovation cycle. I'm the one with the tragedy, like we're stuck behind a stump, you can't see it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U114	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you for your excellent and meaningful presentation, first of all, rapporteur. I would also like to thank the Estonian Reform Party for inviting you here today, so we have participated in this presentation! My question relates a little to the question of a good colleague, Toomas Jürgenstein. He asked what those who are already successful today are discussing, I ask what should be done in the school system so that young people, and perhaps even kindergarten children, are innovative and ready to receive everything? What should the school system complement or alter? You've answered that part of the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U116	Thank you. In kindergarten, children could ask questions. You could let them solve problems and problems, apply the things they've already learned, and put on their desk the things they can do for themselves. In order for someone to be a very good abstract thinker at 20 years of age, an artificial intelligence programmer, he should probably do manual activities in kindergarten, such as building robots from Lego blocks. In addition, the things I said earlier that children with different interests should be brought together, put them on something and show them how knowledge in action becomes some real thing that they made themselves. This could be the most compact way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said you had to bring more money to the country. I fully agree with this, and that is certainly also the aim of the current government. Another interesting argument was that we are missing 80,000 programmers. It could be like this. But do you have any idea where these programmers could come from and in what time? These programmers still tend to remain in larger cities, Tallinn and Tartu. Why is that? Why do programmers not want to live in the countryside and work in Ring, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U118	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U119	Thank you. It's a little tricky to track or pass on numbers in oral speech. I'm sorry! What I was talking about was that we could have 100,000 of all employees working in the technology sector, but now there are about 20,000 people working there. The share of the technology sector could increase. That certainly doesn't mean we're 80,000 programmers short. The leaders of the Estonian start-ups recently tried to read it together, and it turned out that after 3 to 5 years there will be about 8,000 missing. That's the order of magnitude. These jobs create other jobs around them. How could jobs be created outside Tallinn? First of all, one great opportunity is teleworking. I have a real-life story about this. Skype Estonia was at some point the largest taxpayer in Saaremaa, when looking at the taxes paid per employee. It came from the fact that one engineer preferred to work in Kuressaare, his home. Those kinds of stories exist because of teleworking, technological progress in places where there is a very good Internet connection and something that people like in this environment. Maybe you have an ancestor's farm there, maybe there's cleaner air than in downtown Tallinn, whatever that is. But basically, you can do your job there. I see a lot of movement. I'll see for myself that I'm trying to spend a lot of my summer in Saaremaa, but there's nothing I can do to leave money in Saaremaa's tax base. I can only be a local taxpayer in one place. Things of this kind could help to move the workforce more quickly around Estonia and create well-being in these places. From the entrepreneurs of Tartu, I hear basically the same community story. The train connection has improved and actually Tartu can reach the airport in two hours, but it is still difficult to fly directly from there. If you look at the flight plans at Tallinn Airport, you can see that a lot of flights land at 00.20. It's a bigger problem for the Tartian than it is for the Tallinian. So it's the same thing again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U120	Thank you. Now, the story is that the time for giving answers is over. Thank you, Sten Tamkivi, for your report and your answers. You'll catch the plane. Good luck! Before we move on to our subject, we need to deal with a procedural issue. The Reform Party Group has proposed to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. It needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There were 66 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Our next waitress is Ruth Oltjer, Member of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the University of Tartu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I talk about the traditional industry, the processing industry, and I'm here as a businessman, the founder and chairwoman of the company Chemi-Pharm. We live in a beautiful little country. I mean, we can't forget that. We have clean air, clean water, clean nature and clean forests with no chemistry. We have smart people, we build an e-society and an e-state. In a small country, there are advantages and disadvantages. I will give you the example of Singapore. Singapore has taken advantage of its shortcomings. Their greatest shortage must have been the lack of clean water, and the best technologies that have come into use there have been precisely water purification, water reuse and seawater desalination technologies. Another thing is that they have created one of the world's leading petrochemical clusters. How did they do that? They built a dream infrastructure. They gave access to it to the world's leading companies and gained synergies that have provided 17% of their current GDP. Estonia is a small country. We can fix our country and make our registers visible. We have e-elections, e-health and digital signatures. This is why we are envied in the world. We can go on with all this. Of course, what else can we do as a small country? We have a gene store, we've collected our genotypes. This gives Estonia the opportunity to go to personalized medicine. I think we're definitely ahead of this for a few years now from the rest of the world. What do businesses expect from the state? Businesses want a strategic view from the country, where we will be in five years' time. We want to see transparency, we want to see openness and fair competition. We want to live in a country with minimal bureaucracy. Wise people are our greatest resource. The most important thing for entrepreneurs is that the state is shaping the business environment. This environment should be supportive of businesses. The State should justify its choices and consider their impact. Unthinkable decisions are expensive and spendable resources in both the public and private sectors. Perhaps this is a bad example of low-paid income tax refunds and the highly complex personal income taxation system that will be in place. I don't really know how much this is gonna cost all of us, but maybe someone here can answer. In a situation where the European Union already supports our development with significantly large amounts of money, businesses find it a concern when reserves are now being introduced, because perhaps they would be needed when a more difficult situation arises, for example, in the global economy of the crisis or in 2020 when the Structural Funds' money ends and there is a transition period. Maybe then we should use that money. Businesses, of course, expect fair competition. I want to talk about a public procurement law that you have not yet adopted. This is a law that is directly responsible for corruption. If we can make the law on public procurement fully transparent, we can eradicate corruption from it. I now have this text ahead of me: 'The offerer shall state in the tender what information is the business secret of the offerer and state the reasons why the information is to be classified as business secret. The tenderer may not, as trade secrets, indicate the value of the tender or the contributions (and now there is a clause between the commas that should not actually be there. - R. O.) where they are taken into account in the evaluation of the tenders, or any other numerical characteristic of the tender which meets the award criteria. 'It's 'if they are taken into account in the evaluation of tenders' that actually gives quite a lot of opportunities for all kinds of slipping. Think about it! You will have the opportunity to vote. Before coming to taxes, I say that as an entrepreneur, I wonder whether the state has actually fixed all its internal resources and whether the state has been fixed. Who's really running our country right now? Is it run by ministers, officials, chancellors or deputy chancellors? Do we need that many hospitals? Maybe two regional hospitals would be enough. Do we need a health insurance fund? Perhaps this issue could be resolved differently. Do we need two or four universities? In fact, in universities, resources are duplicated and resources are also stuck in the walls. If we could reduce this kind of thing, we could get money into the state budget. Companies are currently assisted by nearly ten organisations active in all forms of support activities. Perhaps they could be pooled in order to save resources, it would also be possible to get to know the needs of businesses better and to make a greater contribution to them. Of course, businesses find this to be frightening by tax-laundering. The tax will generate revenue in the budget, but for each small tax that is designed, the company will increase the price of the product by 0.5%. These small taxes are also difficult to administer and difficult to collect. Perhaps it would be easier to raise 1% VAT. It was just a point. The car tax, too, if it was made easy, maybe it's not a bad idea. Now we're talking about the present, and I'm starting to talk about the future. Entrepreneurs love to joke that we are doing well as a country, but not thanks to good governance, but nonetheless. In order for the country to be successful, it is necessary that state governance is in order. What can we do in the future, and where are we headed? Quite a lot has been said about the knowledge-intensive economy, that we need to take the next step, get to the next level and be able to deserve more of what we do. I come again to Estonia's own resources. We actually have the same green resource that can be used when using biotechnology. We could earn even the cereals we sell out of the country at world market prices right here on the spot, and we could get a lot of money out of it. Our own farmers and grain growers could be the owners of factories like these, why not? There are also resources in the dairy industry. In the world, technology is used in many places, but not in many places, which allows the product to be taken apart as individual components of milk and put together precisely where it is supplied, this place is then Chinese, Singapore, Malaysia or Indonesia and is then cream, milk or lactose-free milk. I have been to a factory like this in Germany, and I think that if the transfer of knowledge were to take place here, it would be possible to build such plants in Estonia too, certainly with investors. From an economic point of view, it is not how much the company invests in R &amp; D, but how much money will come back effectively from it afterwards. Of course, information and communication technology is also an important issue. Industrial companies, which have not yet started digitising, are already behind world class. There are many such companies and they should actually be helped. One should consider what this programme or training measure could be. Instead, we should be dealing with robotics and being at the forefront in this area, because the pace of change in society is enormous. I just spoke to the Taavi Eagle yesterday. He said there's 2,000 people missing in IT a year, but the quotas are getting full. We should think that if we bring smart people to Estonia, perhaps quotas should not be ahead and prevent it. I've come to the people now. In fact, human resources are our most important asset. I mean, lifelong learning is the most important thing for us right now. I have a problem here. Part-time education in universities only takes place with special authorisation from ministries. But let's think about someone like me who first graduated from med school and then worked 15 years as a doctor. If you start doing business, the only way to get a master's degree in the economy is through part-time learning, otherwise you don't do entrepreneurship. Maybe we could make it easier. Universities could offer a form of study that takes place on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, but not Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Okay, now I'm coming to doctoral school. We could have more doctors, and not just in the sense that we're training them now, if we're training doctors for some sort of area. Doctoral studies could be conducted in such a way that a person can have a little economic basis and a little leadership background. I myself have two doctors working in the company, and I see that they lack economic education and leadership skills. That's why we can't use them in places where we can pay them more. But they are the carriers of this innovation, which creates cooperation with the university in the company. People with PhDs could also be in ministries, because then there would be tripartite innovation. I think it would be a driving force. There was a question earlier about kindergartens and schools. The thing you can still look at is vocational training. We see that the decision to go to vocational training is often made too late, before the upper secondary school has been completed, but perhaps it would be possible to make that decision immediately after primary school. A teacher and perhaps such a thing should help here if basic school students were to attend vocational schools, for example, internships. When you come to kindergarten, I still think it's very easy to find out what the balance sheet is and to be on the balance sheet when kindergarten is finished. That's where it happens as a game, but we can get a lot of enterprising people with it. I think that if Estonian companies do well, the Estonian people will do well, and if the Estonian people do well, the Estonian state will do well, because then taxes will be collected and we will be able to implement all our social programmes. So the university, state and entrepreneurs must work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U122	Thank you, Ruth Oltjer! Questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It was very nice listening to your presentation, because this report was without the subtext and the irony we often hear from this remote control. How quiet the hall was! Perhaps it gives us the courage to speak as calmly, sincerely and as humanly as we are to be heard here. But here's the question. The previous rapporteur said about Estonia's e-Governance and e-Education in such a way that we should keep this e-Education so that we are not just an Eastern European country. How do you feel about this manipulation, which is currently being planned in relation to e-elections, raising our e-performance story in a positive way even more, or actually signaling other societies that we are leaving this e-progress story?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U124	My personal opinion is that we should not leave our e-success story. Yesterday, we had a long talk with the Taavi Eagle, who was present as a performer of the Association of Large Entrepreneurs. He said that no country has an ID as strong as it is in Estonia. We're still the first in the world with our e-governance. I don't do this myself, I can only comment on what he says.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U125	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U126	Honourable Chairman! Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your presentation, you asked whether anyone knew how much this low-paid tax experiment would cost. We do. The direct bureaucracy alone, the reorganisation of the tax administration's information systems, costs EUR 7 million, while the entire economy still suffers enormous losses. First of all, the damage is that it promotes low-paid, low-skilled and simpler jobs. However, the graduated system of tax exemptions, consisting of thousands of steps, which will enter into force next year, and the development of this system will be much worse. There this limit is set out at EUR 1770. You spoke of smart jobs, and you represent the view of industry. On the pay scale of next year, how do these smart jobs position, whether their tax burden is going to increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U127	Smart jobs bring in smart money, and certainly these smart jobs are highly paid. But how their administration takes place, in this regard, I am not the right person to answer here right now, it is up to the legislator to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U128	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U129	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! The share of Estonian R &amp; D expenditure in GDP is 1.5%. This is half of the target that we have set ourselves by 2020. The private sector accounts for 40% of R &amp; D expenditure, for example in the Nordic countries it is 70%. How to motivate the private sector to contribute more to R &amp; D?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U130	Thank you. Good question! It may be a bit of a political undertaking, as was IT development, which may have started with Tigger jump. But we've kept our image as an IT state politically everywhere. Now, if we were to raise so-called scientific economic entrepreneurship to the same position, then this contribution might come about. My AS Chemi-Pharm contributes 10% of the turnover to research and development, which is a very large amount, but we do so because we are convinced that we will get this money back from the big markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U131	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! You criticised the tax changes made in your report and those that are still going to happen, but you also said that the environment should support the company. I think that this environment did not seem to have been very supportive in terms of taxes, since our economic growth was still very low. Hence the question: what should this environment be like? Can you give some concrete examples to support an entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U133	Thank you. The company is most supported by a transparent and non-corruption environment. We're building a new factory right now. We went to Poland to look at the possible location of the plant, but it was not an option that we would have built our factory in Poland, although, in European terms, this would have been the best solution for us. The Estonian environment is good. The more transparent, clearer and cleaner the country is, the better it is to work here. Of course, we would like to get down on labour taxes and, of course, we would like it not to be taxed on inputs but rather on consumption. I don't know if that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U134	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U135	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you very much for the waitress. What's very sympathetic is that I have a diploma in my pocket from the same university that you're chairman of the board of directors of. But my question comes from your two comments. A good colleague Aivar Sõerd also asked about this, but I am asking about the other side. You considered this tax-free income rising to EUR 500 as a problem. I think the problem is that this tax-free income is still so low. Another problem is that compared to our neighbours and to other Europe, our minimum wage is extremely low. My question is the same as I asked the President of the Reform Party. He didn't answer that. Why, then, do entrepreneurs go where the company has income tax, and why do contractors go where there is progressive income tax? The second question relates to regional policy. You said that you should concentrate Estonian universities and should concentrate hospitals that are going in this direction anyway. Where, then, should the balance come from so that all of Estonia can live and people everywhere in Estonia can live a living and decent life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U136	I'll start with the second question. Actually, all these are points of thought. If there were two regional hospitals in Estonia that would organise the work of all county hospitals and that would be like their responsibility, then perhaps it would be easier to administer. Maybe we should determine what the highest-level function in the county hospital is. This could perhaps be a computer survey, the answers of which will be read either in Tartu or Tallinn. We still have quite a lot of money in the walls, that is clear when we think about the country and when we just think about the economy. When I came back to the first question, I might have made the wrong impression. I don't really mind a 500-euro tax-free minimum, I'd rather think about how to administer everything. I'd like to make this country a little easier for administration. Zero bureaucracy was actually a good goal, I would like to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U137	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You very well appreciated the Estonian higher education landscape. You are also Chairman of the Council of the University of Tartu. Do you think that we have too many higher education institutions, do you think they do not work very well with each other, or do you see the biggest problems in higher education and beyond in R &amp; D?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U139	Thank you. I would rather look at the common ground that we have so that we can work together well. Perhaps again, in order to reduce the walls that inevitably arise, we could definitely administer sports establishments in Tartu together with the University of Life Sciences, perhaps together we could organise some basic lectures. If you continue to ask about vacant faculty positions, I say that if these faculty members were to be directed to the high school or also to the professional level, then, I think, our young people would gain a great deal from this. I hope that our faculty will be motivated to go there because the current wage level is quite low and it would provide an opportunity to raise salaries there. If you look at the structure of work, it is very typical that 0.5 places are done in science, while 0.5 places are also taught at another university. That's the way it's gonna come together. It's just a matter of time, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U140	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U141	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Several debates have concluded that businesses actually have money and that their investment opportunities are much greater. Will you join in saying that Estonian companies are holding back their investments? What are the factors that would motivate Estonian entrepreneurs to invest and to open wallet irons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U142	Thank you. This may be what we talked about before. Some companies have standing money. It is clear that there is currently an exchange of generations in business. The older generation, which has remained in business, does not invest very easily, as investment is currently relatively complex and in many ways incomprehensible to them. These people don't see how that money can come back or anything. I think there's something we can do with training here. But those companies that have already gone to export markets and see the opportunities of these markets and that, if efficiency is low, it can be increased, for example, with this digitalisation and with all other things, I think, much easier to invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U143	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam waitress, first of all, thank you very, very much for extending and clarifying my question to the previous rapporteur. I, too, very much believe that vocational education is a very important component. If a child in kindergarten has left his or her belongings out or has done so as he or she grows up at home, then they are generally spread out at the workplace, not to mention that such a person may experience more accidents at work. But now I'm coming to help my good trade and party partner, Tanel Talve, who can't ask the third question, and I'm going to ask him a question. We really do have good solutions at national level, but for some reason they are not all used or used very little in small business. True, there are also very good examples. What could be the reason? Can the state help or what could be the motivation that would bring these solutions to more use in small businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U145	We have many small businesses and they are of different levels. In the working group on economic development, small companies were represented by a catering company. It remained to be said that a relatively large number of the informal economy and those companies that do not declare their income were still present. Such a company will never export, such a company will never grow up and it is probably not in its interest to apply all the latest solutions. I think that precisely when an entrepreneur has a big vision and wants to get somewhere, it is very important. These decisions still come from owners and CEOs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U146	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this very sincere and honest speech. You also pointed out in your speech the kind of future looking places that we should pay attention to. Three of those mentioned by you spoke to me: a knowledge-intensive economy, digitalisation in industry and, in fact, human resources. After all, the key word for these three is how much we invest in R &amp; D, both as a country and actually as entrepreneurs. As we know, with an increase in R &amp; D spending to 1% of the state budget, we have problems, i.e. the emphasis on entrepreneurs remains largely here. You are the company that is active in this field. What else do you think could be done to speed up the digitalisation of industry? Where's the bottleneck or where's the shoe squeezing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U148	Thank you. I guess we're gonna have to think about this together. The Confederation of Employers has also raised this issue, and we are increasingly trying to explain it to people, including businesses, because it is essential. I think there's something you can do with training here. Perhaps it would be worth organising different levels of training. First of all, they could train people who work on digitalised lines so that they could do something about it. I know the need for it from my own hands. When we started working on the first automatic-controlled blistering line, one man took the hammer, too, when the line didn't move as fast as he wanted, and decided to tap it. This guy doesn't work for us anymore. We could train the workers and train the drivers. These are different levels. If you are going to digitize production, it is very difficult to explain to the IT specialist what you really need, where your mind is going and what your future is. It would be good if we had all the systems compatible. Estonia is so small that we should be able to use public registers and be able to reconcile our systems with them when the possibility arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U149	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, In answering my previous question, you said that you were in favour of taxation on consumption. Our prices are often far above the prices of neighbouring countries, some of the goods here are half as expensive as in Finland, and we also have more expensive goods than in Latvia. Do you see, by looking at our current state of 'badness' and 'total consumption' taxation, a reserve so that we can increase consumption taxes further?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U151	Thank you. This means that if the tax rises, the producer will increase the price. Perhaps it is useful to raise taxes for the Riigikogu or for the administration of the state before the elections, but someone must then raise the price, and we cannot do anything without it. Let's take the package excise. This is relatively incomprehensible to the company. In my opinion, if there is an excise, I must be able to avoid it. There is no way to avoid this excise duty, I can't use a tank to take the products to the hospital's yard, because they have to be next to the patient so that the doctor can use them immediately. Besides, we're gonna collect these packages, and we're gonna audit the packaging anyway. I don't know, there's nothing to do, but it just increases the price of the product.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U152	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U153	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! The title of our debate today includes the expression 'dangers and opportunities for entrepreneurship'. In this light, I would like to ask about bureaucracy. Our farmers are not generally whining people, but they claim that bureaucracy is constantly increasing. We make it a pretext that a lot of bureaucratic things come from the European Union, but we should not deny the increase in bureaucracy in our own country either. How do you solve this? At present, it seems that bureaucracy is constantly increasing, at least that is what farmers say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U154	Thank you. I think it is very difficult for me, as an entrepreneur, to regulate it. The less bureaucracy, the happier all businesses would be, that is right. It was a request to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U155	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U156	Good Ruth, thank you for your presentation. My question relates to education and especially to vocational education. We are currently preparing, in the Committee on Culture, a debate on a very important national issue, in cooperation with business, on vocational education and training. You are also an entrepreneur and a member of the Supervisory Board of the University of Tartu. What do you think about the issues of the image of vocational education and the trend of entrepreneurs, say,? Is there a lack of cooperation with the vocational education sector and how it is to be done, and what issues could be addressed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U157	Thank you, Laine, good question! We really want to work together. On the basis of my company, I can say that we are the first to go to vocational schools. If we need trainees, if we're looking for an employee, if we need replacement workers for the summer, if we need someone to work for the weekends, then we'll work with them. It is like an internship base, it could go on, it could be developed even more so that a larger number of students could go through it and see what this real life is. It could start from middle school, a few days a year. These are our own children that we are raising, and we should show them what we do in these companies. Maybe they can make a choice at the right time to go to vocational school. Business communication with vocational education and training should be very strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U158	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U159	Thank you. Good waitress! I'd rather have turned out. In your speech, you also mentioned the quota problem of moving or recruiting foreign workers to the detriment of quotas and linked this issue to the ICT sector. I am simply saying that the Chamber of Commerce, in its letter to the Ministry of the Interior at the beginning of this year, referred to this positive step that, from the beginning of the year, January, large investors, start-ups and their employees and foreigners working in ICT were released from quotas. So it wasn't quite your competence that quotas are going to restrict the recruitment of people in the ICT sector. I just had a remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U160	Yes, it is important that we, as a country, be ready to accept all the wise people who come to Estonia to do these knowledge-intensive jobs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U161	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Several times this topic has gone through, how much money is invested in R &amp; D in Estonia and that this money has not been provided by the state or companies. But the second question that has always bothered me is how many patents are registered in Estonia. It's also a very small number, even though it's gotten bigger. Ten years ago, no patents were registered in one year, while my former employer IBM registered about 3000 of them and at the same time contributed approximately the same amount to development as the total budget of the Estonian state, it was comparable, it was 8 billion dollars at the time. There were already 30 patents registered in Estonia last year. So the progress is noticeable, but it is still a small number. What do you think this is about? Is it difficult to register a patent or a lack of money and bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U163	Thank you. I can talk about my experience again. There are also very high-level employees in our company, and in the meantime we have to make some kind of start-ups to shine their eyes because they have found and come up with something new. This is where the patent problem arises. We cannot complete the patent until we have a firm investor and we know where this start-up will go, because the time that will take in Estonia from the completion of the patent to the fact that this patent can be registered as global, for example, is 18 months. During this period, a complete model must be completed. But before the full model is reached in Estonia, the problem usually arises that the average entrepreneur runs out of money. The money runs out when the lab model is ready. The lab model works, it's tested, and then it's headed for the investor's search. This laboratory model is likely to go to Asia, Saudis, or Japan, where it is made into an industrial model. Before that, we can't take the patent because we don't want to publish the know-how. I have one concrete example to give. We have a lab model ready, and it would take $3 million to make it an industrial model and to do clinical research. The money goes to $3 million, but the value of the model would rise to $15 million. If we were to establish production in Estonia, for example, it would cost 45 million already. But the products are the ones that could be used around the world. These are the concerns of the average entrepreneur due to Estonia's small size. That's why these patents aren't going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U164	Thank you, Ruth Oltjer! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the member of the board of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I'm opening negotiations. The proposal by the Reform Party, which initiated the crucial national issue, to the President has been such that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor. I'm based on what I see on the screen, and on what I've been told outside the screen. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is a very nice debate initiated by the Reform Party and certainly very necessary. Although, if I myself had to outline a political programme quickly, I would not put the economy first, but the person and his/her initiative, which should apply in different areas, including the economy. It seems to me that one of the biggest problems in Estonia today is that we have fewer and fewer people of initiative who would also be responsible and willing to do new things and dare to do new things. There is too much centralisation in our society, there are too many addiction chains, party-care and corrupt relations, but I would say that there is also hidden political corruption. People in this environment avoid risks. I came across a survey that was commissioned a few years ago, we had a development fund that was not the best developed institution, but a study report was commissioned, which stated that only 3% of young people were interested in starting a business. This figure was much lower in Estonia than in the European Union on average. Does it, then, speak of a liberal economic environment that we have just as well? I think there is a big contradiction here and this contradiction needs to be clarified. I think it is primarily about the comfort zone that our people prefer and the prevention of risks, it speaks too strongly about the advanced public sector, at times so advanced that it tends to discourage entrepreneurship. Previously, there was talk of zero bureaucracy and that regulations should be reduced. However, we have made very little progress in this area, I would even say that we should be able to break something called either the law on the continuity of substitute activities, the law on the persistence of bureaucracy or the law on the persistence of duplication of activities. Somewhere over and over again, problems are being solved, but at the same time, we are creating new bureaucracy and new over-regulations. There was already an example of how much the application of low-wage tax exemptions, which was made for one year, now comes a different solution. That's a colossal amount! And it's a political mistake, it's not a civil servant's fault that it's gone like this. I now come to the broader picture of Estonia's competitiveness. In my opinion, the best idea of this is the World Economic Forum's assessment, which says that Estonia is around 30 in comparison with 140 countries. But the criteria according to which this assessment is to be made are a total of 12. The way we are on this line is, I think, very eloquent. There's one thing we can't do against, it's the small size of the market. Let's put it aside. But it's very sad that our index is being downgraded by the fact that we have a weak level of innovation, our production is not very difficult. And even worse, it's... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U166	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U167	So far, our traditional strength has been a macroeconomic environment. I think that strong budgetary discipline and balanced public finances have been one of the most robust indicators. Looking at the steps that are being planned now, it turns out that not only are we neglecting the development of our weaknesses, but we are also losing out on the last strengths. Here it was how far we are from the goal of investing 1% of GDP in R &amp; D. We're not approaching this goal, we're always falling behind. I think it's very instructive to look at this picture. What can be said about this in summary? The biggest complaint that had to be made to the previous government in a row and in a row was that there was a festive march. I guess what you have to say to the current government is, don't sell our last strengths, don't give them up. This concerns both tax policy, where new small taxes, which increasingly need to be administered, as well as budget deficits, will increasingly be introduced, and it will certainly also concern the abolition of the image of the e-state, to which reference has also been made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U168	On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests who must have left the hall! Do you know this song that wants to fly, but not very high? How much have you thought about the contents of this song? It's a story about someone who has dreams, but who has a terrible fear of doing something. Fortunately, there are always people who dare to fly. There were two people in front of us today who have dared to fly. And it is so nice that there are other people in Estonia who dare to do things that are actually realizable. Yes, there are people who fail, but it is those people who dare to do something, who do not set low goals, that are actually those who move society forward. In the broadest sense. Perhaps we would not exist as people, but we would still be sitting on a tree, perhaps our Estonian state would not exist; our re-independence country would not exist if there were no people who had flying ideas and thoughts. There are many such people among entrepreneurs. We should not discourage them; we should encourage those people who may want to fly but who, for some reason, do not dare to rise very high to do so. The wealth of society is created in companies, it creates our goods and services, there we get a job, there we get our income either as a salary or as a profit. After all, the taxes that the state can spend on pensions, health care, education, road construction, security will come from the money it earns. It's an opportunity. If we do not have strong entrepreneurship, we will never live well. The Estonian state cannot influence what is happening in the rest of the world. We're a little too small for that, we're not turning over the big processes. As members of the European Union, however, we can have some influence on these processes. But we can influence the things that take place in Estonia. It is very important that we do not make these decisions from the perspective of what will happen this year or next year. My professional background has always made me think about the future. I know that political decisions will actually work in a couple, three, four years, they won't work immediately. I'm just talking about the economic effects. It is one thing to adopt laws and enforce them, but the other is how these rules will eventually affect the economy and how they will generate revenue for us. Let us sit and think before we make these decisions. But when we think about what we could do in the near future, in order to be good for us in four or five years' time, we must remember that the role of the state is to create the frames in which people deliver. Believe me, people are pretty smart when they're given a chance to take responsibility and act. You don't have to tell me exactly who's going where and how and how this whole thing is going to go. Let us give those who want to fly a chance to fly, because then we will all win. Several things have been mentioned today: cutting red tape, ensuring fair competition, bureaucracy, taxation. I really enjoyed talking about education and science. It is a great pity that this government has rejected the objective that public funding for science should be 1% of GDP. I admit that one of the main objectives of my short ministerial office was precisely to deal with it, but unfortunately I did not get to that. So I hope that we will still be able to target the future and research and development. Let us trust people and let them fly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U170	Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's economic growth has been lagging behind forecasts for a long time, the real economic situation has clearly turned out to be worse. For example, Estonia's economic growth was clearly below the euro area average in 2015. Kidur's economic growth has become our latest trend, in the most dangerous way. We must not get stuck in this for a long time and we must take thoughtful steps to overcome this situation. A clear priority for the government union is to make the economy grow faster again. In this regard, we consider rapid economic growth to be important, as many members of society as possible. That is why we have gone on the path of inclusive growth, which creates opportunities for all parts of society and fairly distributes the value created between the various parts of society. It has been interesting to hear the rhetoric of opposition members that the loan is not the devil, but the time is wrong and the ideas of the investments offered are bad. I recall how the long-term Minister Jürgen Ligi here spoke blue-eyed that running into a Greek creditor is not a cost, but an investment. Anyone who dared to think differently was looked down. What, though, has come of these positive investments to date? This is a huge downside, the performance of which is nowhere to be seen. Unlike the Reform Party, we do not invest in some distant lands but in the well-being of our people. The decision to borrow is not about living at the expense of future generations, it is not about election day or anything else. This is a desire to revive the Estonian economy and to help Estonia out of the long wave in which we have been struggling since the previous crisis. During the crisis, the governments of the Reform Party decided to take the road to a harsh hatchet, and as a result of this decision, Estonia has been slow to emerge from the crisis. Estonia needs changes and we also offer them. The total amount of strategic infrastructure investments for the next three years will be EUR 135 million. This is part of the government's plan to carry out large-scale investments in Estonia that boost the economy and improve the quality of the living environment. According to a three-year plan, this will lead to EUR 45 million of investment in infrastructure every year, which will also give us better and faster connections and greater road safety. The Estonian economy has been in a state of stagnation for a long time, and action is needed to get out of it. As the funds of the European Union's current funding period have already been used in most of Estonia, we believe that the additional investment programme and large-scale constructions will contribute to the relaunch of the economy. Infrastructure investments also have a regional dimension, contributing to a slowing down of peripheralisation. In order to preserve life in the countryside, proper connections with the centres are needed, as good and quick alternatives mean that you do not have to move to the capital because of your job. In order to revive the economy, we have decided to build an international tourism and conference centre in Tallinn city hall, etc., in cooperation with Tallinn. We have also set out to establish a measure to support investments in housing funds in local governments. Support for the development of the housing fund aims to ensure the availability of energy-efficient municipal housing with low maintenance costs, which would have a positive impact on the business environment in the regions and improve the living environment in general. A broadband distribution network will also be built in cooperation between the state, local authorities and the private sector. The new government coalition has decided to change policy, as demonstrated by the investment programme already published earlier. In addition, we have decided to change the earlier decisions, which we consider to be unfair, whether, for example, the return of VAT from 14% to 9% for accommodation establishments or the abolition of the increase in excise duty on diesel for 2018. Now I'm going to be more specific about the business environment. It is important to point out that Estonia is a country with a small but still attractive economic environment. In order to preserve such an environment, it is important to support start-up domestic companies, companies already operating here, as well as multinational companies. To this end, the Government Coalition has agreed that the 20% tax rate on dividends paid by companies on a regular basis will be reduced to 14%. We also intend to create an entrepreneurial account that will enable people to deal with small business without red tape. When discussing the Estonian economy and its opportunities for development, it is important to bear in mind that action should be taken on several fronts. For example, one of the worst population problems facing our country and our people is the bottleneck, which indirectly also results from labour shortages, which are becoming one of the most important factors limiting entrepreneurship in this century. The population has grown in recent years, but only 0.1¢0.2%, which is certainly not enough. I am therefore pleased to note that the government has made this a priority over long years. The increase in the number of people is being reversed by an increase in people's well-being, an increase in the number of years of healthy living and the return of people to their homeland. To this end, we have decided that every draft law and programmed document must, even with a fragment, contribute to resolving the population crisis and curbing emigration, all of which, in turn, contribute to our economy. As a result of the above, we will come to the next bottleneck of economic development, which is the ageing of the working-age population. This is an area that we are already dealing with. We need to create opportunities, whether through better functioning of the health system, retraining or other measures, so that people stay longer in the labour market. In the 21st century, one of the economic brakes is inequality. We must not underestimate in any way the role of inequality in economic development. This results in differences and conflicts in society, social instability, whether in the form of illness or poverty, and social hatred. We must stand up to prevent such problems in society, we must wind up economic development and contribute to social policy, education policy and also tax policy. This is why this government is planning to implement a tax reform by increasing tax-free income to EUR 500. From next year, people earning up to 1200 euros will have 64 euros more each month.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U173	Thank you. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U174	Thank you. § 70 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that a member of the Riigikogu is authorised to speak when his name is mentioned. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U175	Thank you. Of all the simplicity of the previous speaker, all I can say right now is that he was wrong to quote me just as much as he was to determine the color of my eyes. He said I was blue-eyed, but that's why. He also said that I had called the loan granted to Greece an investment. Let it be said that the loan granted to Greece needed such labelling, because it was not a non-refundable aid. But the point of investing was not to make money directly into the budget, but to stabilise the economic environment. It has been very effective in the euro area, it has ended the debt crisis and given governments the opportunity to deal with structural reforms, led by the way, Greece, where the economy has started to grow and the budget is already in surplus. So it was a good decision, but the opponents could be smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U176	Let's continue the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to the Reform Party for this fine debate, and especially to the business co-rapporteurs. Estonia could speak of very rapid economic growth ten years ago, the future seemed bright and growth eternal. Today, together with the ripening of the country and the experience of various crises, there has also been the knowledge of economic development, with all its ups, opportunities and declines. Since the last crisis and the introduction of the euro, our economic growth has been significantly lower, swaying within a limit of 1 to 2%. The budget strategy prepared by the Ministry of Finance for 2017 has planned an average growth rate of 2.8%. Compared to the low economic growth of the previous years, it seems beautiful, but very many people have said, as if, that way, we will never catch up with the developed countries that have set an example for us in many ways. What, then, can we do to ensure that the prosperity of our society and the well-being of the people increase and that we reach either the new Nordic or any developed country community or group? The development of the economy can be discussed in a number of ways. By banging a few million tax changes from the policy of existence, the measures taken, which seem to change everything, can be said with proud words, but they only concern a few details. Let us be honest, the political trapping carried out by the state policy changes little. However, it is not possible to talk about economic development without touching the roots of change. Developments in technology and the digital economy have changed millions of jobs in the world. It is characteristic that changes are taking place at an ever faster pace. A quarter to half of the current jobs will disappear in the next few decades. These are welcome changes in terms of economic efficiency. For people, however, this means technological unemployment, a situation where people's skills and experience so far simply become useless. This is not a distant future, it is already a reality. This is not even a question of the next century, but a question of the next decade. Let us remember that in Estonia, for example, there were 39000 people working in agriculture in 2000, and now 25,000 people working there, or more than a third less. In the 1990's, there were even over 100,000 people working there. There were 8,000 employees in the mountain industry, and now there are nearly three times as many, or just 3,000, people. In 25 years, our society has undergone an enormous transformation. But this is only the beginning. The adjustment of the economy to the evolving technological environment and the shrinking population is difficult for every company and employee every day. In 2016, the number of redundancies in Estonia increased by nearly a third compared to 2011, while recorded unemployment fell from 8.5% to 4.5%, i.e. about twice, i.e. the number of redundancies and recruitments has increased at the same time. New jobs will replace lost jobs, but they are not the same jobs. New places require different skills and experience, which the labour market does not have enough to offer. Jobs don't come to the same place they disappear. The mountain industry freed the workforce in Ida-Virumaa, but IT is developing in Tallinn. There are not many reasons to believe that a good mining worker will start working in the IT sector in Tallinn. This is where we come to the main problems of our economic development. Can we adapt labour market participants to the real needs of the labour market? Does our education system produce young people with the necessary skills? Is there, and is there, a retraining system that can make a part of people work in a completely different area? Let us acknowledge that in order for our economic growth to be much higher than 2 to 3%, a good and educated workforce is needed far more than Estonia can offer today. We don't have that kind of manpower. We have implemented and implemented moves to retrain the workforce. Work capacity reform has been launched to bring people with disabilities back to the market. The plan is to encourage the reintegration into the labour market of mothers who have been at home for a long time. The regime for the temporary use of third-country labour has been made more flexible. It has contributed to vocational and higher education. Young people with no education are being hunted, who should not disappear. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U178	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U179	In summing up, it can be said that the social democrats believe that one of the main keys to Estonia's economic development is hiding in the development of human resources. Only with this will we be able to respond to the changing needs of the labour market and to find jobs that create greater added value for people. Today, we are no longer alone with our opinion, and very many bankers and entrepreneurs clearly agree with us. This is ultimately a matter of stability for the whole of society. It is precisely for this reason that, in many parts of the world, globalisation and the needs of the changed economy have not been met, that extreme views have very often begun to spread. Too many people are disappointed and caught between the fast-change gears. It was them who supported Brexit and focused their campaign on Le Pen and also on Trump. Estonia could be a country capable of responding to changes and market challenges. Co-rapporteur Sten Tamkivi highlighted the need for a new economy: we would need 8 000 IT specialists right away. I ask where they should come from if we only have a little over 10,000 people a year and unemployment is nonexistent. According to a very large number of experts, Estonia has a very serious choice: is it limited to the same growth rate of 2 to 3% or even to a decrease in growth, because there are no people who could generate this growth or open up their labour market significantly more? According to experts, more workers are needed for more growth. Mr Raasuke, Chairman of the Working Group on Economic Development, has said that in order to compensate for demographic change, at least a few thousand pairs of hands should be involved each year in order to keep the workforce at least the same level. But I would ask: where are the opportunities for development? These choices, whether to open the labour market, how to open and how much to open, are very difficult because it is known that Estonian society does not really support the opening up of a much larger labour market. So we, the entire Estonian people, have a choice ahead of us: if you want to live better and want more growth, you have to allow the country a lot more workforce. However, this debate has not yet been held today, and it will be one of the key issues of our economic growth in the future. This debate must be held here, and without it it, it is very difficult to talk about sustainable growth and higher percentages of growth than it is today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U180	On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U181	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, For several hours, I listened here to the stories and opinions of many rapporteurs and political groups about the economy. Often they tried to say that someone had done badly and that someone had done well. I believe that the Estonian state has managed its economy relatively well over the last 25 years, we have still reached the economic situation that, I think, most of us could not hope or dream of in the 1990s. We often talk about making decisions in this Chamber. The government's coming up with drafts, and nobody likes them, and nobody likes them. Let us be honest, no matter what bill comes, if there is a rise in the tax burden, no eye will shine in this Chamber, and no hand will gladly rise. But it should also be said that the current government has seen this thing a little differently. EUR 500 of tax-free income is a very important measure. Who's smarter at spending than the same person who works? After all, our goal is for people to be able to work and make money. From the new year's salary of up to EUR 1200, the family where both spouses work is able to keep another EUR 1500, which represents a very good opportunity to make decisions. Yes, we have been taxing consumption over the years, and there have been such drafts during this government too that tax it. At the same time, we must not forget that the current government will reduce and significantly reduce people's own taxes on work. We are constantly told that reserves were collected during the Reform Party and we are now going to eat these reserves. In fact, it could still be said very clearly that by the end of 2015, the national reserves of Estonia were nearly 200 million euros smaller than in 2007, while the country's loan burden had increased by more than one billion euros. To sum up, Estonia's net assets had continuously decreased since the 2007 economic crisis. And then, for some reason, there's a really big fear that we can use reserves, and the biggest fear is that we can borrow. I think we should look a little more closely at the economy. Yes, for running costs, I would not take any loans, but for investments that will lead to economic recovery in the coming years, whether these investments will then be made in building fast connections with different points in Estonia or with other countries of the European Union. That's what we're gonna do. You shouldn't always be afraid! Most of the people in this hall definitely have car leases, but also other loans, and most of our children have home loans. Interestingly, when they borrow for 30 years, it seems very normal. We are trying to be papal papal in our own country, to stay at a level of 10 to 11 percent, if this level is much higher in the rest of Europe. They say the economy can heat up overnight. Friends, in the case of growth of 2 to 3%, we cannot talk about the heat of the economy; we need to talk about stagnation. A small rise is not what we hope and expect. I believe that the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber want to make sure that the Estonian economy grows with much greater momentum than today. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U182	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U183	I believe that we members of the Riigikogu should do everything we can to contribute to the success of entrepreneurs in business. I read with interest today the news that it is very bad that the Committee on Economic Affairs is familiar with business, or that the government has presented us with a bill for alcohol and advertising, which also limits the sale of alcohol on Tallink ships. The Commission decided to go see if it could be built between the walls or not. The Commission was unanimous on this, and in the Committee on Social Affairs Jaanus was the one who said very clearly that exemptions should certainly be granted at the airport and on board ships. At the open session of the Commission, entrepreneurs said that if such a law was adopted, this could mean that the Tallink Group would go under the flag of another country. How many millions would that be? In that case, you have to go and look at the place for yourself. Although I must admit that, in fact, we were invited by Eesti Gaas to see the first LNG vessel, which is the most economical ship, it is a flagship and it is an example for others. Since such a bill is on the table, I asked if it would be possible to see whether this item of the bill would affect this trade or not. In this case, the members of the Riigikogu must visit companies and institutions and examine the actual situation. The Committee on Social Affairs is in social affairs, while the Committee on Economic Affairs is in economic enterprises, and that is how we can make sensible decisions. The worst part is when we make decisions, but we don't really know what we're gonna decide. Before this debate, there was talk about car tax, tolls and everything else. Those who know this field best can give the best advice. I would also like to finally thank the Reform Party for bringing this issue into this Chamber and calling entrepreneurs who know what they are talking about as co-rapporteurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U184	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! It would be good if politicians knew what they were talking about, too, and it would be particularly good if the Chair of the Economic Commission knew that. But economics is the kind of thing that is very often spoken of in the same way as the elephant in that story: who is touching the tail, who is touching the leg, who is touching the limp, but everyone is telling a long story about it. Unfortunately, the elephant in the room is that the politicians who want to look at the economy themselves are scarce. In other words, those who speak the most about the economy, allow it to be managed the most and intervene most, always know the least about it. And that's our problem. Confession that an elephant is actually a wild animal, not a circus animal, and our task is not to make an elephant dance, but to let nature function, we cannot hear. All we're hearing is we're doing some kind of circus and taming, and we're the trainers. Unfortunately, the speakers of these stories have neither education nor logic. It is my destiny here to comment on the pubes that I have written down in other speeches, as another person spoke on behalf of the group. It was still a great experience to force yourself to listen to questions for hours on the subject that you see, after all, the tax system is poor, when the economy grows little, after all, the government is guilty, you see, you there, but why in your time and so on. Instead of saying that in fact, no economic analysis or economic forecast in Estonia considers the environment created by the government to be a growth brake. Everywhere they say we're pretty good. We're getting better and better, it's been said so far, but that's not why we're running the economy yet. We have a fair and competitive business environment. We are not Eastern Europe, as has been said here today. No, we're much better, much more honest, more transparent, more corruption-free. We have much easier business and should be protected. The main thing that should be required of the real government when it comes to economic intervention: do not spoil it! Our tax system has been repeatedly regarded as the most competitive in the world, of course. But then politicians come and say, oh, it's still dogma, that you see, we got the tax system changed. As if it were an end in itself to change the tax system. What for? If it's our few strengths, why do we have to touch it, why do we have to talk so stupidly about it that you can see, but there are more companies out there with progressive income tax? It's like being 'the same time' or 'the same place' logically taking the same thing as 'it'. These are very different things. So not only is the Ministry of Economics, but also the Ministry of Economics, in fact, the Ministry of Education and Research. The bottlenecks of our economy are, of course, innovation and labour, the wisdom of the workforce. In that sense, I agree with the sexes this time. Jaanus Marrandi gave a very wise and balanced speech; he spoke of real things. Of course, in the case of the labour force, this is the point of debate, whether we want to bring it in and how we control this introduction. In principle, however, this is a matter of quality, economic structure and economic added value. This is what entrepreneurs were talking about here. Can't say they're the only ones who know what the economy is, but they were talking about it. Sten Tamkivi undoubtedly represents one of the areas with the highest added value. However, entrepreneurs are a lobby. Today, unfortunately, the story remained too long for this... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U186	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U187	... that we have too high taxes on labour, and especially those paid by specialists. I'm sorry, it's not really true, even though we'd like them to be lower. We tried to bring it under social tax, but it has just been abolished, increased or raised by a percentage of social tax, rather than reduced, as was originally provided for in the law. High-wage earners do not have a high tax burden. The social tax ceiling is unnecessarily frail in a situation where progressive income tax applies. Income tax takes more back from high-wage earners in other countries. By reducing the tax burden, we will never be able to make our workforce cheaper than it is in India or Belarus. Let's still talk about quality, let's not talk so much about labour prices and the state's guilt in this matter. Our main stance should be that the state must define its functions and that it must create prerequisites for long-term growth. The business environment is quite good, the IT economy is quite attractive, in some respects certainly the best in the world, but the innovation problem is rather private. Of course, we need to make the public sector more effective, of course state reform is needed, but let us not look for the key to the economy in the public sector. No prognosis says that. After all, all economic forecasts say that we have a poor economy, that the Russian market has fallen, that Finland is falling and that demand in Europe is low. There must be a first reason for not intervening in the economy. The next step is to look for the right intervention to support innovation, a better workforce, a better economic structure and greater added value. The word 'investment' is, of course, always a fraud in the mouth of politicians. If the state is building, it is not an investment. It's a direct lie when we say we're gonna clean up the city hall and start the economy with it, or we're gonna make a five-track road, and we're gonna do the railroad. You know, it's a 100-150 economy, if not 250 years ago, it's the day before yesterday. The state has to build something all the time, but it could never create a quality shift in the economy by building something like this. There is innovation in construction, but the means by which the state is pushing the economy towards innovation is not construction. It is also not good for the labour market, it only increases domestic demand, the wage race and labour shortages, and it takes resources away from those sectors where labour shortages are actually groaning. We have to build, but construction is not the solution to our fundamental problems and, of course, it is not sharing either. It is still embarrassing when a representative of the right-wing party comes here and says that a person is the smartest and thus stimulates the most basic consumption. With a tax-free minimum, we will not solve any economic problems either, because a person is not necessarily the smartest. This measure may be able to meet needs, but it is not the way to improve the economic structure. So let me conclude: we will keep our mouths and fingers off the economy rather than lack of preparation, and we will recognise that it is up to us to create prerequisites for entrepreneurs to act rather than to try to manage them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U188	Thank you very much. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U189	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm sitting in this hall today and listening to these stories, and it seems to me that there are two parallel worlds: one is what the remote is talking about, and the other is reality, life. I wanted to get up many times and yell out that hello, Reform Party, pick up the phone! Understand now that during the ten years that you ruled, Estonian entrepreneurship was under a very heavy bureaucratic burden. During these ten years, we took Estonia to a place called stagnation, a triumph of mediocrity. These ten years were marked by a lack of bold ideas. Although the steering party was a Reform Party, there was no substantive reform that would have carried out the beautiful words that the President of the Reform Party and the other members of this party have said today. During these ten years, there was never any so-called aggressive public sales outside. We have several examples that very large foreign companies have not come here, have not made their investments here. A good example is Apple, who wanted to bring its servers to Estonia, but did not do so because our energy input was significantly higher than in neighbouring countries, there was not enough green energy and our country did not fight for this investment to come here. This is one of many examples when we have given up very good things because it is precisely the government that has acted in vain. Another example. We have basically lost the LNG terminal, which was supposed to come to Estonia, but it has not come so far because of screwy business. The support these companies are asking for is not financial support, but substantial support to help, to stand up for us, to fight with us. But it hasn't been done. Now I want to ask if in these five months the mindset has changed. Five months have passed, and now suddenly the Reform Party is talking about a completely different country as if they had never been in the government. There's one thing that worries me. Despite all these stories, we do not have a clear view of what Estonia we want is. We're talking about the economy, we're fetishing it, and we're saying that the economy has to grow. One comes up with one idea, the other with the other. But what does he have to grow for? What does an Estonian person want, or what kind of Estonia do we want? Do we just want Estonia for the economy, or do we have some bigger idea that we are working together for here? Let me give you an example. The same fight for the Estonian forest, where some people say that they would like to build an eco-state, but others again... Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U190	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U191	...see every tree in the euro. Now the question is how to make these two ideas work together in such a way that we maintain this ecological environment, in which we are in a good position compared to the whole of Europe, and, on the other hand, manage the forest so wisely that it deserves it at the highest level. But there are no such ideas. Instead, we're just going to argue whether one is right or the other is right. We're not looking for a middle ground. I'm coming to Rail Baltic. It's also a stone for the cabbage garden of the current government. Here today, Sten Tamkivi spoke proudly that we should think about new technology and new technological solutions. But what is going on with Rail Baltic is an obvious example that we are thinking about yesterday's technological solutions. We are thinking about how we can quickly dig up Estonia, build a huge earthbank in the middle of Estonia and thus make the Estonian economy, indeed, run for the short term, but we do not have a long-term view. Let's look at public investment. Estonia is very good at investing in concrete. Compared to Finland, our investments in concrete and cars are about the same level, but Estonia invests five times less in R &amp; D. I'm coming back to Rail Baltic. If we're talking about technological innovations and exciting things, why don't we talk about Hyperloop? Why are we not skipping any steps and why are we not making this Estonia an exciting, technologically developed country? The Free Party is talking about the person who can handle it and Estonia who can handle it. Let's look at people graduating from our universities. One of their main objectives is to be employed as a public office. The state pie, too, has unfortunately expanded precisely during the rule of the Reform Party, and now it continues to expand. Therefore, if we do not quickly think about how to create conditions so that people start thinking on their own, but rather grow the so-called helplessness syndrome that we have learned in Estonia, then nothing will change here and certainly nothing will change in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U192	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U193	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to be very brief about the thought that sounded quite several times today, as if before there were very progressive and innovative people in power, but there are no people in the current government coalition who would think about the future. I recall that I have been repeating here all along in these two years that we must be as innovative as possible, we must first adopt the most recent solutions in the world, only then, as a country and a nation, we will be competitive. I join Artur Talvik's idea that we could really think a few more steps forward, not just to deal with the fire. We have to be proactive and proactive. I agree in the same way with Andres Herkel, who said that our people have somehow lacked the courage to do new things. Dear friends, I don't know how you feel, but even if we look in the mirror here, can we really say that we have the courage to take risks? I think it could be a lot more for us here. I want to talk about innovation. Hyperloop was already mentioned here. Do we have to discuss today how to get a couple of electronic road signs on one of our roads? Is this the level we want to reach, or could we really do it and make the world's first air-moving car traffic code? It's a bit of a euphemism, isn't it, but an example of the direction and way of thinking that I think we might have more. I have also been talking all along about the fact that the development of broadband Internet contributes to teleworking, the creation of regional jobs and the growth of people's well-being. That's what Sten Tamkivi noted here today. Good people, as president of the e-Estonia Support Group, I invite you all to join this group. Please come and contribute, together let's think about how to make this revolution, how to do things much more forcefully and violently than we have done so far! Tomorrow at one o'clock, the e-Estonia Support Group will have a meeting with Siim Sikkut from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Please come in! I beg you: less talk, more action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U194	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U195	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber! One thing amazes me: People have raced together, but at some point either the card reader or the driver will be forgotten. If you look at who has been in the government, you will have a laugh when it is claimed that the Reform Party alone has ruled Estonia. It would, of course, have been a great honour and pride. I dare stick to my opinion that coalition governments are certainly, by their very nature, balancing society. This can be seen in the example of Tallinn, what happens if it is not balanced at all. A good colleague, Erki Savisaar, has already left the hall. He has read examples here that the investments of the current government are very important and add value. Let's just take this conference center. We all actually know that the private sector would be willing to build this conference centre cheaper, it would be cheaper even if it had some support. In total, the state would actually win, and we should not interfere absolutely. When I listened to the presentations of honourable entrepreneurs, I was once again able to confirm the important value of a balanced budget. It is actually embarrassing to listen to the government project decisions to 2020-2021, which means that in the coming years the budget will be clearly brought to a great disadvantage, and future governments will have to deal with it. Perhaps this mandate, which we have been given for four years, and the same electoral promises that we have made, will certainly not coincide with the decisions that the government is planning to make. Another important issue that came up here was our e-governance. When I traveled around the world as mayor and minister, our experiences as an e-state were always asked, studied and drilled, which was considered very important. It's completely insane to ruin it at first glance with small but pointless nuances. This is about changing our e-election system. The weakest part of this is, in fact, that often not much is needed to change your image and to reduce your credibility. As a result, I do not believe that such things should be manipulated and played; there is no practical need for this. But I want to stress once again that I think that we politicians, whoever is here in the Riigikogu today, have a number of budgeted ideas on how money could be spent. I am convinced that there should be certain sacred things in the Republic of Estonia. They are also needed so that all future political forces that will ever rule can, to some extent, carry out their promises. I mean, very clearly, the principle of budgetary balance should be maintained. It should not be that the next government, whatever it is, is left with the joy of not doing it, but with the joy of cutting it. This joy of cutting is something we are beginning to see very quickly from what the current government is proposing. In my opinion, this voice of entrepreneurs, which today sounded very balanced and malbena, but wishing for more innovation and openness, perhaps also means more willingness to risk, that it is not sensible for this business environment that we have to be disrupted by short-term political desires to receive an additional mandate from people. But I can assure you that there will never be an additional mandate for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-09_U196	The session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
